

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2265
2265
wxl 1"682 - 2010 fkdjeïn¾ ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'11'26
No. 1,682 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 26, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2268
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 2274
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd December, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th
November, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2266
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2267
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2268
Posts – Vacant
THE  GOVERNMENT OFFICERS’  BENEFIT
ASSOCIATION
Posts of Secretary and Accountant
APPLICA TIONS are invited for the Post of "Secretary and
Accountant" of this Association from Officers (Male or Female)
those who have following qualifications.
(i) Supra or Class I officers, in Service of the Public
Management Assistant Service.
(ii) Applicant should be a permanent resident within 30 miles
from Colombo.
(iii) Applicant should be below 53 years of age on 01.01.2011.
(iv) Applicant should have minimum 15 years Government
Service experience.
(v) Applicant should be able to work in Sinhala and English
languages.
(vi) Preference will be given to applicant who are members of
the Association and to those who process Accounting and
Administration qualifications, Computer knowledge and
Experience and knowledge in Tamil Language.
Salary scale applicable to this post is as follows :
Consolidated salary and additional allowance of 50% of same.
The selected candidate will be seconded for service in the Association
for a period of 02 years. He will be required to furnish security in
sum of Rs. 10,000 through a Guarantee Bond of the Insurance
Corporation.
Applications in the Applicants own handwriting giving full details
should be sent through the Head of Department of reach the
undersigned on or before 24.12.2010 under Registered Cover.
W. L. T. S
UMATHIRATHNA,
President,
Government Officers' Benefit Association.
No. 65/1,
Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha,
Colombo 02,
26th November, 2010.
11–679
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Recruitment for the Posts of Typist (Sinhala/Tamil) in the
Law Report Translation (Sinhala/Tamil) Unit
APPLICATIONS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka with requisite
qualifications mentioned in this notification for the posts of Typist
(Sinhala/Tamil) in the Law Reports Translation (Sinhala/Tamil) Unit
of the Ministry of Justice.
02. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should pass the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six subjects
in not more than two sittings with credit passes in four
subjects including Language/Literature and Mathematics.
(Should have passed in not less than five subjects in one
sitting) ;
(ii) Should pass the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination at least in one
subject (excluding the General Common Test).
03. Professional Qualifications. – Should possess a credit pass
for the subject of Typing at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
04. Experience.– Ability to type Sinhala/Tamil at a speed of 20
words per minute.
05. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 30 years at the closing date applications. (The maximum age
limit will not apply to persons already in Public Service).
06. Salary Scale .– MN-1-2006A - Rs. 13,120 - 10 x 145 -
11 x 170 - 10 x 240 - 10 x 320 - Rs. 22,040 per month.
07. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Proficiency Test .– Sinhala/Tamil Typing (typing in 20
minutes at a minimum speed of 20 words per minute).
(ii) Applicants who pass the proficiency test will be called
for the structural interview depending on the number of
existing vacancies at the ratio of 1:2. Applicants who
pass the structural interview will be recruited for the
existing vacancies on merit order.
Terms of Recruitment :
(i) This post is permanent. It is pensionable. Contributions
should be made to the Widows', Widowers' and Orphans"
Pension Scheme.
(ii) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
the provisions of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and any rules and
regulations already made or may hereafter be made to
give effect to the language policy of the Government.
They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Departmental
Orders and any other orders already issued or may be
issue by the Government from time to time. Sections 10
to 12 of the Chapter II of the Establishment Code will
apply.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2269
(iii) Selected candidates should be in good mental and physical
condition in order to serve in any area of the island and
should pass the Government Medical Examination.
(iv) Should pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within Three
(03) years from the date of appointment.
(v) He/She will be subject to a probation period of Three
(03) years from the date of appointment.
(vi) Every officer should obtain proficiency in Second
Language in addition to the recruited official language
within Five (05) years from appointment. Sinhala
Language or Tamil Language will be considered as the
Second Language as applicable to the first language of the
relevant officer (Proficiency level to be obtained as per
P. A. Circular 07/2007 is Segment II)
Method of application :
(i) Applications prepared according to the specimen
application form mentioned in this notice using both sides
of a A4 size paper should be sent to the Secretary,
Ministry of Justice, Superior Courts Complex, Colombo
12 on or before 10.12.2010 by registered post.
(ii) Applicants who are already in Public Servi ce/Provincial
Public Service should send their applications by Head of
Department/Institution. The words "Application for the
post of Typist (Sinhala/Tamil) in the Law Report
Translation (Sinhala/Tamil) Unit - 2010" should be
mentioned in the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application.
(iii) Examination fee.– Every candidate should pay a sum of
Rs. 250 as examination fees to be credited to the Account
No. 176-1001-7-902-5-180 Mid City Branch of the
People's Bank, in favour of the Secretary, Ministry of
Justice. The relevant receipt should be attached to the
application. Examination fee will not be refunded.
(iv) Applications which are incomplete, applications
submitted without basic qualifications and applications
received after the due date will be rejected and receipt or
rejection of applications will not be informed.
(v) If any false statement has been made in the application
by the applicant, he/she will be disqualified before
appointment and will be liable for dismissal from service
if disclosed after appointment.
In respect of any matter not mentioned here the deciding authority
will be the Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
S
UHADA K. GAMALATH,
Secretary.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
APPLICA TION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF TYPIST (SINHALA/
TAMIL) IN THE LAW REPORT TRANSLATION (SINHALA/TAMIL) UNIT
For office use only
01. Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
03. Full name of the applicant (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
04. Full name of the applicant (in English block capitals) :–––––.
05. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
06. Permanent residing District :–––––––––––.
07. Telephone No. :
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
10. Age as at 10.12.2010 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
11. Sex :–––––––––––.
12. Nationality :–––––––––––.
13. Marital Status :–––––––––––.
14. Whether you apply for the post of (Sinhala/Tamil) typist
Sinhala
Tamil
15. Educational qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
G . C. E. (A/L) examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index Number :–––––––––––.
Subject Pass
16. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2270
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing
the professional qualifications given below :
(a) Electronics Engineering Branch
Electronics Engineering Officers – Male (Regular)
* BSc Degree in Electronics and Telecommunication
Engineering or NDT in Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineering or HNDE  (Electronics
Stream) or Diploma in Technology (Electronics and
Telecommunication Engineering) from Open University
of Sri Lanka or NDES (Electronics/Telecommunication
Stream) or equivalent qualification.
Network Administrators/Software Developers - Male
(Regular)
* A four (04) year BSc Degree in IT/Computer Science/
Computer Engineering with a minimum of one year
working experience or a three (03) year BSc Degree in
Computer Science/computer Science as a subject with a
minimum of two years working experience or a three
(03) year IT related BSc Degree/BSc Degree with
Computer Science as a subject or Higher National
Diploma or equivalent from a Government recognized
Institution and a minimum of one year working experience
or NIBM Diploma or equivalent qualification and a
minimum of two years working experience in network
management for Network Administrators/and a minimum
of two years working experience with one year working
experience in the development of application software
for Software Developers.
* All BSc qualifications should be from Universities
recognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri
Lanka.
* Experience is required in Network Management for
Network Administrators and development of application
software using ASP.NET and C#.NET for Software
Developers.
* Preference will be given to those with CCNA, MCSE,
an in depth knowledge of Microsoft/Linux, Server,
experience in MS Exchange Server for Network
Administrators and Professional qualifications such as
MCAD, etc. and experience in NET Framework,
ASP.NET/C#/Visual Studio and knowledge in MS SQL
Server 2005 or 2008 for Software Developers.
* All candidates are required to sit for a written and a
practical test.
(b) Logistics Branch
Mess Managers - Male (Regular)
* Diploma in Hotel Management or completion of all 4 levels
of fulltime basic courses in hospitality industry training,
from a recognized local/foreign institute with minimum of
2 years experience in Star Class Hotels in Food and
Beverages Departments in executive capacity.
17. Date on which the Examination fee was paid (attach the receipt) :
18. I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and the relevant receipt for
the payment of examination fees has been attached herewith. I
am also aware that I am liable to be disqualified before selection
and to be dismissed after appointment if this declaration is
proved to be incorrect.
––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Recommendation of the Head of the Department if the applicant
is in the Public Service  :
PART "B"
R
ECOMMENDATION OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I hereby declare that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............. is
serving as a ...................... in the Department/Ministry/Provincial
Council and the Examination fee of Rs. 250 has been paid to the
Mid City Branch of the People's Bank to be credited to the Account
Number mentioned in the application and the particulars mentioned
above are true and his/her work, attendance, conduct are satisfactory.
He/She can be/cannot be released from the service, if he/she has
been selected.
–––––––––––––,
Signature and the official seal of the
Head of the Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–752
SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :
(a)  Electronics Engineering  Branch,
(b) Logistics Branch
(c) Air Field Construction  Branch

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2271
(c) Air Field Construction Branch
Civil Engineering Officer - Male (Rugular) :
* BSc in Civil Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
* NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil Engineering or equivalent
qualifications.
Mechanical Engineering Officer - Male (Rugular) :
* BSc in Mechanical Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
* NDT/NDES/HNDE in Mechanical Engineering or
equivalent qualifications.
Electrical Engineering Officer - Male (Rugular) :
* BSc in Electrical Engineering or equivalent qualifications.
* NDT/NDES/HNDE in Electrical Engineering or equivalent
qualifications.
Architect - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer) :
* Architect with Charted qualification.
* BSc (BE) with MSc in Architecture or B/Arch conducted
by the University of Moratuwa.
Quantity Surveyor -  Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer) :
* BSc in quantity surveying cnducted by the University
of Moratuwa or Graduate member of the Institute of
Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka or Technical member
of the Institute of Quantity Surveyor in Sri Lanka and
one year post qualification experience in the relevant
field.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : Not more than 30 years as at 31st
December, 2010.
(e) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
Female - 5' 4" and above
(f) Chest : Minimum 32'' (Male)
(g) Vision Colour Standard  : CP2
(h) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With or
without spectacles).
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height, provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be Commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of the Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and Orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations pubilshed in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the President’s pleasure".
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act,
may be allowed by the President to do so. The Provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para. 15( b)(16).
15.(a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :
Pilot Officer - Rs. 211,800 p. a.
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
  p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
  p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700
  p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060 - 18 x 12,600 - Rs. 667,860
  p. a.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2272
(b) Service Allowances :-
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,250 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
(5) Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month  (Rs. 100
will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 10,609.75 per month (if
permitted to live out).
(10)  Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
(12) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(13) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(14) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(15) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(16) Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,850 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to "Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 03rd December,
2010 under registered cover. The envelope enclosing
the application should be marked" Application for
Commission in the …………… Branch". Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance
with the requirements of this notification and not in
registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should
forward their applications through their Heads of
Department/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments
and should bear a certificate to the effect that the
candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies
of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificate of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant.
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc.
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
* Note.– Originals of these certificates should be produced
only if and when the applicant is called for the
interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The
final selection will then be made after an interview
appointed by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid in this
respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of
Persons.
(d) candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2273
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment
will not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. GOONETILEKE,
Airchief Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE IN THE ………………
BRANCH
01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate).
02. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––.
03. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
04. Branch applied :–––––––––––.
05. Post applied :–––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
07. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
08. Postal address :–––––––––––.
09. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
10. Height :–––––' ––––––".
11. District :–––––––––––.
12. Electorate :–––––––––––.
13. GS Division :–––––––––––.
14. Telephone number :–––––––––––.
15. Civil status :–––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Type of Year of Subjects passed
School/ examination examination (including
University grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
  Qualifications
Other
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University :
(if applicable).
Name and address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment From            To
18. Particulars of parents :–
Full Place of birth Occupation Present
Name address
Father
Mother
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
20. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside
organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :–––––––––.
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :–––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :
–––––––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials :–
Name Designation Postal Address
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–757

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2274
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO
CLASS III OF THE  SRI  LANKA  ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE – 2010
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the
posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
1. In this notice “Secretary” means the “Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs”, “Service” means
the “Sri Lanka Administrative Service”.
2. Written Examination.– The Examination will consist of the following question papers.
(i) General Intelligence
(ii) Essay and Precis
(iii) General Knowledge
(iv) Aptitude for Management
Date of Examination. – This examination will be held in the towns of Colombo (Town No. 01) and Jaffna (Town No. 02) in
March 2011. The town applied initially shall not be allowed to change later on. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or cancel this
examination subject to instructions given by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
Oral Test.– The Secretary will decide the date for interview for the candidates who sat for all the papers in the written
examination and obtained a higher aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers as sufficient.
3. Number of persons to be appointed and effective date of appointment will be determined as per the orders of the Public
Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
4. Conditions of Service.– A selected candidate will be appointed to Class III of the service on the general conditions governing
appointments in the Pubilc Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the Minute of the Service dated 28th October, 200 5,
(published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 of 14th November, 2005) and
subject to any amendments made or to be made hereafter to the Minute.
4.1 Appointments of candidates who fail to report for duty on the due date and/or refuse or evade to take up duties in a
post or in an area they are appointed to, are liable to be cancelled.
5. Structure and salary scale per month  :
Special Grade - Rs. 42,390 - 12 x 1,310 - Rs. 58,110.
Class I - Rs. 36,755 - 17 x 1,050 - Rs. 53,555.
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8 x 790 - Rs. 35,705.
Class III - Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - Rs. 29,385.
(Whilst the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03 years from the date of appointment and 2nd Efficiency
Bar Examination within 06 years from the date of appointment, proficiency of the second official language should be achieved within 05
years from the date of appointment in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.)
The appointments through this examination will be made to the Class III of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
6. Health and Character.– A candidate must satisfy the Secretary that he is duly qualified in respect of health and that he has
an excellent moral character. He must possess good eye sight and be physically fit for service in any part of the island. Selected candidates
will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.
7. Eligibility.– A candidate appearing for this must :–
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Have obtained a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
(a) The effective date of the certificate of degree should be 27.12.2010 or a date prior to that.
(iii) Not have reached 28 years of age as at 27.12.2010 ;
(iv) Have a sound moral character and be physically fit ;
(v) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be permitted to sit this examination.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2275
Note :–
(i) No person is allowed to sit the competitive examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka Administrative Service for more
than two sittings.
(ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination should have been completed in every aspect by 27.12.2010.
8. Examination fee.– The fee is Rs. 1,000. It should be paid before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13. The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat
should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application form. This fee is nonrefundable. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt
with the candidate.
9. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A4) using both sides. It should be specially noted that the application
forms should be prepared that cages 1.0 to 3.11 appear on the first side of the paper and cages 4.0 to 8.0 appear in the
other side of the paper. Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that are not completed in every aspect,
shall be rejected without notice. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with candidate.) It is the
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies with the
specimen given in the examination notice as otherwise the application may be rejected.
(b) The application should be in the language medium in which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) The completed application form for the examination should be sent by registered post to reach the Commissioner-
General of Examinations. (Organization and Foreign Examination Branch) Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or before 27.12.2010.
The words “Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service – 2010” should be
clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Any application received after the
closing date will not be accepted. It is essential to mention the name of examination in English Language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil media.
(d) Candidate’s signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice
of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces, an
Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in Public Service whose
annual initial salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(e) Any application, which is not complete in every aspect, is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application has
been lost or delayed in post will be considered.
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. A notice will be published in the newspapers by the Department of
Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e. a certified photocopy of the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of
registration and in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission
cards should be sent.
10. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination must produce his admission card on which his signature has
been attested to the supervisor of the examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be
permitted to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his signature
attested in advance and hand over the admission card to the supervisor on the first day he presents himself for the
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published at the begining of Gazette. Candidates are
subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on conducting the examination
and they are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by him/her for breach of these rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2276
11. Identity of Candidates. – A candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted :-
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
12. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge t hat they are
false, or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers.
14. Scheme of Examination – Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English. The language medium of examination indicated initially shall
not be allowed to change subsequently ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying degree examination or in an
offiicial language ;
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying degree examination in more than one language, should sit the
examination in the language in which he passed the majority of subjects at such examination or in an official language ;
(d) Candidate with a special degree who has passed the principal subject in one language and the subsidiary subject in
another language should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the principal subject or in an official
language.
Note :
(i) The term “qualifying degree” in (b) and (c) above refers to the degree qualifications referred to in Paragraph 7 (ii).
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in the application.
15. Method of Selection.– A written examination in the following subjects :
(i) General Intelligence - Duration : 1 hour - 100 marks
(ii) Essay and Precis - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iii) General Knowledge - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
(iv) Aptitude for Management - Duration : 2 hours - 100 marks
Candidates should sit all the question papers.
Oral Test (25 marks).
Candidates who have sat all the question papers of the written exam and qualified themselves shall be called for the oral test.
Only the candidates who have scored 40% of marks or above for each of the papers and scored and aggregate of marks above the le vel
determined as sufficient by the Public Service Commission/Cabinet of Ministers according to the number of vacancies existing, s hall be
called for the interview. If there are a sufficient number of candidates who possess above qualifications, a number equivalent to twice the
number of vacancies shall be called for the oral test. (The scheme of allocating marks shall be approved by the Appointing Auth ority/
Public Service Commission at the early stage of recruitment).
16. The selection for appointment will be made in order of merit from among those who have sat the written examination,
presented themselves for the interview and scored the highest aggregate of marks. (Facing the interview should not necessarily mean that
he or she has fulfilled requisite qualifications to receive an appointment.)
17. Syllabus :
(i) General Intelligence (Duration 1 hour - 100 marks) :
To assess the candidate’s capacity for comprehension, qualification and perception of time space relations by measuring
the candidate’s inferences and responses to problems presented in verbal, numerical and spatial contexts. (The question
paper will consist of multiple choice questions and questions for short answers)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2277
(ii) Essay and Precis (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
To test the candidate’s capacity for conceptualization, critical reasoning and his judgmental abilities in the development,
organization and presentation of ideas and information on a topic/theme chosen by the candidate from a given set of
topics/themes and the ability to comprehend a fairly complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum and express
the salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately in the candidate’s own words.
(iii) General Knoweldge (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
To test the candidate’s awareness and understanding of the social, cultural, educational, scientific, political, economic
and any other relevant factors operating at the National, Regional and Global environment or organizations as well as
of our society. (The question paper will consist of multiple choice questions and questions for short answers)
(iv) Aptitude for Management (Duration 2 hours - 100 marks) :
This paper is designed to assess the candidate's aptitude for sound management, as reflected in the candidate’s
responses to problems and situations requiring diagnosis and decision making, dealing with interpersonal relations,
communicating and developing policy and strategy and managing self. (The question paper will consist of multiple
choice questions and questions for short answers)
On the order of the Cabinet of Ministers.
D. D
ISANAYAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
12th November, 2010.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF THE
SRI  LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE – 2010
1.0 Medium 2.0 Town
Language medium of examination The town in which the candidate intends to sit the exam
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3 T own No.
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(as per para 2 of Gazette notification)
(It will not be allowed to change the town indicated subsequently)
3.0 Personal Information :
3.1 Name with initials :––––––––––. Eg :– SILV A, A. B.
(In English Block Capitals)
3.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
3.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
3.4 Permanent Address (admission card will be posted to this address) :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
3.5 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2278
3.6 Sex :
(Male  -  0,  Female  - 1) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.7 Civil Status :
(Unmarried  - 1,  Married  - 2) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.8 Ethnic group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,
Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.9 National Identity Card No. :
3.10 Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
3.11 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 (i) State the years in which you sat any previous examinations for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Administrative Service :
(a) ––––––––––––––
(b) ––––––––––––––
(c) ––––––––––––––
5.0 (i) Effective date of the Degree :–––––––––.
(Please read Para 7(ii) of the notification carefully to see whether you are qualified in this respect)
(ii) University/Institute :–––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number :–––––––––.
(iv) Internal/External :–––––––––.
(v) Degree :–––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :–––––––––.
(vii) Class :–––––––––.
(viii) Upper/Lower :–––––––––.
(ix) Index Number :–––––––––.
(x) Language medium of Examination :–––––––––.
6.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
7.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given in this form is true to the best of my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the receipt No. ..........
dated ................ being the payment of the examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing the examinatio n and any
decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is found that I am ineligible according
to the regulations of this examination. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner-General of
Examinations as conducting of the exam.
––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––. Signature of Applicant.
8.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 9(d) of the Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certify that ....................... (Full name) who submits this application is known to me personally, that he/she h as paid the
prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence on ......... ...........
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer Attesting the Signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
11–775

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2279
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND  RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Animal Production and Health
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POSTS  OF  RESEARCH
ASSISTANT  IN  CLASS  IIB  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE – 2010
APPLICATIONS are being invited by the Director General of the
Animal Production and Health for the Sri Lanka Technological Service
Competitive Examination to recruit for the Posts of Research
Assistant in Class IIB of the Department of Animal Production and
Health.
02. Examination.– The examination will be held in December,
2010 in Kandy by the Director General of Animal Production and
Health. The right to postpone or cancel the examination shall be with
the Director General.
03. Condition of the Service. – Recruitment, will be made for
Class IIB of the Research Assistant's Service subject to the general
conditions of the Public Service and the following conditions governing
the appointments of the Public Service.
(i) The selected officers is subject to the conditions of serving
any part of the Island.
(ii) The officer, who are recruited under the Open Competitive
Examination will be on probation for a period of 3 years. If
a Public Officer already confirmed in a permanent post in
the Public Service is appointed. He will be kept under the
supervision for a period of one year. The officers who are
appointed by the Open Competitive Examination should
pass the relevant Ist Efficiency Bar Examination before
confirm in the post.
(iii) All the officers who have recruited for the public service
should obtain the proficiency in an official language in
addition to the official language medium in which they
gained qualifications to enter the Public Service, with in 05
years from the date of appointment.
(iv) The selected officer is subject to the orders of the Public
Service Commission provisions of the Establishments
Code, financial regulations and conditions and regulations
issued by the Government from time to time and the
regulations of the Ministry and Department.
04. Salary Scale.– MN-3-2006A- Research Assistants' Service
Class IIB - Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240 - 11 x 320 - 20 x 360 -
Rs. 27,885. (Monthly as per Public Administration Circular 07/
2008) The salary scale for this grade is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180 - 6 x 240
- Rs. 17,165. The officers in this Grade IIB should pass the 1st
Efficiency Bar Examination before the 3rd increment.
05. Age Limit :
(a) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years at the closing date of the application. This maximum
age limit does not apply for the officers who are already in
the Public Service ;
(b) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(c) Should be physically fit.
06. Educational Qualification :
Should have obtained the Diploma in Animal Husbandry from
Sri Lanka college of Animal Husbandry ;
and
G . C. E. (A/L) in three subjects with two subjects should be
from Chemistry, Agriculture and Biology and pass the
examination in one and the same sitting ;
and
Should have passed G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) examination in
not more than two sittings in 06 subjects with credit passes
for Language or Literature/Arithmetic/Mathematics ;
or
Pass in any other examination equalant to it.
Note.– If the person who have obtained a Diploma from
the Open University of Sri Lanka have passed the
foundation course relevant to that course they can be
released from requirement of completing G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level).
07. Method of Recruitment.– The candidates who have fulfilled
the basic qualifications should sit for the competitive examination
conducted by the Department of Animal Production and Health.
The candidates who have scored 40% or more marks for each
paper prescribed for the general competitive examination will be
called for a viva voce on merit basis. No marks will be given for the
interview and recruitment will be made on the basis of the order of
the aggregate obtained at the examination by the candidates who
have fulfilled the necessary qualifications.
08. Examination :
(i) Medium of examination will be in Sinhala/Tamil and English.
(ii) Candidate can select the medium of the examination.
(iii) Permission will not be given to change the medium applied
at the Examination.
(iv) The examination fee is Rs. 300. The money order drawn
in favour of the Director General, Animal Production and
Health encashable at the post office.
Peradeniya should be affixed to the relevant cage in the
application.
(v) Subjects - The examination will be comprised with two
question papers.
(i) Intelligence Test
(ii) Question paper in Technology.
Syllabus :
(a) Intelligence Test - time 01 hour - 100 marks
This question paper is designed to examine the logical
reasoning analytical thinking and the ability to take
decisions.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2280
(b) Question paper in Technology - time 01 hour - 100 marks.
This includes the subjects given below :
(i) Identification and maintenance of laboratory equipment.
(ii) The tests used for diagnosis
Pathology
Parasitology
Microbiology
Serology
Nutrition
(iii) The tests used for Animal Husbandry
Physical tests
Chemical tests
Sensitive tests
(iv) Cleanliness of the Laboratory, sterilization
(v) Obtaining samples storing and transport.
09. Method of application.– The application should be prepared
in accordance with the specimen application form attached to this
notification. Application should be prepared on paper 8 1/2 x 12(A4)
using both sides of it.
The application should be sent under registered cover to reach
the Director General. Department of Animal Production and Health,
P. O. Box 13, Getambe, Peradeniya on or before 30.11.2010. The
words “Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Post of
Reserch Assistant” should be written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope clearly. The applications received after the closing date
will be rejected.
Note.– The candidates who are in the Public Service should
forward their application through the Head of the
Department/Institute.
(i) Incomplete applications will be rejected. No allegation
that an application has been delayed or lost in the post
will be considered.
(ii) Application will not be acknowledged. If admission are
not received within four days prior to the date of the
examination, the candidates are requested to inform the
Director General, Department of Animal production
Health immediately witht he following particulars.
(i) Full name of the applicant,
(ii) Address,
(iii) Date of posting, registered No. and Post Office.
10. The Photostat copies of the following should be attached to
the application :
(i) Certificate of birth,
(ii) Educational certificates,
(iii) Diploma certificate in Animal husbandry.
Identity of the candidate.– Every candidate is required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. The following documents are accepted for the purpose.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport (issued 3 years prior to the date of the
examination).
Submission of false information.– If it reveals that a candidate has
not gained the required qualifications to sit for the examination his/
her candidature can be cancelled before or during the examination or
after the examination or at any stage, if it appears that a candidate
has submitted false information knowingly he/she will be dismissed
from service.
The candidates should draw their attention and adhere to the
general conditions pertaining to the appointment to the Public Service
stipulated at the commencement of Part I(IIA) of this Gazette
notification and rules and regulations for the candidates.
11. The Director General, Department of Animal Production and
Health reserves himself the right to take a decision with regard to a
problem arisen about the number to be recruited and that will be the
final decision.
Dr. A. D. N. C
HANDRASIRI,
Director General (C. D.),
Department of Animal Production and
Health.
Department of Animal Production and Health,
Peradeniya,
25th November, 2010.
M
INISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
APPLICATION FOR THE POSTS OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT IN CLASS II OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE – 2010
Medium selected
(Write the relevant number in the cage) (For office use only)
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(Example : SILV A, B. A.)
1.2 N. I. C. No. :
02. Address :
Private Address :––––––––––.
2.1 Official Address :––––––––––.
2.2 The Address to which the admission card to be sent
:––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'11'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.11.2010
2281
03. 3.1 Sex : (Mark the relevant cage)
Female
Male
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years : Months : Days :
3.4 Civil Status : (Mark the relevant cage)
Married
Single
04. Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/L) :
Year :––––––––––. Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.2 G . C. E. (A/L) :
Year :––––––––––. Month :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Index No.
4.3 (a) The institute from where the Diploma was obtained
:––––––––––.
(b) The year in which the Diploma was obtained :––––.
05. The present occupation and the previous posts held :
Post Institute From To
06. The name of the post office to which the examination fees had
been paid :––––––––––.
No. of the Money order :––––––––––.
The examination fee Rs. 300. It can be paid to any post office
in the island in favour of the Director General,
Animal Production and Health. Affix the receipt here.
07. I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any of
the information furnished by me is found to be false or incorrect,
I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to be dismissed
without any compensation if such detection is made after
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Relevant only for the officers who are holding permanent posts
in the public service at present.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that the Applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................ is
serving in this Department as a ..................... and foregoing particulars
were checked by me and found to be correct. He/She could/couldnot
be released from the present post held by him/her if selected for the
above post.
–––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department.
Rubber stamp should be used.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
11–633
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.