

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'13
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.05.2019
1A
wxl 2123$3 - 2019 uehs ui 13 jeks i÷od - 2019'05'13
No. 2123/3 - MONDAY  MAY 13,  2019
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - G   29759— 382   (05/2019)
L.D-B 11/1979 (iii)
THE   PREVENTION   OF   TERRORISM   (TEMPORARY   PROVISIONS)   ACT,   No.   48   OF   1979
REGULA TIONS made by the President under Section 27 of the Prevention of Terrorism (Temporary Provisions)
Act,  No. 48 of 1979 read with the provisions of the Constitution.
MAITHRIPALA S IRISENA,
President.
Colombo,
May 13,  2019.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Prevention of Terrorism (Proscription of Extremist Organizations)
Regulations No. 1 of 2019.
2. In furtherance of the efforts of the Government of Sri Lanka made in good faith for the purpose of ensuring the
continuance of peace within the country and in the interest of national security, public order, and the rule of law, the
organizations as specified in the Schedule hereto are hereby proscribed.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'13
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.05.2019
2A
3. No person shall, within or outside Sri Lanka-
(a) be a member or cadre of;
(b) provide leadership to;
(c) wear, display, hoist or possess the uniform, dress, symbol, emblem, or flag of;
(d) summon, convene, conduct or take part in a meeting of;
(e) obtain membership or join;
(f) harbour, conceal, assist a member, cadre or any other associate of;
(g) promote, encourage, support, advice, assist, act on behalf of;
(h) organize or take part in any activity or event of;
(i) donate or contribute money or material to;
(j) procure, store, transport, possess or distribute material for or of;
(k) espouse the cause of or represent;
(l) engage in any transaction with; or
(m) cause the dissemination of information on behalf of,
any organization specified in the Schedule hereto or any other organization representing or acting on behalf of
such organization or is connected with or concerned in such organization or which is reasonably suspected of being
connected with or concerned in any of the activities specified above.
4. Any person who acts in contravention of regulation 3 of these regulations, commits an offence, and shall on
conviction by the High Court for the Western Province  established under Article 154P of the Constitution holden in
Colombo, be sentenced to a term of imprisonment not exceeding twenty years.
5. Any person who conspires to commit or attempts, abets or engages in any conduct in preparation to commit an
offence in contravention of regulation 3 of these regulations, commits an offence, and shall upon conviction by the High
Court for the Western Province established under Article 154P of the Constitution holden in Colombo, be sentenced to a
term of imprisonment not exceeding ten years.
6. Where an offence under these regulations is committed by a body of persons, then, in addition to the persons
directly responsible for the committing of the offence
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every director and the principal executive officer of such
body corporate;
(b) if that body of persons is a partnership, every partner and the principal executive officer of such
partnership; and
(c) if that body of persons is a body unincorporated other than a firm, the leader of such body of persons,
group or organization and every officer of that body of persons responsible for the management and
control of such body, group or organization,
shall, in addition to such body of persons, be deemed to be guilty of such offence.
7. (1) Where the President is satisfied, after such inquiry as he thinks fit, that any person has custody of any
moneys, securities or credits which are being used or are intended to be used, for the purposes of the proscribed
organizations specified to in the Schedule hereto,the President may, by order in writing declare that such moneys, securities
or credits as are in the custody of any such person, or any moneys, securities or credits which may come into his custody
after the making of such order and any other movable  or immovable property belonging to such organization, shall be
forfeited to the State.
(2) The order made by the President under paragraph (1) shall be final and conclusive and shall not be called in
question in any court by way of writ or otherwise.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'13
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.05.2019
3A
8. For the avoidance of doubts, it is hereby declared that the provisions of these regulations shall not in any way
affect the right of an international organization which the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the
subject of Defence may from time to time specify by order in writing, and which has entered into an agreement with the
Government of Sri Lanka, to engage in any activity connected with the rendering of humanitarian assistance.
[Regulation 2]
SCHEDULE
1. National Thowheed Jama’ath (NTJ)
2. Jama’athe Milla’athe Ibrahim (JMI)
3. Willayath As Seylani
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.