

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2379$02 - 2024 wfma%,a ui 08 jeks i÷od - 2024.04.08
No. 2379/02  -  moNday,   april   08, 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
                                                                                                             
l.d.B. 4/2007(ii)
THE  AYURVEDA  ACT, No. 31 OF 1961
rEGUlaTioNS made by the minister of Health under Section 82 of the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 read with Sections 
7 (g) 10, 77 and part Vi of the aforesaid act.
 dr. Ramesh PathiRana,
 minister of Health.
03.04.2024,
Colombo.                     
rEGUlaTioNS
1. These regulations may be cited as the ayurveda Code for ayurveda medicine and Surgery regulations, 2024 and 
shall come into operation on 08th april 2024 (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed date”). 
parT i
ESTaBliSHmENT oF THE ayUrVEda mEdiCiNE aNd prodUCTioN rEGUlaTory CoUNCil 
2. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the 
“act”), an ayurveda medicine and production regulatory Council (hereinafter referred to as “the regulatory Council”).
1a- pG 6690 - 104 (04/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
2a
(2) The regulatory Council shall, by the name assigned to it by sub-regulation (1), be a body corporate and shall have 
perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in that name.
3. For the purposes of these regulations (hereinafter referred to as “the Code”) -
(a) the articles, substances or drugs as specified in Part II of Schedule I hereto are hereby declared as 
“declared article, substance or drug”; and
(b) the plants as specified in the Part I of Schedule I hereto are hereby declared as “declared medicinal 
plants”; 
in terms of the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (j) of Subsection (1) of Section 77 of the act.
4. The objects of the regulatory Council shall be to - 
(a) regulate all matters relating to the cultivation of declared medicinal plants and the manufacturing, 
preparation, importation, exportation, purchasing, storing, distribution, sale, advertising, 
transportation, supply and quality control of any ayurveda product or any declared article, substance 
or drug :
(i) which are used in ayurveda medicine and used in ayurveda surgery; or
      (ii) which may be obtained over the counter without a prescription;
 
(b) the regulation of all matters relating to:
(i) the cultivation of declared medicinal plants; or 
(ii) the manufacturing, preparation, importation (other than Cannabis), exportation, purchase, 
storage, distribution, sale, advertising, transportation, supply and quality control of Cannabis, 
opium and poisons, minerals, animal matter, goods or other dangerous drugs as determined 
by the regulatory Council,
to the extent they are required in ayurveda medicine and surgery; 
(c) the regulation of all matters relating to obtaining of the registration, approval, or issuance of licences, 
certificates, or permits, as the case may be, required to carry out activities referred to under preceding 
paragraphs (a) or (b) subject to the provisions of the act and, any regulations made thereunder and in 
accordance with the provisions of any other written law, subject to such terms and conditions relating 
to such registration, approval or as specified in such licences, certificates or permits;
(d) monitoring and overseeing of activities carried out by the persons who obtained registration, or 
approval or the holders of licences, certificates and permits referred to in paragraph (c) with a view to 
maintain the standards of products and services provided by them;
(e) the reference of any matter under its purview and to obtain recommendations on such matters from 
any authority including-
(i) the Technical Committee on ayurveda medicine; 
(ii) the Committee on Evaluation of ayurveda manufactories and Stores; 
(iii)  the Committee on investigation of ayurveda manufactories, Stores and markets; and
(iv) the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants;    
                              
                              established under this part; 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
3a
(f) the carrying out of the surveys on quality, safety and adverse effects of any declared article, substance, 
drug or ayurveda product available in the market;
(g) the documentation of information pertaining to all registration, approval, or issuance of licences, 
certificates, or permits issued by the Regulatory Council annually. 
5. The regulatory Council shall consist of-
(a) the following ex-officio members, namely:
(i) the Commissioner-General of ayurveda (hereinafter referred to as the “Commissioner-
General”); and
(ii) the additional Commissioner-General (Technical) of ayurveda appointed under Subsection 
(2) of Section 3 of the act;
(b) The following members appointed by the minister, namely;
(i) Four Ayurveda Practitioners attached to the Department of Ayurveda, qualified in Ayurveda, 
Siddha, Unani and deshiya Chikithsa system of medicine disciplines, respectively;
(ii) Three Senior academics who are professors or senior lecturers in the subjects of materia 
medica, or pharmaceutics in ayurveda, Siddha and Unani disciplines in a recognized State 
University;
(iii) Four registered ayurveda practitioners; and
(iv) Four persons excelled in, and representing the fields of Law, Accounting, Management and 
Chemistry, respectively.
6. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be the Chairman of the regulatory Council.
 (2) members of the regulatory Council shall elect one member among themselves as the Vice Chairman of the 
regulatory Council.
 (3) Chairman of the regulatory Council, or in his absence, the Vice Chairman of the regulatory Council shall 
preside at every meeting of the regulatory Council.
 (4) in the absence of the Chairman and the Vice Chairman at any meeting of the regulatory Council, any member 
elected by the members present shall preside at such meeting of the regulatory Council.
7. The quorum for any meeting of the regulatory Council shall be nine members.
8. (1) The additional Commissioner-General of ayurveda (Technical) shall be the Secretary to the regulatory Council 
and shall, subject to the general directions of the regulatory Council, be responsible for the administration of the affairs of 
the regulatory Council.
 (2) The officers and employees of the Technical Division in the Department of Ayurveda shall, as it may consider 
necessary, assist the regulatory Council in carrying out its functions under the act.
9. any person – 
(a) if such person is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri lanka; 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
4a
(b) if such person is or becomes a member of parliament or a provincial Council or any local authority; 
(c) if such person has any financial or other interest as is likely to affect the discharge by him of his 
functions as a member of the regulatory Council;
(d) who holds ownership of an institution engaged in pharmaceutical industry;
(e) who has been engaged in any employment or consultancy service in an institution engaged in 
pharmaceuticals industry, other than a Government institution;
(f) if such person is under any law in force in Sri lanka or in any other country found or declared to be of 
unsound mind; 
(g) if such person is an undischarged bankrupt; or 
(h) if such person is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri lanka 
or any other country, 
shall be disqualified from being appointed or continue to be a member of the Regulatory Council.
10. Every appointed member of the Regulatory Council shall, unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation or 
removal, hold office for a period of three years, and unless removed from office shall be eligible for re-appointment, for not 
more than one further term, whether consecutive or otherwise.
11. (1) Any appointed member of the Regulatory Council may at any time, resign his office by letter in that behalf 
addressed to the minister, and such resignation shall take effect from the date on which the resignation is accepted in writing 
by the minister. 
(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned therefor, remove any appointed member from office. An appointed 
member who has been removed from office shall not be eligible for re-appointment as a member of the Regulatory Council 
or to serve the regulatory Council in any other capacity. 
(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death, resignation or removal of any appointed member, the Minister 
shall, subject to paragraph (b) of regulation 5, appoint another person to fill such vacancy and such person shall hold office 
for the un-expired period of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds. 
(4) Where any appointed member of the regulatory Council is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his 
office on account of ill health or any other cause or if he is absent from Sri Lanka for a period of not less than three months, 
the minister shall, having regard to the provisions of regulation 5, appoint any other person to act in place of such member 
during his absence. 
(5) Where any appointed member of the regulatory Council fails to attend three consecutive meetings of the 
regulatory Council without obtaining prior excuse for such absence from the Chairperson such member shall be deemed to 
have vacated his office at the conclusion of the third meeting of such consecutive meetings and the Minister shall appoint 
another person to fill such vacancy in the manner provided by regulation 5.
12. (1) The regulatory Council may subject to the provisions of the act, make rules in respect of any matter relating 
to administration of the affairs of the regulatory Council including, to-
(a) regulate its own procedure in regard to its meetings and transaction of business at such meetings;
(b) regulate the procedure relating to any matter referred to –

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
5a
(i) the Technical Committee on ayurveda medicine;
(ii) the Committee on Evaluation of ayurveda medicine Factories and Stores; 
(iii)  the Committee on investigation of ayurveda manufactories, Stores and markets; and
(iv)  the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants.
(2) Every rule made by the regulatory Council shall be subject to the provisions of Subsections (2) and (3) of Section 
49 of the act.
13. The powers and Functions of the regulatory Council shall be –
(a) to issue registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits, as the case may be, 
relating to matters specified under section 77(1) of the Act for which a licence or a permit is required, 
including –:
(i) the cultivation of declared medicinal plants and manufacturing, preparation, purchase, 
storage, distribution, sale, advertising, transportation, supply and dispensing of any declared 
article, substance or drug;
(ii) the importation and exportation of any declared article, substance or drug;
(iii) the cultivation, storing, distribution, transportation of Cannabis and manufacturing, 
exportation, storing, distribution, transportation and sale of cannabis related declared article, 
substance or drug and ayurveda products, of which the cultivation, importation, exportation, 
transportation, sale, storing and distribution has been restricted by any other act or law;
(iv) the importation, exportation, storing or distribution, as the case may be, of any dangerous 
drug, including opium, extracted Paripaka spirit, or any poisons, minerals or animal materials 
of which the importation, exportation, sale, storing and distribution has been restricted by 
any other act or law;
(v) the advertising in print or electronic media including social media of any ayurveda product 
or any declared article, substance or drug which could be sold over the counter, for the 
purpose of promoting directly or indirectly such ayurveda product, or such declared article, 
substance or drug. 
(b) registration of-
(i) any ayurveda product under the act;
(ii) any ayurveda manufactory under the act;
(iii) an ayurveda pharmacy under the act;
(iv) a distributor of any declared article, substance or drug under the act; or
(v) an ayurveda drug store, under the act,
for the purposes of ayurveda medicine and surgery on recommendations of the Technical Committee 
on Ayurveda Medicine and the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants.
(c) the issuance of instructions, guidelines and rules on recommendations of the Technical Committee 
on ayurveda medicine to the effect that any declared article, substance or drug that may be obtained 
from the open market without medical recommendations is suitable for human consumption;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
6a
(d) the issuance of instructions, guidelines and rules, on recommendations of the Technical Committee on 
ayurveda medicine, for cultivation of declared medicinal plants and for the importation, exportation, 
storage, transportation, sale, distribution and dispensing of declared article, substance or drug and 
ayurveda products used in ayurveda medicine and surgery; 
(e) the issuance of instructions, guidelines and rules, on recommendations of the Technical Committee on 
ayurveda medicine, for cultivation of declared medicinal plants and for the importation, exportation, 
storage, transportation, sale, distribution and dispensing of declared article, substance or drug and 
ayurveda products including opium, Cannabis, extracted Paripaka spirit, dangerous drugs, poisons, 
minerals and animal materials, used in ayurveda medicine and surgery; 
(f) to prepare, compile and publish standards relating to declared article, substance or drug;
(g) to make guidelines, rules and recommendations  relating  to registration , approval  or issuance of 
licences , certificates  or permits  under this Code;
(h) to issue instructions to the Technical  Committee  on ayurveda medicine , the Committee  on Evaluation  
of ayurveda manufactories  and Stores, or the Committee  on investigation  of ayurveda manufactories , 
Stores and markets relating  to-
(i) the inspection  of manufactories  and stores; and
(ii) the testing of the quality  and standards of declared  articles , substances or drugs or ayurveda 
products in the market to ensure the maintenance  of quality  and standards recommended  by 
the regulatory  Council ;
(i) to issue instructions to the Technical Committee on ayurveda medicine, the Committee on Evaluation 
of ayurveda manufactories and Stores, the Committee on investigation of ayurveda manufactories, 
Stores and Markets or the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants relating to-
(i) the inspection of cultivation fields and stores; and
(ii) the testing of the quality and standards of fields of declared medicinal plants, crops and 
the declared articles, substances or drugs or ayurveda products made out of such crops, to 
ensure the maintenance of quality and standards recommended by the regulatory Council;
(j) to temporarily suspend or cancel registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits 
in pursuance of any report of the the Committee on investigation of ayurveda manufactories, Stores 
and markets;
(k) to assure public health in pursuance of recommendations made by the the Committee on investigation 
of ayurveda manufactories, Stores and markets by taking measures to enquire into the safety 
operation, quality and stability necessary for human consumption of declared article, substance or 
drug available for sale in the open market and the advertisements made in relation to such declared 
article, substance or drug without obtaining prior written approval of the regulatory Council;
(l) issue recommendations to the Secretary to the ministry of the minister for releasing from Sri lanka 
Customs the raw materials, packing materials and machinery required for local production of any 
declared article, substance or drug upon request made therefor by a manufactory registered under the 
regulatory Council for the importation of same;
 (m) to declare the local and overseas laboratories qualified for testing the standards, safety operations and 
quality of any declared article, substance or drug;

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
7a
 (n) to appoint any other committee or committees as required for effective achievement of the objectives 
of the regulatory Council;
 (o) to determine, with the concurrence of the ministry of Finance the charges for services rendered by the 
regulatory Council;
 (p) to obtain relevant information and data from the manufacturers, importers, exporters, wholesale 
dealers, retail pharmacists, prescribers, dispensers and any other person involved in the manufacture 
or sale of any ayurveda product in Sri lanka or any other country who may assist in  the determination 
of the quality or price of a single ayurveda product or a group of such products;
                                                                                                                                          
 (q) to recommend to the relevant manufactories the reduction or increase in prices or the maintenance of 
any existing price of any ayurveda product or a group of such products in consultation with relevant 
authorities;
 (r) to monitor the price fluctuations of any Ayurveda product, where necessary;
 (s) to collect data on the use of any ayurveda product or a group of such products in Sri lanka;
 (t) to recommend to the manufactories, the methods of determining the introductory price and maximum 
retail price of any ayurveda product and price revisions of such product and, to provide advice to such 
manufactories on any other matter relating to pricing of such product; 
 (u) to take into consideration from time to time, any ayurveda product which shall be subject to revision 
of prices;
 (v) the inspection of any fields of declared medicinal plants cultivated under this Code;
 (w) to make rules in respect of matters referred to in regulation 12; and 
 (x) generally, to do such other acts and things as authorized by the act and by these regulations to facilitate 
the proper discharge of the functions of the regulatory Council.
14. (1) The seal of the regulatory Council –
(a) shall be determined by the regulatory Council and may be altered in such manner as may be determined 
by the regulatory Council; 
(b) shall be in the custody of such person as the regulatory Council may determine, from time to time; 
and
 
(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or document except with the sanction of the Regulatory Council 
and in the presence of two members of the regulatory Council who shall sign the instrument or 
document in token of their presence. 
(2) The regulatory Council shall maintain a register in respect of the instruments and documents to which the seal 
of the Regulatory Council is affixed.
(3) In issuing any registration, approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits under these regulations, the 
Seal of the Regulatory Council, the Official stamp of the Chairman and the official stamp of the Secretary shall be affixed to 
such approval, permit, licence or certificate.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
8a
15. Any Member, officer or employee of the Regulatory Council shall, before entering upon his duties, sign a 
declaration pledging himself to observe strict secrecy in respect of all matters connected with the working of the regulatory 
Council and shall by such declaration pledge himself not to disclose any matter which may come to his knowledge in the 
discharge of his functions, except– 
(a) when required to do so by a court of law; or 
(b) in order to comply with any of the provisions of the act or these regulations.
16. (1) The Financial year of the regulatory Council shall be the calendar year.
(2) The regulatory Council shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets 
and liabilities and all other financial transactions of the Regulatory Council.
(3) The provisions of article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall 
apply to the audit of accounts of the regulatory Council.
(4) all expenses incurred in the implementation of the duties and functions of the regulatory Council shall be 
paid out of the Consolidated Fund.
(5) all revenue collected by the regulatory Council shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
(6) The members of the regulatory Council shall be paid remuneration in terms of the provisions of section 45 
of the act. 
17. (1) There shall be appointed a Technical Committee on ayurveda medicine (hereinafter referred to as the “Technical 
Committee”) which shall be responsible in making recommendations to the regulatory Council in respect of cultivation of 
declared medicinal plants, importation, exportation, storage, sale and distribution and dispensing of any declared article, 
substance or drug, as the case may be.
(2) The Technical Committee shall be comprised of-
   (a) one ex-officio member who shall be the additional Commissioner-General of ayurveda (Technical); 
and 
   (b) eight other members appointed by the Chairman of the regulatory Council, from among the members 
appointed to the regulatory Council under regulation 5 (b).  
(3) The additional Commissioner-General of ayurveda (Technical) shall be the Chairman of the Technical 
Committee. The members of the Technical Committee shall select one member from among themselves as the Secretary of 
the Technical Committee. 
(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Technical Committee shall be five members.
18. The powers and Functions of the Technical Committee shall be – 
(a) to make the public aware of the required standards of ayurveda products;
(b) to evaluate the applications referred to it and make recommendations relating to the registration, 
approval or issuance of licences, certificates or permits under the Code; 
(c) to make recommendation to the regulatory Council on suspension or cancellation of such registration, 
approval or  licences, certificates or permits; 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
9a
(d) to obtain reports from relevant sectors relating to the standards and quality of declared article, 
substance or drug and ayurveda products and issue recommendations; and
(e) to make recommendations in respect of any other matter referred to it by the regulatory Council for 
the purposes of this Code.
19. (1) There shall be appointed an Committee on Evaluation of ayurveda manufactories and Stores (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Evaluation Committee) which shall be responsible in making recommendations to the regulatory Council 
prior to  registration or issuance of approvals, permits, licences or certificates in respect of manufactories of declared article, 
substance or drug or in respect of any imported or exported article, substance or drug which is declared under this Code, on 
any standards required to be complied with by such manufactory, importer or exporter of such ayurveda article, substance 
or drug.
     (2) The Evaluation Committee shall be comprised of-
(a) the additional Commissioner-General Generalof ayurveda (Technical) who shall be the ex-officio 
member who shall serve as the Chairman of the Evaluation Committee; 
(b) six other members appointed by the Chairperson of the regulatory Council on the recommendation 
of the regulatory Council including three members selected from among the members appointed to 
the regulatory Council under regulation 5 (b).  
      (3) The members of the Evaluation Committee shall select one member among themselves as the Secretary of the 
Evaluation Committee. 
    (4) The quorum for any meeting of the Evaluation Committee shall be four members.
20. The powers and functions of the Evaluation Committee shall be – 
(a) to carry out site inspections of the manufactories, in relation to which references of application 
for registration or renewal have been made and to issue recommendations in respect thereof to the 
regulatory Council;
(b) to carry out raids and sudden inspection of licenced manufactories as instructed by the regulatory 
Council or the Technical Committee; and
(c) to report to the Regulatory Council of any misconduct of the Chief Medical Officer or any other staff 
member  of a licenced manufactory, which has been noticed or detected during a site visit, raid or 
inspection.
21. (1) There shall be appointed a Committee on investigation of ayurveda manufactories, Stores and markets 
(hereinafter referred to as the “investigation Committee”) which shall be comprised of-
(a) the additional Commissioner-General of ayurveda (Technical) who shall be the ex-officio member who 
shall serve as the Chairman of the investigation Committee; and
(b) six other members appointed by the regulatory Council on the recommendation of the regulatory 
Council including four ayurveda practitioners nominated by the Commissioner-General.  
       (2) The members of the investigation Committee shall elect one member from among themselves as the Secretary 
of the investigation Committee. 
      (3) The quorum for any meeting of the investigation Committee shall be four members.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
10a
22. The powers and functions of the investigation Committee shall be:-
(a) either on its own motion or on a complaint or request made to the Commissioner-General to carry out 
inspections, raids and investigations, prior to or after the registration, approval or issuance of licences, 
certificates or permits -
(i) for the cultivation of any declared medicinal plant; 
(ii) to manufactories, stores and pharmacies; 
(iii) for the distribution, transportation, exportation and importation of     any declared article, 
substance or drug,
(b) for the testing of the quality of declared article, substance or drug in the market and make 
recommendations to the regulatory Council accordingly.
23. (1) There shall be established a Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants (hereinafter referred 
to as the “medicinal plants Evaluation Committee”) –
(a) to evaluate and recommend the project report with related to the cultivation and harvesting of 
Cannabis; and
(b) to coordinate with the department of ayurveda and the regulatory Council concerning the matters 
pertaining to provision of security to and the evaluation of, projects related to Cannabis.
 (2) The medicinal plants Evaluation Committee shall be comprised of –
(a) the Commissioner-General who shall serve as the Chairman of the medicinal plants Evaluation 
Committee; 
(b) a Senior assistant Secretary nominated by the Secretary to the ministry of the minister;
(c) the Commissioner-General of Excise  appointed under section 7 of the Excise ordinance (Chapter 
52) or his nominee;
(d) the inspector-General of police appointed under article 41a  of the Constitution or his nominee;
(e) director-General of the Board of investment, appointed under section 6 of the Board of investment 
law, No. 4 of 1978, or his nominee;
(f) additional Commissioner-General (Technical) of ayurveda; and
(g) three members of the regulatory Council who shall be nominated by the minister.
(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Medicinal Plants Evaluation Committee shall be five members.
parT ii
liCENCE To maNUFaCToriES oF aNy 
dEClarEd arTiClE, SUBST aNCE or drUG 
24. (1) No person shall commence or continue with the operation of any manufactory to be engaged or engaged in 
manufacturing any declared article, substance or drug in Sri lanka except under the authority of a valid licence issued name 
of a valid business registration by the regulatory Council in the under these regulations.
     (2) Where the name of a registered business includes the word ‘a yurveda’, or ‘herbal’ such business is required to 
be registered with the department of ayurveda, prior to applying for a licence in respect of such registered business. 
    (3)  Valid Environmental protection licence (Epl), Environmental impact assessment (Eia) or initial Environmental 
Examination (iEE) permit shall be required to be obtained from relevant authorities, where necessary, in respect of such 
manufactory prior to applying for a licence. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
11 a
25. (1) on or after the appointed date, every application for registration of any manufactory of any declared article, 
substance or drug shall be made to the Regulatory Council in the Form A as specified in the Schedule II hereto. 
     (2) Every applicant- 
(a) shall take all necessary precautions to ensure that his manufactory be -
(i) sufficiently spacious and ventilated;
(ii) covered with a boundary wall for the safety of production process;
(iii) completely prevented and protected from animals and birds being   entering; 
(iv) not located in an area vulnerable to floods and other natural disasters;
(v)   not in the close proximity to open garbage dumping sites and public toilets;
(vi) away from the factories, agro-chemical sales outlets, chemical mixing stations, funeral   
parlours and vehicle service stations, as determined by the regulatory Council as unsuitable 
to be in the vicinity;
(b) shall possesses a business registration certificate issued by an authorized institution in his name; 
(c) shall possesses an agreement entered into between him and a registered ayurveda practitioner which 
is valid for not less than three years; and
(d) shall have obtained any other approval deemed necessary by the regulatory Council in respect of the 
manufactory.
    (3) Every applicant who has complied with sub-regulation (2) may apply for registration accompanied by required 
documents and information according to the guidelines issued by the regulatory Council from time to time, including 
the site plan, proposed building plan and details of declared article, substance or drug intended to be manufactured in the 
proposed manufacturing plant and a description of the sub-units in the proposed manufactory together with a processing fee 
determined by the regulatory Council.
26. (1) Upon receipt of the application for approval of the proposed manufacturing plant, the regulatory Council 
shall, at the next meeting of the regulatory Council to be held after the receipt of such application, either-
(a) refer the application to the Technical Committee or to any other institution approved by the said 
Technical Committee, for recommendation; or
(b) reject the application assigning reasons therefor. 
 (2) The regulatory Council may, upon receipt of recommendations of the Technical Committee and where it 
deems necessary, require the applicant to furnish further information relating to a matter or matters specified in the said 
recommendations.
 (3) Upon the receipt of such recommendations and on considering such recommendations and information 
furnished by the applicant and, on being satisfied that the manufacture all guidelines for Good Manufacturing Practices 
recommended by the regulatory Council have been complied with, the regulatory Council shall -
(a) (i) issue the required licence to the applicant with a registration number on payment of the relevant 
fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto; or
    (ii) for reasons to be recorded by the regulatory Council, refuse to issue such licence;
(b) where a licence is issued to the applicant by the regulatory Council under sub paragraph (i), of 
paragraph (a), the regulatory Council may issue any letter or letters of recommendations to relevant 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
12a
authorities for the purpose of obtaining or importation of any machinery and raw material required 
for the manufacturing process involved in the manufacture of such declared article, substance or drug 
or any of them, as the case may be.
 
27. Any applicant, whose application has been rejected due to the non-fulfilment of the requirement may appeal to the 
Regulatory Council requesting for the issuance of a licence upon fulfilling the necessary requirements.
28. Every licence issued under regulation 26 shall be-
(a) substantially in the form specified in Schedule IV hereto; 
(b) where the manufactured item is an Ayurveda drug, in addition to requirements specified under 
regulation 29, subject to such terms and conditions specified therein; 
(c) valid only for the manufacture of the ayurveda article, substance or drug in respect of which approval 
was sought; and
(d) valid only for the period specified therein.
29. Every manufactory issued with a licence to manufacture any declared article, substance or drug (hereinafter 
referred to as “a licenced manufactory”), shall -
(a) have its name board to be clearly and conspicuously displayed together with the registration number 
and contact details in identifiable letters and figures, at the entrance of the manufactory;
(b) exhibit the Licence and the valid Certificate of Registration issued by the Ayurveda Medical Council 
to the ayurveda medical practitioner, with whom the licenced manufacturer has entered into an 
agreement, which shall be valid for the period of the licence;  
(c) practice Good manufacturing practices recommended by the regulatory Council in accordance with 
the guidelines issued by the regulatory Council; 
(d) provide and maintain such number of staff, premises, equipment and facilities as are considered 
to be necessary for the manufacture of any ayurveda article, substance or drug undertaken to be 
manufactured by such licenced manufacturer and shall not carry out such manufacture except under 
the required medical supervision and at the premises specified in the licence ;
(e) maintain such staff, premises, equipment and facilities for the handling and storage of the raw 
materials and medicines as are considered necessary;
(f) not issue any production to the market except under the approval of the Chief Medical Officer of such 
manufactory; 
(g) ensure that such declared article, substance or drug manufactured in such manufactory in commercial 
scale are in accordance with the provisions of these regulations.
(h) provide such information as may be required by the regulatory Council in respect of any declared 
article, substance or drug manufactured at such manufactory and of the operations carried out in 
relation to such manufacture;
(i) establish a product related complaint handling system inclusive of recording, analysing and taking 
corrective measures;

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
13a
(j) inform the regulatory Council before making any material alterations in the premises, plant or 
machinery used under the licence, or in the operations of which they are used and any changes in any 
key personnel responsible for:-
(i) the production operations; or
(ii) the quality control and quality assurance of products manufactured;
(k) preserve all records including batch manufacturing records and distribution records for a period of 
five years from the date of expiry of the relevant batch of any declared article, substance or drug 
prepared at the manufactory;
(l) keep readily available for inspection by the regulatory Council or Evaluation Committee or by any 
other person nominated by the regulatory Council, all records including the details of manufacture of 
each batch of every declared article, substance or drug that is manufactured at the manufactory, and 
the tests carried out in respect thereof;
(m) maintain the records in such manner which would enable the records to be easily identifiable from 
the batch number of medicine as shown on each container in which the medicine is sold, distributed 
or exported;
(n) keep all records in a manner which would facilitate the withdrawal or recall from sale, supply or 
exportation of any declared article, substance or drug.
30.  (1) The regulatory Council shall maintain an updated register of every licenced manufacturer which shall 
contain such particulars pertaining to the licenced manufacturers as may be determined by the regulatory Council.
     (2)  Every licenced manufactory shall furnish to the regulatory Council such particulars required by the 
regulatory Council from time to time and   where there is any change in the particulars, inform such particulars forthwith 
to the regulatory Council. 
        
      (3) Upon the receipt of any particulars furnished by a licenced manufactory under sub-regulation (2), the 
regulatory Council shall make or cause to be made such appropriate alterations as may be necessary in the relevant register.
31. (1) a licence issued under regulation 26 shall be renewable on an application made in that behalf to the regulatory 
Council in the Form A as specified in Schedule II hereto within a period of ninety days prior to the expiry of such licence. 
     (2) A licence shall be renewed by the Regulatory Council, only if it is satisfied that the Licenced Manufactory has 
adhered to the standards  in accordance with the guidelines issued by the regulatory Council and, where the manufactured 
item is a declared drug, in addition to the requirements specified under regulation 29 the Regulatory Council shall satisfy 
that the provisions of the Act and any other written law and such terms and conditions specified in the licence have been 
complied with.   
32. (1) Upon the receipt of an application for renewal of a licence under regulation 31 the regulatory Council shall, 
within thirty days of the receipt of such application, either-
(a) refer the application to the Evaluation Committee or to any other institution approved by the said 
Technical Committee, for recommendation; or
(b) reject the application assigning reasons therefor. 
(2) The regulatory Council shall, where it deems necessary may require the applicant to furnish further information 
relating to a matter or matters specified in the recommendations within a specified time. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
14a
(3) Upon the receipt of such recommendation and on considering such recommendations, and information furnished 
by the applicant and, on being satisfied that all guidelines of the Regulatory Council for Good Manufacturing Practices 
recommended by the regulatory Council have been complied with, the regulatory Council shall -
(a) renew such licence for a period of one year on payment of the relevant fee as specified in the Schedule 
iii hereto; or
(b)  for reasons to be recorded by the regulatory Council, refuse to renew the licence-
 
33. Where the regulatory Council has refused to renew the licence issued to a licenced manufactory, the regulatory 
Council shall-
(a) strike off the name of such manufactory from the register of manufactories;
(b) take such measures as the regulatory Council deems appropriate, in respect of the items that have 
been already manufactured but not issued to the market and the items that are still in the process of 
being manufactured.
34. (1) The regulatory Council may suspend or cancel the licence issued under regulation 26, if the regulatory 
Council is satisfied that the Licenced Manufacturer has violated the provisions of the Act or, regulations or rules made 
thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of such licence. 
     (2) Where a licence has been suspended, the regulatory Council shall, within fourteen days of such suspension 
refer the matter to the investigation Committee for investigation and recommendation.
      (3) Upon the receipt of recommendations by the investigation Committee, the regulatory Council may revoke the 
approval, permission, licence or certificate remove the suspension and permit to resume work of the manufactory.
parT iii
                            rEGiSTraTioN oF ayUrVEda  prodUCTS  
35. (1) Every ayurveda product prior to being issued to the market as an item ready for human consumption, shall be 
registered with the regulatory Council under the provisions of this part.
     (2) Every applicant who intends to register an ayurveda product with the regulatory Council shall-
(a) have a licenced manufactory registered for the purpose;
(b) make an application to the Regulatory Council in the Form B specified in Schedule II hereto;
(c) submit all such information, as may be determined by the regulatory Council time to time. 
(d) provide samples of the ayurveda product as may be required by the regulatory Council; and
(e) pay a processing fee as may be determined by the regulatory Council. 
     (3) Registration procedure for an imported Ayurveda product shall be as specified in Part IV hereto. 
     (4) a separate application shall be made in respect of each ayurveda product intended to be registered. 
36. an ayurveda product applied for registration shall be-

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
15a
   (a) made by the use of one or more ingredients or medicinal items contained in-
(i) the ayurveda pharmacopoeia published from time to time by the department of ayurveda, 
Sri lanka;
(ii) Siddha pharmacopoeia published from time to time by the department of ayurveda, Sri 
lanka;
(iii) Unani pharmacopoeia published from time to time by the department of ayurveda, Sri 
lanka;
(iv) pharmacopoeia of ayurveda, Siddha and Unani approved by the Government of india; or
(v) Traditional medicinal Systems of medicine contained in the pharmacopeias in other 
Countries as approved by the respective governments; 
   (b) made by the use of one or more of the pharmaceuticals considered as a botanical, mineral or zoological, 
which are traditionally used in the Deshiya Chikitsa  systems of medicine and surgery of Sri lanka;
   (c) referred to in the authentic or classical books accepted in the systems of ayurveda, Siddha, Unani, and 
Deshiya Chikitsa  systems of medicine and surgery; 
37. on receipt of an application for the registration of an ayurveda product, the regulatory Council shall, within a 
period of thirty days of such receipt, refer the matter to the Technical Committee for recommendation and report.
38. The Technical Committee on consideration of information furnished in such application, shall inform the 
regulatory Council of its recommendation within a period of thirty days of receipt of such application. 
39. Upon the receipt of such recommendation, the Regulatory Council may, either issue a Certificate of Registration 
in the form as specified in Schedule IV hereto, on payment of a relevant fee as specified in Schedule III hereto or for reasons 
to be recorded by the Regulatory Council refuse to issue a Certificate of Registration to the applicant. 
40. Every Certificate of Registration, unless it is suspended or cancelled earlier, shall be valid for a period of three 
years, in respect of a local product and for a period of one year in respect of an imported product and shall be subject to such 
terms and conditions specified therein.
 
41. The Regulatory Council may suspend or cancel a Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 39, if the 
Regulatory Council is satisfied that the holder has violated the provisions of the Act or, regulations or rules made thereunder 
or any of the terms and conditions of such Certificate of Registration. 
42. (1) A Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 39 shall be renewable on an application in Form B as 
specified in Schedule II hereto being made in that behalf to the Regulatory Council not later than ninety days before the 
expiry of the validity period of such Certificate and on payment of the relevant renewal fee as specified in Schedule III 
hereto. 
    (2) A Certificate of Registration issued under regulation 39 shall be renewed by the Regulatory Council, if the 
Regulatory Council is satisfied that the holder of such Certificate of Registration has complied with the provisions of the Act, 
regulations and rules made thereunder and the terms and conditions specified in the Certificate of Registration. 
43. Packing, labelling and the contents of the brochure to be provided with an Ayurveda product shall be as specified 
in the Schedule V hereto. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
16a
parT iV
  rEGiSTraTioN oF aN improTEd ayUrVEda prodUCT
44. Every imported ayurveda product shall be registered in accordance with the provisions of this part.
45. (1) Every ayurveda product imported to the country shall be manufactured in a licenced manufactory of the 
respective country and shall have been approved for the respective period of validity by the relevant authority of such 
country which has the power to determine the quality of the product. 
      (2) The manufacturer of the manufactory referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall appoint a Sri lanka business entity 
registered with the department of ayurveda as its local authorized agent. 
     (3) Where any authorized agent intends to import an ayurveda product to Sri lanka, he shall, through a registered 
Ayurveda practitioner apply to the Regulatory Council in the Form C specified in the Schedule II hereto together with –
(a) the documents and information specified in the guidelines issued by the Regulatory Council; 
(b) the samples of the ayurveda product obtained in terms of regulation 53 and the dossier, if applicable; 
and 
(c) the applicable fee as specified in Schedule III hereto,
for a licence for such importation.
(4) Separate applications shall be made in respect of each ayurveda product intends to be imported.  
46. The regulatory Council shall maintain a register in which every application received for the registration of an 
ayurveda product intends to be imported, shall be recorded. The particulars to be entered in such register shall be determined 
by the regulatory Council. 
47. (1) Every application submitted to import an ayurveda product shall be accompanied with following documents: - 
 (i) a Free Sale Certificate issued by the relevant authority of the respective country;
 (ii) performa invoice;
 (iii) Fund Transfer document;
 (iv) Commercial invoice;
 (v) packing list; 
 (vi) Copy of Bill of lading or the airway Bill;
 (vii) a  document to prove the country of origin;
 (viii) material Safety data Sheet;
 (ix) relevant analytical and safety reports;
 (x) any other document as are required to import the ayurveda   product or as may be determined by the 
regulatory Council;
(2) documentary evidence to show that the relevant product contains the following accepted percentages of 
constituents: -
   (a) (i) where the product is a food item and not a formula in any Code of medicine or a recognized original 
edition, has herbal extracts, minerals or animal material as active component in percentage as 
may be determined by the regulatory Council from time to time;

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
17a
    (ii) where the product is a cosmetic compound and not a formula in any Code of medicine or a 
recognized original edition, contains herbal extracts, minerals or animal material as active 
components in percentage as may be determined by the regulatory Council from time to time;
   (b) has a coating produced using chemicals and whether such chemical for coating had been extracted 
naturally;
   (c) where it contains one or more chemicals has been confirmed to be of good quality, performance and 
soundness for human consumption with medical reports or two recognized research articles relating 
to researches conducted in terms of methodology recognized by a recognized government institute 
or university and published in peer reviewed journal in the country of production; and
    (d) has been proved as suitable for human consumption upon testing for toxicity.
48. (1) The regulatory Council shall within thirty days of the receipt of such application to import an ayurveda 
product, refer such application to the Technical Committee for recommendation.
     (2) The Technical Committee shall within a period of sixty days of such reference submit its recommendations to 
the regulatory Council, in writing.  
     (3) The regulatory Council, upon the receipt of such recommendation shall either-
(a) approve the importation of a sample of the relevant product subject to provisions of any applicable 
written law; or
(b) reject such application assigning reasons therefor.
(4) The regulatory Council may, prior to the issuance of licence and where it deems necessary, call for further 
information, in addition to those submitted together with the application.
(5) prior to the issuance of licence, the regulatory Council shall consider whether the ayurveda product intended to 
be imported may cause an adverse impact on the local manufacturer and whether they are in accordance with the relevant 
standards specified in the guidelines of the Regulatory Council.
(6) The Regulatory Council shall, on being satisfied that all the requirements for the importation of the Ayurveda 
product referred to in the application has been fulfilled, issue a licence to the applicant to import the Ayurveda product in 
the form as specified in the Schedule IV hereto, on payment of the relevant fee as specified in the Schedule III hereto or for 
reasons to be recorded by the regulatory Council, refuse to issue a licence. 
49. Every licence to import an ayurveda product shall unless it is suspended or cancelled earlier, be valid for a period 
of one year and shall be subject to such terms and conditions specified therein.
 
50. (1) Where the holder of a licence to import any ayurveda product has violated the provisions of the act or, 
regulations or rules made thereunder or any of the terms and conditions of such licence, the regulatory Council shall suspend 
or cancel the licence issued under regulation 48 and require the holder to withdraw the ayurveda product imported under 
such licence from the market at his own expense and in accordance with the procedure as determined by the regulatory 
Council. 
      (2) Where any ayurveda product registered to be imported under these regulations has not been imported in to Sri 
lanka within one year from the date of registration for such importation, the regulatory Council may suspend or cancel the 
licence issued in respect of such product.  

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
18a
51. a licence issued under regulation 48 shall be renewable on an application being made in that behalf to the 
regulatory Council not later than ninety days prior to the expiry of such licence and on payment of the relevant renewal fee 
as specified in the Schedule III hereto. 
52. (1) an application to import a sample of an ayurveda product shall be made in Form d of Schedule ii hereto, 
together with such other particulars as may be determined by the regulatory Council.
    (2) The regulatory Council shall, upon and within thirty days from the receipt of such application to import a 
sample of an ayurveda product, refer such application to the Technical Committee for its recommendation.
     (3) The Technical Committee shall within a period of sixty days of such reference submit its recommendations to 
the regulatory Council, in writing.  
    (4) The regulatory Council shall, upon the receipt of such recommendation, either-
(a) approve importation of such sample subject to provisions of any applicable written law; or
(b) reject such application assigning reasons therefor.
   (5) The regulatory Council shall issue to the applicant a letter of authority for the importation of such sample 
which shall include –
(a) the name and description of the product; and
(b) the period of validity of such authorization.
53. (1) a sample of ayurveda product imported for the purpose of submitting for registration shall not be sold in any 
manner whatsoever and shall only be used for the purpose of registration of such ayurveda product with the regulatory 
Council. 
   (2) Every imported sample of the Ayurveda product specified above, shall be in accordance with standards as 
specified in the guidelines issued by the Regulatory Council.
   (3) any such sample imported without obtaining prior approval of the regulatory Council shall be destroyed or 
caused to be destroyed by such Council. any person who imports such samples without a valid licence shall be dealt with in 
terms of the provisions of the Customs ordinance (Chapter 235).
   (4) Where it is found that such sample or a full consignment of such ayurveda product is not suitable for human 
consumption, the regulatory Council shall have power to order the destruction of such sample or the full consignment as 
the case may be, in accordance with the applicable law and expenses incurred in the destruction of such sample or such full 
consignment shall be borne by the importer.  
54. The regulatory Council shall maintain a register of letters of authority issued in respect of samples referred to in 
regulation 53, in which particulars of such samples intended to be imported shall be recorded. The particulars to be entered 
in such register shall be determined by the regulatory Council. 
55. packing and labelling of and the contents of the brochure to be provided with an imported ayurveda product, shall 
be as specified in Schedule V hereto. 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
19a
parT V
  ExporTaTioN oF ayUrVEda prodUCTS
56. Every ayurveda product prior to exportation shall be registered with the regulatory Council, in terms of the 
provisions of part iii of this Code. 
57. a separate application shall be made to the regulatory Council, in respect of every ayurveda product intended to 
be exported, along with such required documents as may be determined by the regulatory Council for the purposes of desk 
review and making its recommendation to relevant authorities.  
 
58. Upon the receipt of approval from the regulatory Council the person who intends to export an ayurveda product 
shall apply for same to the Export development Board established under section 3 of the Sri lanka Export development 
act, No.40 of 1979.
 parT Vi
STaNdardS For ayUrVEda  pHarmaCiES
                                                       
59. No pharmacy shall sell any ayurveda drug or any other ayurveda product if such pharmacy has not been registered 
under these regulations for the purpose.
60. (1) Every application for the registration of an ayurveda pharmacy shall be made by a person who has a valid 
business registration with the relevant authority and who has entered into a valid agreement for at least one year, with an 
ayurveda pharmacist who has registered  
with the ayurveda medical Council for the purpose of carrying on an ayurveda 
pharmacy.
     (2) a registered ayurveda practitioner shall be entitled to apply for the registration of an ayurveda pharmacy.
   (3) Every application made for the registration of an ayurveda pharmacy shall be made to the Commissioner-
General in Form E as specified in the Schedule II hereto together with the other required documents as specified by the 
regulatory Council. 
    (4) Upon the receipt of documents for registration, the Commissioner-General shall inspect or cause to be inspected 
the site intended for the setting up of the pharmacy prior to registration.
   (5) The Commissioner-General, on being satisfied with the relevant documents submitted and the outcome of the 
site inspection, shall register such pharmacy for a period of one year upon the payment of a fee as specified in the Schedule 
iii hereto and issue him a registration number.
  (6) Every registration of a pharmacy shall be subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified by the 
regulatory Council and is renewable upon application made therefor three months prior to the expiry of such registration.  
in the event of a renewal of its registration, the registration of the business shall be in the name of the applicant and a valid 
agreement between the applicant and any ayurveda pharmacists registered with the ayurveda medical Council shall be in 
existence for the period for which renewal is sought.
   (7) The Commissioner-General shall maintain a register of all registered pharmacies containing information 
including the names of the proprietor, address of the Business registration and address of the location of the pharmacy and 
the contact details of such pharmacy, and particulars of the registered pharmacist as required by the regulatory Council.        

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
20a
61. Every registered ayurveda pharmacy shall, 
(a) display a name board indicating the words “a yurveda pharmacy” in all three languages, the registration 
number of such pharmacy, and the qualification of the registered pharmacist for selling Ayurveda 
products, declared articles, substances or drugs either retail, wholesale or both; 
(b) where in any such pharmacy ayurveda products, declared articles, substances or drugs are sold 
wholesale, also have to be registered as an ayurveda drug store;
   (c) ensure that-
    (i) the ayurveda products which are sold in such pharmacy are duly registered with the regulatory 
Council;  
    (ii) each category of ayurveda products, articles, substances or drugs are separately stored to prevent 
mixing up;
   (d) its Certificate of Registration as an Ayurveda pharmacy which shall contain the photograph of the 
Ayurveda Pharmacist and the relevant certificate of business registration be displayed clearly in the 
premises;
   (e) ensure that the pharmacist shall not engage in any promotional activity or propaganda which is likely 
to motivate the consumers for the use of any particular drug or product sold therein; 
   (f) ensure the advertisements, posters and papers are displayed only within the premises and the 
pharmacist does not engage in promotional or advertising activity of any form therein;
   (g) ensure that where any supermarket intends to sell ayurveda products in its business premises such 
supermarket, adheres to the standards and regulations in force in respect of ayurveda pharmacies.
62. The premises of any registered ayurveda pharmacy shall, -
   (a) have considerable space and shall be fit for systematic and methodical continuance of activities of 
such a yurveda pharmacy;
   (b) where drugs are required to be mixed, possess sufficient space dedicated for that purpose;
   (c) be compartmentalized into two separate divisions for end products and dry medicines;
   (d) be facilitated to store cosmetics and other non-medicinal materials separately, if any;
   (e) where materials and equipment required for demonology are sold, be facilitated to allocate a separate 
space for the purpose;
  
   (f) have buildings designated in such a way so as not to expose medicinal materials to dust, smoke, sharp 
sun rays and unclean air;
   (g) take steps to keep light, ventilation, temperature and humidity in conditions appropriate for pharmacies: 
air condition facilities must be provided to areas requiring such facilities;
   (h) possess a minimum space of not less than 25 square feet, to be kept available as a waiting space for 
consumers;

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
21a
(i) have a building structure planned in such a way so as to avoid or minimize the risk of drugs being 
mixed with unnecessary substances; 
(j) have separate facilities to store expired or damaged articles, substances or drugs;
(k) provide physical facilities to enable cleaning in accordance with the cleaning methodologies employed 
by pharmacies;
(l) be planned with maximum provisions to prevent entrance of termites, insects, birds, rats and pet 
animals by following suitable precautionary measures and standard sanitation systems shall be used 
for the purpose comprised with washing and sanitary facilities established in the pharmacy and the 
storing premises in a manner easy to reach; 
(m) be in a building over 10 feet in height-
(i) with walls and the ceiling painted with a paint containing no heavy metal and peeling proof;
(ii) with the floor properly finished without defects by applying materials easy to clean, non-
reactive to medicines and non-slippery; 
(iii) with a roof permanently fixed using long-lasting material suitable for a pharmacy;
(iv) without crevices between roof cover and walls;
(v) with a heat resistant fixed to the roof to control the inside temperature;
(vi) with a ceiling easy to clean and having no adverse impact on the ayurveda products sold; 
and
(n) be equipped with fire extinguishers;
63. Every registered ayurveda pharmacy shall be adequately staffed with ayurveda pharmacists who work on fulltime 
basis and supporting staff working under supervision of such  pharmacists.
64. (1) Every member of the staff having responsibility in the issuance of drugs on a prescription in a registered 
ayurveda pharmacy shall-
   (a) be of sound physical health;
   (b) be dedicated to provide an agreeable, flexible and friendly service;
   (c) wear a suitable uniform and a card for identification; and
   (d) not consume liquor, cigarettes, chews of betel or narcotics during working hours.
(2) it shall be the duty of every member referred to in sub-regulation (1) to check the prescription prior to the issuance 
of ayurveda drugs to a patient; 
65. (1) Utmost care shall be taken in preventing growth of microbes in ayurveda drugs which can cause adverse 
effects on such drugs.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
22a
(2) ayurveda drugs for internal medication and external medication shall be clearly separated from each other and 
“a yurveda drugs for external medication only” shall be written in a clearly visible manner in red colour in the area where 
ayurveda drugs for external medication are exhibited for sale.
(3) ayurveda drugs shall be arranged neatly in the display racks according to their usage and the same ayurveda drug 
which is available in packings of different sizes, shall be placed in the same area and shall be clearly separated from each 
other according to the sizes of the packing.
(4) The price marked on the packing or label of the end product of the Ayurveda drug shall not be disfigured or 
changed and Ayurveda drugs of which the labels are unidentifiably disfigured or torn or the packing has been damaged or 
date of expiring has passed shall not be placed for sale. 
(5) a retail price index shall be exhibited for all dry, raw or crude ayurveda drugs kept for sale in a sales center.
(6) only the end products of ayurveda drugs registered with the regulatory Council shall be stored or sold.
(7) ayurveda drugs shall be taken for sale only from suppliers registered with the regulatory Council.
(8) a register containing information of cultivators or collectors of raw materials, including the small scale or home 
garden cultivators shall be maintained and updated.
(9) only natural, clean and sanitary dry, raw or crude materials shall be sold.
(10) in compounding medicine, a sanitary and clean process shall be followed.
(11) ayurveda declared articles including equipment shall be obtained for sale only from manufacturers registered 
with the regulatory Council.
66. ayurveda declared articles, substances or drugs shall-
(a) be issued only upon medical recommendations and shall be issued only against a prescription bearing 
the stamp (with registration No. of the medical regulatory Council) of an ayurveda practitioner 
registered with the ayurveda medical Council;
(b) where it has been prescribed by a specially qualified Ayurveda practitioner, it shall only be issued with 
a prescription of such a practitioner: a separate register shall be maintained to keep record of the 
issuance of such drugs;
(c) be issued with only the ingredients referred to in the prescription and in the manner prescribed therein;
(d) be handled following approved sanitation methods;
(e) not be issued in breach of the recommendations given in a prescription issued by the practitioner;
(f) be packed in packings approved for the package of food and medicines and a packing shall not be  
re-used; 
(g) not be issued where there is a difficulty in reading the medical prescription or when the prescription is 
unintelligible or where there is a doubt about the drugs prescribed;
(h) not be substituted if the stocks are available or if the ayurveda practitioner had underlined the drug in 
his prescription; 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
23a
(i) be issued with necessary instructions written on the cover in which the drugs are contained indicating 
the dosage and the manner of use in terms of the relevant medical prescription;
(j) where the practitioner has not given special instructions to follow in using a relevant drug, be issued 
with standard instructions in terms of the Code of medicine;
(k) where issuance of the drug is limited by law, not be issued on a prescription and each time of issue shall 
be recorded in a register giving the details of the amount issued, name of the practitioner, registration 
No. and name and age of the patient; and
(l) be issued with a detailed bill on the medicines issued.
67. Every pharmacy which intends to sell, collect or store materials restricted by any other law shall obtain registration, 
approval or licences, certificates or permits required to carry on such activity or activities.
68. Every registered ayurveda pharmacy shall maintain a separate register to keep records relating to –
(a) staff management;
(b) medical prescriptions;
(c) bills received on purchasing stocks of medicine; 
(d) Rasa drugs;
(e) the sale of drugs, ayurveda products other than rasa drugs ;
(f) sale of visha and upavisha; 
(g) drug bulk purchase bills; 
(h) sale of imported medicine; and
(i) any other relevant document.
69. (1) Every ayurveda pharmacist employed in a registered ayurveda pharmacy shall, prior to issuance of any 
ayurveda product, take appropriate measures to ensure that any requested ayurveda product is or is not a material restricted 
by- 
(a) the poisons, opium and dangerous drugs ordinance (Chapter 218);
(b) the Explosives ordinance (Chapter 183);
(c) the Customs ordinance (Chapter 235); 
(d) Excise ordinance (Chapter 52); 
(e) the Fauna and Flora protection ordinance (Chapter 469); and 
(f) the penal Code (Chapter 19). 
(2) Every ayurveda pharmacist shall take every precautionary measures in respect of the issuance of any such 
restricted material as required by the provisions of the respective laws specified under sub regulation (1). 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
24a
parT Vii
ayUrVEda  drUG STorES
70. (1) Every ayurveda drug store shall be operated under the authority of a licence issued by the Commissioner-
General of a yurveda.
 (2) The following institutions or persons, namely-
 
(a) a manufactory of medicine;
(b) a hospital registered under the department of ayurveda; 
(c) a sales outlet of medicine; 
   (d) suppliers of end products or dry products of declared articles, substance or drugs, ayurveda products, 
as the case may be; 
(e) an importer or exporter or a distributor of medicines registered with the department of ayurveda;
(f) a registered ayurveda practitioner; or
(g) a company registered under the Companies act, No. 07 of 2007 or any other relevant authority to 
carry on a business of a drug store, 
shall be eligible to obtain a licence to operate an ayurveda drug store.
71. (1) Every applicant who intends to apply to obtain a licence to operate an ayurveda drug store shall-
 
(a) possess a business registration made with regard to same, in the name of the applicant; and
(b) an agreement for a duration of not less than one year signed between the applicant and an ayurveda 
pharmacist registered with the ayurveda medical  Council.
 (2) activities of an ayurveda drug store shall be carried out under the supervision of an ayurveda pharmacist 
registered with the ayurveda medical  Council. an ayurveda pharmacist shall sign an agreement only in respect of one 
ayurveda drug store.
72.(1) Every application to register an ayurveda drug store shall be made to the regulatory Council in Form E as 
specified in the Schedule II  hereto along with the required particulars.
    (2) Upon the receipt of an application for registration, the Commissioner-General shall inspect or cause to inspect 
the site of the drug store prior to issue registration.
     (3) The Commissioner-General, being satisfied with the documents submitted and the outcome of the site inspection, 
shall register such Ayurveda drug store for a period of one year upon the payment of a fee as specified in the Schedule III 
hereto and issue him a registration number.
   (4) Every registration shall be subject to such terms and conditions and may be renewable upon application made 
therefor three months prior to the expiry of registration.  
   (5) The Commissioner-General shall maintain a register of all registered ayurveda drug stores which shall contain 
information including the name of the proprietor, address and the contact details of such ayurveda drug store.        
          
73. Every ayurveda drug store shall-
(a) clearly display a name board conspicuously indicating the name of the store and the registration 
number, in all three languages;

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
25a
(b) store only the items purchased or obtained from manufactories and importers registered with the 
regulatory Council;
(c) issue items only on internal written directives of the institution which purchases or obtains same, of 
which records shall be kept in registers maintained for such purpose by the store;
(d) take precautionary measures to prevent unauthorized persons entering the store premises;
(e) in the absence of instructions relating to storing, follow relevant standards prescribed by the ayurveda 
Code or consult the regulatory Council.
74. (1) an ayurveda drug store shall not be located in the close proximity of-
(a) yards of garbage disposal;
(b) public toilets;
(c) agrochemical sales outlets;
(d) institutions mixing chemicals; 
(e) funeral parlors and morgues;
(f) vehicle service stations; 
(g) factories (such as tile, plastic, fuel refineries etc.) that immethodically or carelessly emit smoke, dust, 
carbon and heat unless it is covered or properly sealed; and 
(h) animal farms,
 
and any other place in the vicinity of which the regulatory Council determines as unsuitable to carry on a medicinal store.
(2) Where any place referred to in sub-regulation (1) is subsequently established near an ayurveda store, such store 
shall take all precautionary measures to minimize impact caused by such place to the items stored in such store.
(3) Where the premises of an Ayurveda store is located in an area identified as vulnerable to floods and other natural 
disasters, precautionary and preventive measures shall be adopted by such store for the safety of items stored in such store.
75. Every premises used as an ayurveda drug store shall-
(a) be sufficiently spacious;
(b) have separate entrances for input and output of materials as recommended by the regulatory Council 
based on the capacity and facilities for loading and unloading at such entrances;
(c) have quarantine units set up outside the store premises; 
(d) keep samples of primary materials in another site under appropriate conditions or separately in the 
premises itself; 
(e) have two areas allocated separately to store end-products of medicine and dry medicines: in the event 
where raw medicines are to be stored, a separate area shall be used for the purpose under appropriate 
environmental conditions. all these areas shall have separate entrances and shall not be connected to 
each other internally; 
(f) be housed in a building –
(i) with walls and the ceiling painted with a paint containing no heavy metal and peeling proof;
(ii) with the floor properly finished without defects by applying materials easy to clean, non-
reactive to medicines and non-slippery; 

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
26a
(iii) without crevices between roof cover and walls;
(g) designated in a manner so as not to expose medicinal materials to dust, smoke, sharp sun rays and 
unclean air;
(h) take steps to keep light, ventilation, temperature and humidity in conditions appropriate for places 
storing drugs and air condition facilities must be provided to areas requiring such facilities;
(i) which has a building structure planned in a manner so as to avoid or minimize the risk of drugs being 
mixed with unnecessary substances; 
(j) which possesses separate facilities to store expired or damaged drugs;
(k) having maximum provisions to prevent entrance of termites, insects, birds, rats and pet animals by 
following suitable precautionary measures and standard sanitation systems for the purpose comprised 
with washing and sanitary facilities established in the store and the storing premises in a manner easy 
to reach; 
(l) with facilities to store-over active materials, radioactive materials, dangerous drugs, hazardous 
materials, sensitive objects, substances that may be misused and inflammable and explosive materials 
separate from each other.
76. in the storage of drugs, a quarantine unit shall be located for the purpose of to 
quarantining all ayurveda drugs 
(raw materials, packing materials) prior to they being transferred to the store.
77. (1) The quarantine unit shall follow standard quarantine procedure under the supervision of a registered pharmacist.
  (2) medicines shall be stored by using packing meant for food and medicinal items only. medicine shall be supplied 
only by using the standard food or medicine transportation methodologies specified in the guidelines prepared by the 
regulatory Council.
      
  (3) A standard, certified collection of samples applicable for identification of materials shall be maintained in every 
store.
  (4) Where further testing is required for proper identification of medicines at a situation of uncertainty, recommendations 
shall be sought by reference of such samples to a laboratory approved by the regulatory Council.
  (5) a separate store shall be available for the temporary storage of ayurveda drugs until they are quarantined.
  (6) Quarantined medicines shall be sent to the store, only after being properly labelled and certified.
  (7) Quarantine registers containing particular of the medicines quarantined shall be maintained properly at the stores.
78. (1) Every ayurveda article, substance or drug used for the production process, intermediate products and as 
packing materials of drugs, as determined by the regulatory Council from time to time, shall be stored separately in terms 
of the Model Standards for Ayurveda drug stores as specified in the guidelines prepared by the Regulatory Council.
       (2) only the raw materials received from registered suppliers or end products of ayurveda drugs and articles of 
licenced manufactories shall be stored in any ayurveda drug store.
     (3)  Environmental conditions conducive for storing shall be maintained. air conditioning and refrigeration 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
27a
facilities shall be made available to store drugs which required to be stored under air-conditioning or refrigeration. 
(4) The materials stored shall be stacked in racks with shelves or stages so as not to contact with the floor.
(5) The store premises must be clean and be devoid of waste and pests. Cleaning and observation spaces shall be made 
available in storing and a standard sanitation process shall be available with clear instructions on cleaning methodologies.
(6) raw materials shall be stored only in their natural clean state and different types of medicinal raw materials shall 
be labelled and stored separately
(7) all end products of ayurveda drugs shall be categorized as botanical, mineral or zoological or the like and shall 
be stored separately.
(8) Hyperactive materials, radioactive materials, drugs specified in Part IX of these regulations, hazardous materials, 
sensitive objects, substances that may be misused and inflammable and explosive materials shall be stored in areas allocated 
to such materials and shall be maintained with caution and subject to hazardous preventive methodologies in terms of 
relevant local or international rules and regulations.
(9) Storing shall be done in a manner so as to prevent mixing of raw materials, inter contact and internal spoiling.
(10) When the same medicine is separated according to its quantity, it shall be packed in the same area marking due 
separations in respect thereof.
(11) in a store, regular stock-taking shall be carried out.
 (12) (a) Where a label of an ayurveda drug contains information different from the actual information that can be 
related to the drug, measures shall be taken to examine whether a mixing or an incorrect issuance had 
taken place.
  (b) An Ayurveda drug which is different from the information contained in the label shall be identified by 
adopting the guidelines prepared by the regulatory Council.
 
(13) after an issuance of a medicine making a portion of such medicine to remain, the remaining portion of the 
medicine shall be stored in such a way so as not to be spoiled and decomposed, and shall be safely packed and labelled. The 
raw material of which a portion remains shall be first issued at the next issuance.
(14) Under any circumstance, any material with a damaged-packing shall not be issued. Where required, such material 
shall be referred to Quality Control Unit for necessary testing of its condition. all actions taken in that respect shall be 
recorded and registered.
(15) proper precautionary measures shall be taken to prevent issuance of outdated materials. Expired, damaged, 
rejected or re-called medicines shall not be kept in the store. Such materials shall be stored in a separate place till they are 
disposed of and a separate register shall be maintained to keep records of such items and monthly reports shall be sent to the 
regulatory Council in that regard. Expired or damaged medicines shall be disposed of methodically under approval of the 
regulatory Council.
(16) a  systematic methodology shall have to be developed to issue ayurveda drugs on ‘First in First out (FiFo)’ 
basis without surpassing standards to be maintained relating to such drugs.
79. (1) Every ayurveda store shall –
(a) keep records in order to enable the re-testing of the existing temperature and humidity;
(b) check all pertinent equipment at proper intervals and keep records thereof;

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
28a
(c) record in graphs the fluctuations of store temperature, to enable proper observation; and
(d) calibrate measuring equipment at regular intervals.
(2) all records referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be kept safe for a period of one year from the date of expiry of 
that medicine or any other period provided by the existing rules and regulations.
80. (1) Every ayurveda Store, in addition to the records referred to in regulation 79 shall-
(a) keep written records on activities performed in the premises;
(b) keep records in both written and electronic form of all items stored including instructions relating to 
recommended conditions of storing, precautionary measures, observations and the dates to re-check; 
and
(c) keep records of every issuance including the particulars of the item, its quality, amount, supplier, batch 
number of the supplier, date received, and date of expiry.
(2) The records referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall be kept in a specific system of identification either based on 
batch numbering or a similar system .
81. (1) raw materials and ayurveda drugs shall be stored in packings in a manner that would prevent reacting with 
each other and being protected from external risks.
     (2) Every packing referred to in sub-regulation (1) shall have labels clearly indicating the name of the item, batch 
number, date of expiry and the date for re-checking, condition for special packing in terms of the registration Number of 
the medicine. The abbreviations, names or codes that have not been approved by the regulatory Council shall not be used 
in the labels.
     (3) Receipt orders received pertaining to raw materials and medicines, shall be tested and confirmed at every order.
    (4) Packing shall be physically tested and confirmed with respect to every order of raw materials and products.
    (5) Uniformity of any stock shall be tested and confirmed.  In case a stock consists of products belonging to several 
batch numbers, they shall be duly separated.
   (6) all containers shall be well examined for cleanliness and where a broken or damaged container or a container 
which is below the required standards is found in a stock, the entire stock shall be kept in the quarantine premises for further 
investigations.
   (7) (a) Qualified and trained staff shall take samples of the stocks when necessary. 
   
  (b) Samples must be taken in terms of the written instructions provided by the regulatory Council and the 
containers into which samples are taken shall be properly labelled. 
  (c) The samples so taken shall be quarantined. Batch separation process shall continue even in the process of 
storing.
   (8) raw materials or ayurveda drugs shall be kept in a quarantine store until they are approved or rejected by an 
authorized officer.
82. (1) The store premises shall be cleaned in terms of standard sanitation procedures in order to prevent damages 
likely to be caused by animals including termites, insects, birds and rats and written records shall be kept of the procedures 
and methods used for sanitation. 

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
29a
(2) Every packing container shall be cleaned before and after every use in terms of the standard methodologies 
applicable in respect thereof.
(3) Every precautionary measure shall be taken to prevent growth of microbes, in order to minimize its impact on 
medicines.
83. (1) Every ayurveda Store shall be- 
(a) supervised by an ayurveda pharmacists registered under the act who shall be responsible for the 
activities carried out in the stores; 
(b) staffed with a qualified person possessing knowledge on Ayurveda drug;
(2) The staff shall be –
(a) provided with a proper training on methodologies, regulations and safety measures of storing medicine;
(b) informed and trained on optimum protection of personal health and sanitation; and
(c) provided with a protective uniform suitable for their work.
84. The following registers shall be maintained in the stores and shall be regularly updated:-
(a) staff management register; 
(b) register of issuance of stocks; 
(c) register of wholesale and retail purchasing stocks of medicine and bills;
(d) rasa stock register;
(e) register on the sale of other than rasa products; and 
(f) register on the sale of imported medicine.
part Viii
STaNdardS For diSTriBUTioN
85. For the purposes of this part –
“distribution” means, the process of supply, purchasing, keeping (other than in a store), sale, importation, 
exportation and transportation of the declared article substance or drug or any ayurveda product 
mentioned from the manufactory up to the point of handing over to the beneficiary and, however it does 
not mean directly handing over the item to the beneficiary.
86. any person or institution engaged in the distribution of any declared article, substance, drug or ayurveda product 
(hereinafter referred to as the “registrant”) shall be registered with the regulatory Council. The registration shall be annually 
renewed.
87. Every registered manufactory who wishes to apply for registration for the distribution of declared article, 
substance, drug or ayurveda product shall apply to the  regulatory Council for the purpose in the application in Form G as 
specified in Schedule II hereto.
88. Every registrant referred to in regulation 86 or a registered manufactory referred to in regulation 87 shall submit 
information of the process of distribution and other relevant information as required by the regulatory Council. 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
30a
89. Every distribution outlet shall-
(a) display a name board or name boards, as the case may be, at the main entrance open to the main road 
in an identifiable manner containing the name of the registered institution and the words “a distributor 
registered with the department of ayurveda” in all three languages along with registration number in 
terms of recommendations of the regulatory Council;
(b) have sufficient infrastructure facilities determined by the Regulatory Council; and
(c) clearly display a Certificate of Registration of Distribution issued by the Regulatory Council in the 
Head Office and regional Office of the registered institution.
90. (1) The capacity of distribution, media and transportation methodologies utilized by the person or institution 
registered for distribution shall be to the satisfaction of the regulatory Council.
     (2) instructions of the regulatory Council shall be followed in situations which hampers distribution process due 
to natural disasters or similar unpredictable situations. in case of an emergency, precautionary and quarantine measures shall 
be followed to prevent their impact on the distribution process.
     (3) all parties engaged in the process of distribution shall abide by regulations applicable for distribution and made 
under this part.
    (4) regulations applicable for distributions made under this part shall be complied with even in the distribution and 
transportation of donations to people affected by disasters.
91. registration for distribution shall be valid only for distribution of approved products registered with the regulatory 
Council.
92. Where a registered distributor seeks assistance of an external party to distribute products, vehicles suitable for 
the purpose shall be utilized and shall make sure that the quality of the products are not be affected by the transportation, 
humidity, temperature, physical contact and the process of distribution.
93. Every distributor at the time of registration for distribution under this part shall submit to the regulatory Council 
information relating to- 
(a) written objectives and requirements of the distributor properly stated and approved by the regulatory 
Council;
(b) methodology available to keep relevant manufacturers and the regulatory Council immediately 
informed of unauthorized distributions suspected or confirmed;
(c) approved methodologies for all administrative and technical activities to ensure that products were 
undertaken from authorized suppliers and distributed to authorized institutions;
(d) mechanism to be followed in the exchange of distributions at distribution exchanges;
(e) written methodology to confirm unauthorized distributions or the stations suspected on such 
unauthorised distributions; and
(f) methodology to be in place for distributors to measure quality of distributions in order to check damages 
likely to be caused to such distributions.
94. (1) Where registration is sought in respect of distribution of declared articles, substances or drugs or ayurveda 

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
31a
products, vehicles with appropriate enclosed partitions or separate vehicles for each item shall be used in order to prevent 
items getting mixed up with each other.
(2) Where the vehicles used for distribution belong to a third party or are hired, the applicant shall submit a letter of 
consent from the vehicle owner along with a copy of his National Identity Card, a copy the revenue licence and certificate of 
registration of the vehicle to the regulatory Council along with the application for registration for such distribution.
(3) in case of a change of the ownership of a vehicle approved by the regulatory Council for distribution under this 
part or where a new vehicle is purchased, information in that regard shall be submitted to the regulatory Council within 
fourteen days of the occurrence of such change.
95. a registered distributor shall -
(a) be responsible for the entire process of distribution made under this part;
(b) clearly provide written instructions to and raise awareness of relevant individuals, making such 
individuals understand the distribution process;
(c) appoint a person in the institution responsible and authorized for ensuring implementation of distribution 
process and maintenance thereof in terms of these regulations;
(d) appoint managers and technical officers having the authority and facilities required for identification 
of deviation from optimum process and its rectification;
(e) not entrust to an individual an unbearable amount of responsibility which may affect the quality of the 
item distributed;
(f) take steps to avoid conflicts of interests or commercial, political, financial or other influences upon 
people and management which are likely to have an adverse impact on the quality of the distribution 
service or the item distributed;
(g) ensure that the staff observes personal health and cleanliness;
(h) follow defence strategies in a manner not to damage persons, property and stability of the environment; 
and
(i) take appropriate measures under the existing laws in order to prevent instances of damaging and 
spoiling distributions, substitution or transportation of unauthorized substances.
96. (1) Every registered distributor shall deploy properly trained and qualified staff to carry out distribution activities.
     (2) Special training shall be given to those who are distributing dangerous material and the regulatory Council 
shall be reported of such trainings.
     (3) all members of the staff of a registered distributor shall be clad in a uniform suitable for the task.
     (4) The health and hygiene of the members of the staff shall be properly preserved specially when they are engaged 
in duty.
97. (1) all vehicles used for distribution shall, at all times, keep the distribution licence issued in respect of the 
vehicle, in the vehicle, in order to be produced at an emergency check.
     (2) Vehicles used for transportation shall be suitable for the relevant distribution purposes.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
32a
 (3) Storing facilities shall be available in the packaging space of the vehicle used for distribution, in a condition 
suitable for the relevant category of products.
 (4) only the Categories of declared articles, substances or drugs that do not have adverse effect on each other 
when kept together in the same environment shall be transported in the same vehicle.
 (5) Purpose specific vehicles or single vehicles with doors and compartments separated shall be used for distribution 
of more than one category of product.
 (6) raw opium or cannabis shall be transported in terms of the provisions of part ix of this Code. 
 (7) during transportation any expired or damaged ayurveda product, article, substance or drug shall be separately 
stored.  
 (8) during transportation over active materials, radioactive materials, dangerous drugs, hazardous materials, 
sensitive objects, substances that may be misused and inflammable and explosive materials shall be kept separate from each 
other.
 (9) Structure of the vehicle used for transportation shall be designed to minimize risks and mistakes. it shall also 
be in a condition easy to clean and not easily dirtied. It shall also have an opening applied with filters preventing entry of dirt 
from outside and maintain a proper ventilation. doors shall be able to be closed tightly.
 (10) it is suitable to maintain an electronic tracking device and a remote vehicle identifying system through a global 
positioning system (GpS).
 (11) Every registered vehicle shall be expeditiously removed from transportation upon being dilapidated. Such 
vehicles shall not be re-used without being adequately repaired. long term decay of a vehicle shall be informed to the 
regulatory Council.
 (12) The frame of a vehicle shall be finished heat resistant. Insulators shall be installed in every vehicle to prevent 
heating from sun rays.
 (13) Vehicles shall have special facilities for storing (such as uniform temperature, humidity etc.) and facilities 
pertaining to transportation of required category of materials. measuring devices shall be available for measuring those 
conditions. relevant measurements shall be recorded at equal durations of time.
 (14) in case where materials requiring refrigeration facilities are to be transported, refrigerators with suitable 
temperature controls shall be fixed under transportation environment.
 (15) areas for parking vehicles, containers and operating equipment shall not be placed at close proximity of open 
garbage dumping sites and public toilets. it shall also be a place away from other factors such as agro-chemical sales 
outlets, chemical mixing stations, funeral parlours and vehicle service stations as determined by the regulatory Council to 
be unsuitable for running a medicine manufactory
 (16) The vehicles used for transportation shall be kept away from the likely intrusion of animals.
 (17) Cleaning substances and disinfectants shall be used on the vehicle in such a manner so as not to contaminate the 
materials stored in the vehicle.
 (18) Vehicles shall not be released to unauthorized persons. 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
33a
Part IX
proViSioNS pEr TaiNiNG To opiUm aNd daNGEroUS drUGS
98. Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter iii and iV of the poisons, opium and dangerous drugs ordinance 
(Chapter 218) the Commissioner-General, under the authority of the minister for the purpose of giving force and effect to 
these regulations in terms of subsection (2) of section 77 of the act shall-
(a) import raw or prepared opium;
(b) appoint such number of officers of the Department of Ayurveda as opium officers;
(c) issue licences to registered ayurveda practitioners, pharmacies and stores for the purposes of 
preparation of ayurveda drugs and storage, transportation, distribution and issuance of raw or 
prepared opium, for the requirements in ayurveda drugs; and
(d) maintain regional opium deposits for rations of opium as needed for the purposes of ayurveda 
medicine and surgery out of the Central deposit of opium maintained by the Commission General.
99. (1) Every such deposit referred to in regulation 98 (d) shall be regulated subject to a procedure prepared by 
the regulatory Council which shall contain criteria, guidelines, conditions for supervision and regulations pertaining to 
maintenance of any opium deposit.
      (2) The Commissioner-General shall maintain or cause to maintain records relating to-
(a)  sources and amounts of the provision of opium to that deposit; and
(b) parties to whom such deposits were issued and amounts so issued shall be clearly recorded and 
maintained.
     (3)  The provincial Commissioner of ayurveda, subject to the direction of the Commissioner-General, shall be 
responsible for the maintenance and supervision of the deposits in the province. 
    (4) The regulatory Council shall make rules relating to the issuance and use of opium by the deposits.
    (5) The Commissioner-General, on recommendations of the regulatory Council, shall appoint provincial 
Commissioner of Ayurveda as the Chief Regional Opium Officer.
    (6) The Chief  Regional Opium Officer shall establish the Regional Opium Board for the relevant district 
comprising of the following:-
   (a) ex-officio members :-
(i) district Secretary to serve as the Chairman of the Board;
(ii) provincial Commissioner of ayurveda;
(iii)  medical Superintendent of district ayurveda Hospital;
(iv) Superintendent of police;
(v) director General of the National dangerous drugs Control Board or his representative; and
(vi) District Excise Officer nominated by the Director General of Excise Act;
   (b) Three ayurveda practitioners of Deshiya Chikithsa appointed by the Commissioner-General.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
34a
 (7) opium shall be issued by the regional opium Board to registered ayurveda practitioners who have been 
issued with a licence therefor, by the Commissioner-General. 
100. (1) any ayurveda practitioner who wishes to have an opium licence shall apply to the Commissioner-General 
in the Form H specified in the Schedule II hereto.
          (2) The Commissioner-General, upon receipt of the application, in addition to information submitted in the 
application, shall require the applicant to submit further information, which he deems necessary for the issuance of the 
licence.
         (3) The Commissioner-General shall, prior to issuing the licence, refer the application to regional opium 
Board of the relevant district for clearance and recommendations.
        (4) after due consideration of the facts of the application, information submitted by the applicant and the 
recommendation made by regional opium Board of the relevant district, the Commissioner-General shall-
   (a) issue the applicant a licence in the Format of the Certificate as specified in the Schedule IV hereto for 
the purchase of opium upon the payment of a fee specified in the Schedule III hereto; or
   (b) reject the application with reasons assigned therefor.
       (5) Every licence issued under sub-regulation (4) (a) shall be valid for a period of one year and may be 
renewed upon application to that effect made to the Commissioner-General in the Form H specified in the Schedule II hereto, 
prior to three months of the date of expiry of such licence.
      (6) The Commissioner-General of ayurveda, by taking into consideration the previous records of the licence 
holder, may renew the licence upon payment of a fee specified in the Schedule III  hereto for a further period of not less than 
one year. Where the application for renewal is not made prior to three months of its date of expiry, the applicant shall pay a 
late fee to be determined by the Commissioner-General.
      (7)  a holder of a licence shall purchase opium before the expiry of the period of validity of such licence. Where 
he purchases such opium after the expiry of such period of validity, he shall be liable to pay a penalty as determined by the 
Commissioner-General.  
 101. (1) The Commissioner-General shall cancel the licence issued under regulation 100 where, 
(a) the holder of the licence has neglected compliance with any provisions of this act, the poison, opium 
and dangerous drugs ordinance (Chapter 218), or these regulations or any conditions stipulated in a 
licence subject to which such opium licence has been issued; or
(b) manufacturing activities performed by using opium have been terminated; or
(c) opium issued has not been used properly in the production process in respect of which such licence 
was issued.
 
          (2) The Commissioner-General, prior to cancellation of a licence under paragraph (a) or (c) of sub-regulation 
(1) shall notify the holder, of the suspension of the licence requiring him to show cause within thirty days of issuance of such 
notice, as to why his licence shall not be cancelled. 
         (3) Where the holder of a licence-
   (a) fails to respond to the notice referred to in sub-regulation (2) within the stipulated time period; or

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
35a
   (b) does not provide a valid explanation to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-General,
the Commissioner-General shall, forthwith cancel the licence and notify the holder of such cancellation.
         (4) in the event of a cancellation of a licence, the holder of such cancelled licence shall return to the 
Commissioner-General opium, if any, purchased under the cancelled licence and in his custody, with immediate effect.
 102. (1) an ayurveda practitioner holding an opium licence referred to as ‘licensed ayurveda practitioner’ in 
regulations 103, 104 and 105 may be permitted to receive opium, transport, keep in possession, store, use for products and 
to produce medicines containing opium subject to conditions specified from time to time by the Commissioner-General.
          (2) Every ayurveda practitioner holding an opium licence shall-
(a) be responsible for the opium in his custody;
(b) supervise the storing and transportation of opium and production of drugs using opium issued to him; 
and   
(c) submit to the Commissioner-General an annual report on the types and amounts of medicine produced 
by the use of such amounts of opium, under his supervision and responsibility.
          (3) The regulatory Council shall keep a register of ayurveda practitioners holding opium licences, which 
shall be updated from time to time.
 103. any liceneced ayurveda practitioner violating provisions of the act, or these regulations or any conditions 
stipulated in the licence relating to opium, opium licence or any matters incidental thereto shall be guilty of an offence under 
the respective laws and shall be dealt with accordingly. The Commissioner-General shall blacklist any such person, who has 
been convicted by a Court of law upon finding guilty of committing an offence relating to opium under these regulations. 
 104. (1) A licenced Ayurveda Practitioner shall make a request for opium in the specified form to the Regulatory 
Council, to be used in production purposes.
          (2) The regulatory Council shall levy a fee determined by the regulatory Council for the opium issued to 
licenced ayurveda practitioners.
          (3) The Commissioner-General of ayurveda shall maintain a register to record every request for opium made 
under the provisions of these regulations, particulars of which to be included in that register shall be determined by the 
regulatory Council.
         (4) when making a request under sub-regulation (1), information relating to the types of products and amounts 
of products for which opium is intended to be used and any other relevant particulars shall be provided to the regulatory 
Council during specific period of time as determined by the Council.
 105. (1) The Commissioner-General of ayurveda shall, notify the ayurveda practitioner who makes a request 
under regulation 104 in writing of such acceptance or rejection of the request within a period of 60 days from the date of 
receipt of the request.
          (2) appeal Board, after considering the explanations placed before it shall-
(a) allow the appeal and direct the Commissioner-General to issue the applicant opium; or
(b) disallow the appeal.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
36a
 (3) The decision of the Appeal Board shall be final.
 106. (1) applying opium to the medicine in the course of its production shall be carried out under the supervision 
of an Ayurveda Community Medical Officer nominated by the Commissioner-General.
 (2) The Ayurveda Community Medical Officer shall place his signature on the production reports.
 107. No person shall cultivate Cannabis, keep them in possession or store, manufacture ayurveda product using 
them or export such ayurveda product or transport Cannabis without obtaining a licence issued for the purpose by the 
Commissioner-General assigning specific authority for each such purpose.
 108. (1) The Commissioner-General shall be responsible for the issuance of licences  as specified in Schedule 
iV hereto, to registered  ayurveda practitioners to obtain Cannabis from the department of ayurveda and keep them in 
possession in amounts required for enforcement of the purposes of this Code.
 
          (2) The Commissioner-General shall, on recommendations of the regulatory Council issue licence to-
(a) Government entities;
(b) Semi-government entities; and
(c) private entities,
upon making a request therefor, to cultivate, receive, keep in possession, store, sell, supply, distribute or transport Cannabis 
for the purpose of manufacturing ayurveda products, or export ayurveda articles, substances or drugs and ayurveda products 
manufactured by using Cannabis. 
 109. The Commissioner-General, upon recommendations of the regulatory Council, shall decide on the category 
of registered Ayurveda Practitioners qualified for the receipt of Cannabis and the amount of Cannabis to be issued to them 
in terms of directives of the Commissioner-General.
 110. (1) A registered Ayurveda Practitioner shall submit a written request in the form specified by the Commissioner-
General to receive Cannabis for production of drugs for the purpose of treating patients.
          (2) Such request shall be accompanied by the particulars of drugs and ayurveda products intended to be made 
using Cannabis, together with a processing fee as may be determined by the Commissioner-General, from time to time. 
         (3) The Commissioner-General shall maintain a comprehensive document on every request received for 
obtaining Cannabis and the types of drugs and ayurveda products intended to be made using Cannabis and the required 
amounts and all other relevant particulars which are included in that request.
       (4) (a)       The Regulatory Council may accept the said request within a specific period of time taking into   
                                 consideration reports submitted and all other relevant information provided or reject the request.
         (b)     Where the request is accepted by the regulatory Council, that fact shall be informed to the applicant 
                                       in writing.
 111. (1) Where the regulatory Council rejects the request, such rejection, shall be informed to the applicant with 
reasons therefor within a period of thirty days and the applicant reserves the right to submit an appeal within thirty days of 
receipt of such rejection.
          (2) An appeal under sub regulation (1) shall be submitted to the Commissioner-General in a format specified 
by the Commissioner-General and, when an oral explanation is required for the purpose, the applicant or his representative 
shall appear before the regulatory Council and give such explanation. a Sub-Committee consisting of at least three members 
of the regulatory Council may be appointed if an investigation is required to be conducted on the said appeal and the 
Commissioner-General may conditions subject to which such investigation shall be carried out. 

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
37a
 (3) an applicant aggrieved by the decision of the regulatory Council shall appeal to the appeal Board referred to 
in part x to this Code.
 (4) When any specific condition or several conditions specified by the Commissioner-General under sub-regulation 
(2) is or are violated in the course of any investigation carried out under sub-regulation (2) or any other investigation carried 
out after giving approval for such registration, the Commissioner-General reserves the right to temporarily suspend the 
registration and blacklist the applicant upon recommendation of the regulatory Council.
 112. (1) a  Government, semi-government or private entity that wishes to cultivate Cannabis or to receive, keep 
in possession, store, distribute or transport Cannabis, used in the manufacture of ayurveda articles, substances or drugs 
and ayurveda products for both exportation and local sales shall apply to the regulatory Council to obtain licences for the 
relevant purpose.
         (2) The application shall be by way of a project proposal with a feasibility report, which shall be submitted 
by way of an Expression of interest to the regulatory Council at an open bidding opportunity provided by the regulatory 
Council.
         (3) The regulatory Council shall, prior to making its decision shall refer the project proposal and feasibility 
report to the medicinal plants Evaluation Committee for evaluation and if necessary, to any other relevant authority to obtain 
their recommendations.
         (4) The regulatory Council may, where necessary, require the applicant to furnish further particulars and 
information on the project proposal prior to issuance of licence.
 113. (1) For the purpose of Expression of interest (Eoi) under regulation 112 (2), every prospective applicant 
shall-
(a) be a legal person;
(b) submit only one application in the Form I as specified in Schedule II hereto;
(c) be an operator of a valid registered local drug manufactory or an institution run under the supervision 
of a ayurveda practitioner registered with the ayurveda medical Council;
          (2) a  duly completed application shall be submitted within the requred time period stipulated in the application.
         (3) all relevant documents shall be submitted as attachments to the application.
(1) The project proposal and the feasibility study shall be submitted along with the application.
(2) Every application shall be accompanied with an affidavit stating the applicant’s willingness to 
start and continue the project mentioned in the EOI and shall be accompanied by audited financial statements of 
the applicant for two consecutive years.
(3) any correction made to the application shall be hand written using blue ink and countersigned 
by the applicant.
 114. (1) The regulatory Council shall, after considering the application referred to it under regulation 113, issue a 
temporary licence for a period of six (6) months upon payment of a refundable deposit specified in the Schedule III hereto 
for the purpose of arranging necessary infrastructure for the project. No person shall commence work of the project under a 
temporary licence. 
        (2) The refundable deposit shall only be refunded-
(a) in local currency, at the equivalent convertible rate of US dollars prevailing on the date on which the 
application was submitted;

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
38a
(b) where the applicant does not continue with the project after laps of six months upon deducting 10% 
of such refundable deposit; 
(c) where the work on the project has caused any damaged to the environment or any other similar 
damage upon deducting a percentage of the deposit sufficient to make good the loss as determined 
by the regulatory Council on a valuation report submitted by a committee appointed for the purpose 
by such Council; 
(d) upon the receipt of the permanent licence and making the deposit referred to under sub regulation (2) 
of regulation 115.
 (3) a  holder of a temporary licence who does not apply for a permanent licence may sell the project property. 
However, a temporary licence shall not be transferrable under any circumstance. 
 115. (1) a  holder of a temporary licence shall obtain a permanent licence prior to the commencement of operations 
of the Cannabis project.  
         (2) Upon the receipt of recommendations of the medicinal plants Evaluation Committee on the temporary 
licence and having evaluated them, the regulatory Council shall issue the permanent licence to the applicant who shall be 
referred to as “the Cannabis licencee” for the purposes of this Code, on the payment of a fee specified in Schedule III hereto 
and the deposit specified in Schedule III hereto. 
         (3) a  Cannabis licencee shall commence operations of the project from the date of issuance of such permanent 
licence and shall provide a detailed report to the regulatory Council, of the operations carried out in every month on or 
before the thirtieth day of next month. in case of export of such declared articles, substances, drugs or ayurveda products 
made using Cannabis, documents related to each shipment shall be submitted for prior approval and a no-objection document 
shall be obtained from the Commissioner-General in report thereof.
         (4) Every cannabis licencee shall, prior to exportation of a cannabis consignment, ensure the receipt of 
payment by way of-
(a) cash in advance Telegraph Transfer (TT); or
(b) an irrevocable letter of Credit (lC).
         (5) in respect of all exported declared articles, substances, drugs or ayurveda products made using Cannabis, 
the exporter shall submit fund-receiving documents from a commercial bank in Sri lanka within three months of a shipment 
or before the next shipment, whichever occurs first. 
        (6) all bills shall be quantitatively related to market value of the consignment to be expected and undervaluation 
or overvaluation or violation of import and export regulations shall be grounds for cancellation of licence issued under sub-
regulation (2). 
        (7) a  temporary licence or a permanent licence may be canceled without assigning reasons therefor, where the 
information provided  as required above is found to be false.
        (8) a written notice of any change in the information relating to the project shall be forthwith be given to the 
regulatory Council.
 
        (9) Inspection of the premises, manufactories, fields, cultivation, harvest or stores relating to the Cannabis 
project by an authorized officer or officers,  shall be allowed at any time of the day.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
39a
 (10) a  Cannabis licencee shall, when carrying out a Cannabis project-
(a) employ proper supervision, adequate care and safety measures in recommended manner during 
cultivation, production, storage, transportation, marketing and export operations. all measures and 
techniques in respect thereof shall be provided by the Cannabis licencee; 
(b) establish a formal procedure for the maintenance of an isolated zone for the project;
(c) construct fences and boundary walls with strict security to cover the entire area used for the project;
(d) arrange security personnel to patrol near boundary fences and walls, which shall have surveillance 
posts established covering the entire area of the cannabis project and armed guards shall be deployed 
for continuous duty;
(e) establish and maintain an uninterrupted lighting system powered by solar energy or alternative energy 
or from the national grid;
(f) auto changeover generators which produce more than 25% of the total required capacity, be 
additionally installed to maintain a continuous lighting system;
(g) light up the premises in a manner that every person entering the premises can be identified;
(h) have armed guards for continuous patrolling of the project area day and night at least once per hour 
and a record of the same shall be maintained;
(i) be equipped with electronic surveillance camera system and a fully secured surveillance room shall 
be established for surveillance, covering all areas of the relevant premises;
(j) establish a formal procedure for vehicles and personnel access control and its continuity shall be 
maintained;
(k) have a  formal system for intrusion control and identification of intruders;
(l) have warning signal monitoring stations and emergency response team in the relevant area to ensure 
internal and external security of the premises;
(m) pack cannabis products hygienically and shall be packaged using approved containment methods;
(n) deploy armed personnel when transporting raw materials or products containing Cannabis;
(o) use one or more high security sealing methods in the packaging, transportation, sale and exportation 
of raw materials or products containing Cannabis; and
(p) keep records of attendance of all employees employed in each premises, accurately and continuously.
 116. Every Cannabis licence issued under the Code shall be 
__
(a) substantially in the Form  Specified in Schedule IV hereto;

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
40a
(b) subject to such terms and conditions specified therein and to the provisions of any other written law 
to the extent permitted for purposes of this Code; 
(c) valid only in respect of the specified purpose, for which it has been issued;  and
(d) valid for a period of one year and may be renewed on application made ninety days prior to the expiry 
of the term of licence.
 117. (1) a  Cannabis licence issued under this Code shall be renewable on an application made in that behalf to the 
Regulatory Council in the Form I as specified in the Schedule II hereto within a period of ninety days prior to the expiry of 
the term of such licence. 
         (2) A Cannabis Licence shall be renewed by the Regulatory Council, only if it is satisfied that the Licenced 
ayurveda practitioner or the Cannabis licencee has adhered to the provisions of the act and any other written law this Code 
and such terms and conditions specified in the licence.
 118. (1) Upon the receipt of an application for renewal of a licence under sub-regulation (1) of regulation 117, the 
regulatory Council shall, within thirty days of the receipt of such application, either-
(a) refer the application to the Committee of Officials for the Evaluation of Medicinal Plants or to any 
other authority for recommendation; or
(b) reject the application assigning reasons therefor. 
          (2) The regulatory Council shall, where it deems necessary may require the applicant to furnish further 
information relating to a matter or matters specified in the recommendations.
          (3) Upon the receipt of such recommendations and on considering such recommendations and information 
furnished by the applicant and, on being satisfied that all terms and conditions of the licence have been complied with, the 
regulatory Council shall -
(a) renew such licence for a period of one year on payment of the relevant fee as specified in the Schedule 
iii hereto; or
(b) for reasons to be recorded by the regulatory Council, refuse to renew the licence.
 
 119. Where the regulatory Council has refused to renew such licence, the regulatory Council shall-
(a) strike off the name of such licenced ayurveda practitioner or the Cannabis licencee from the relevant 
register;
(b) take such measures as the regulatory Council deems appropriate to ensure the items that have been 
already manufactured but not issued to the market and the items that are still in the process of being 
manufactured and the cannabis fields, crops, and harvest to be handed over to the Commissioner-
General.
 120. When the Cannabis licence is cancelled the licenced ayurveda practitioner or the Cannabis licencee as the case 
may be shall immediately surrender the possession of Cannabis fields, harvest, remaining stocks and Ayurveda products to 
the Commissioner-General and the Commissioner-General shall on receipt of such information seize and seal such premises.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
41a
 121. (1) Under this Code, every ayurveda practitioner who holds a Cannabis licence shall submit to the 
Commissioner-General an annual report prepared in the format specified by the Commissioner-General on the utility of the 
relevant amount of Cannabis for specified purposes under his supervision and also submit an audited financial report and the 
extent of his responsibility regarding same.
          (2) a  register of the names of all ayurveda practitioners who holds a Cannabis licence shall be maintained by 
the Commissioner-General based on their respective activity and such register shall be updated regularly.
 122. any ayurveda practitioner or Cannabis licencee or any other person who violates any provision of any written 
law, other than to the extent permitted by the provisions of this part for the purposes of this Code or any terms and conditions 
specified by the Regulatory Council pertaining to Cannabis licence shall be guilty of an offence punishable under the Act or 
such other law, as the case may be and shall be dealt with accordingly.
 123. (1) a  Cannabis licencee shall dispose only the residuals of cannabis, which shall be sold to any other industry 
registered with the ministry of industries under an agreement entered into that effect and security parameters determined by 
the regulatory Council in respect thereof.
          (2) The Cannabis licencee shall maintain a register of every stock of residual Cannabis. 
 
 124. (1) Where the Commissioner-General of ayurveda is of the opinion that-
   (a) a licenced ayurveda practitioner or the Cannabis licencee has neglected compliance with any term 
or condition under which any Cannabis licence has been issued;
   (b) manufacturing activities performed by using opium have been terminated;
   (c) opium issued has not been properly used in the manufacture of the registered product products;
   (d) a  holder of a licence issued under this part has neglected adherence to any of the term or conditions 
imposed by the regulatory Council; or
   (e) a  holder of a licence issued under this part has violated any provision of the act or this Code or any 
rule or guideline made thereunder;
the Commissioner-General of ayurveda shall temporarily suspend the relevant licence, submit relevant information to the 
regulatory Council and make arrangements to issue a notice of suspension on the Cannabis licencee  upon recommendations 
of the regulatory Council. if the matter needs to be further investigated, the regulatory Council may appoint a committee 
consisting of at least three members of the regulatory Council for the purpose.
         (2) Upon such suspension the orders issued by the regulatory Council shall be followed in respect of whom 
the notice of suspension has been issued.
         (3) The said notice of suspension shall include the reasons for such suspension and require the Cannabis 
licencee to show cause in writing within fourteen days of the issuance of that notice as to why such licence shall not be 
cancelled.
        (4) When Cannabis licencee neglects the submission of the explanations as required under sub-regulation 
(3) within the period stipulated for the purpose or upon consideration of the explanations so submitted, the decision of the 
Regulatory Council shall be notified immediately to such Cannabis Licencee.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
42a
 (5) if, for any reason, a licence is to be canceled based on the decision of the regulatory Council, it is the 
responsibility of the person who held such licence to obey rules of such suspension or invalidation and disobeying them 
shall be a violation of the provisions of this Code.
 (6) (a) a  Cannabis licencee shall complete the work pertinent to each licence before the expiry of the period of 
validity of the lilcence.
  (b) if any amount of Cannabis remains unused prior to the date of expiry of the period of validity of that 
licence, they shall duly be handed over to the issuing authority.
 125. (1) a  Cannabis deposit shall be maintained under conditions stipulated under this Code and under direct 
supervision of the Commissioner-General of ayurveda. all its activities shall be regulated subject to a procedure to be 
formulated by the regulatory Council.
       (2)  The said procedure shall contain clear criteria pertaining to the maintenance of a Cannabis deposit, 
requirements to be satisfied, guidelines to be followed, conditions to be stipulated and sources of receipt of Cannabis to that 
deposit and methodologies of distribution.
           (3) issuing authority shall maintain a disposal store for storing Cannabis handed over for disposal in terms 
of this Code. all the activities of the disposal store shall be regulated subject to a procedure formulated by the regulatory 
Council.
 126. (1) Guidelines on encouraging research on products made of herbal Cannabis and their intelligent use based 
on the results obtained upon using such products may be considered by the Commissioner-General of ayurveda with 
recommendations of the regulatory Council.
         (2) The Commissioner-General of ayurveda may permit, upon recommendations of the regulatory Council 
and subject to conditions stipulated under this Code, export, store, keep in possession or sell any constituent of or any 
derivative extracted from, herbal Cannabis.
 127. (1) action may be taken on any medicine containing Cannabis in terms of the provisions in poisons, opium 
and dangerous drugs ordinance only if the breach of the provisions of this Code relating to the production of such medicine 
is proved with evidence.
          (2) any premises registered by the regulatory Council for cultivation, storage, transportation, and export of 
Cannabis production of any medicine by the use of them, and storing of such medicines and sale of such medicine under this 
Code may, at any time, be inspected by the Regulatory Council or the Commissioner-General or an officer authorized by the 
Commissioner-General.
          (3) Where any officer authorized for the purposes of any other written law enters any premises registered 
under this Code, an officer authorized by the Commissioner-General shall accompany such officer.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
43a
parT x
appEalS Board
 128. (1) The minister shall establish such number of appeals Boards (hereinafter referred to as the ‘appeals 
Board’) to hear and determine the appeals of any person aggrieved by a decision of the regulatory Council relating to any 
matter of under this Code.  
 (2) An Appeals Board appointed under subsection (1) shall be subject specific and shall be comprised of-
 (a) a retired judge of the Court of appeal who shall serve as the Chairman of the appeals Board;
 (b) two persons who possess expertise and experience in the subject matter of the appeal;
 (3) Every member of an appeals Board shall sign Terms of reference prior to hearing of an appeal assigned 
to it. an appeals Board appointed under this part may hear and determine such number of appeals assigned to it. 
 (4) Every appointment to an appeals Board shall be subject to such terms and conditions. 
 (5) rules shall be made in respect of the conduct of business of an appeals Boards.
 
 (6) members of an appeals Board shall be paid such allowance as may be determined by the minister in 
consultation with the minister assigned the subject of Finance.
 129. an appeals Board shall have power-
(a) to hear and determin the appeals of persons who are aggrieved by a decision of the regulatory 
Council.
(b) to call expert opinion and order the appellant or any other party to furnish further information and 
particulars, as may be required by such appeals Board.  
       
part xi
GENEral proViSioNS
 130. (1) Transportation of every consignment of 
__
(a) raw cannabis or opium; 
(b) declared article, substance, drug or an ayurveda product made using cannabis or opium;
(c)  declared medicinal plants as determined by the regulatory Council; 
(d) minerals, animal matter, goods; or
(e) poisons or any dangerous drug as determined by the regulatory Council,
shall be carried out under the authority of a permit obtained from the Commissioner-General for that purpose.
         (2) The volume of a consignment referred to in sub-regulation (1) above, shall be determined by the 
Commissioner-General in accordance with guidelines issued for the purpose by the regulatory Council.
        

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
44a
 (3) purchasing of -
(a) raw cannabis or opium; 
(b) any declared article, substance, drug or an ayurveda product made using cannabis or opium;
(c)  declared medicinal plants as determined by the regulatory Council; 
(d) minerals, animal matter, goods; or
(e) poisons or any dangerous drugs as determined by the regulatory Council,
shall be carried out under the authority of a permit obtained from the Commissioner-General for that purpose.
      (4) advertising, promotion or propaganda, directly or indirectly, of any-
(a) declared article, substance, drug or an ayurveda product;
(b) activity; or
(c) place of business,
under this Code, in any print or electronic media including social media shall be carried out under the authority of a permit 
obtained from the Commissioner-General in accordance with guidelines issued for the purpose by the regulatory Council.
        (5) Fee for a permit issued under sub regulations (1), (3) and (4) above, shall be determined by the Commissioner-
General.
      (6) any regulation by or a licence or permit issued to a government institution under this Code shall be free of 
charge.
 131. any advertisement, promotion or propaganda made in relation to a matter referred to in paragraph (a) of sub 
regulation (4) shall not –
(a) contain any safety claim or therapeutic claim;
(b) use human beings or animals as models;
(c) contain any image offensive to the standard of morality or decency prevailing in the Sri lanka society;
(d) have any visual or audio presentation of any ayurveda practitioner, which gives the impression of 
professional or scientific advice, recommendation or endorsement; or
(e) contain any other material as determined by the regulatory Council.
 132. (1) a  general insurance cover with a coverage at least for the third party shall be obtained in respect of every-
(a) pharmacy;
(b) manufactory;
(c) store;
(d) sales outlet;
(e) vehicle engaged in distribution; or
(f) field of declared medicinal plants,
specified under these regulations.
           (2) a  special insurance cover as determined by the regulatory Council shall be obtained in respect of every 
Cannabis Project specified under these regulations.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
45a
                                                       
  parT xii
TraNSiTioNal proViSioNS
 133. (1) The ayurveda pharmacies regulations of 1973, published in Gazette Extraordinary No.229/3 of September 
6, 1973 are hereby rescinded.
         (2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the above regulations, every act or deed previously done thereunder shall be 
deemed to be valid and in force. 
        (3) Every ayurveda pharmacy registered under the above regulations, shall require to be re-registered under 
the provisions of these regulations, within a period of six months from the appointed date or on the expiry of the licence 
issued in respect thereof, whichever occurs first.
 134. (1) For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared that the provisions of these regulations shall-
(a) not affect processing of any application submitted for the purpose of obtaining any registration, 
licence or permit under the act, which has been made prior to the appointed date;
(b) not affect the validity of any registration made or licence or permit issued under the act prior to the 
appointed date;
(c) not derogate the powers of the department of ayurveda or Commissioner-General, to charge, levy 
or recover any fee or any expense due on the appointed date in respect of a matter carried out under 
these regulations; or
(d) not affect any action or suit pending before a court of law or any decision of a court of law given prior 
to the appointment date.
        (2) Every registration made or licence, or permit issued under the act prior to the appointed date shall remain 
valid for their respective periods of validity. 
 
 135. For the purposes of these regulations 
__
              “act” means the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961;
“a yurveda” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961;
“an ayurveda product” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the ayurveda act, No. 
31 of 1961;
“Ayurveda Community Medical Officer” means a medical officer appointed by the Department of Ayurveda 
to provide primary health care to the public;
  “an underlined drug” means a drug that shall not be substituted;

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
46a
  “Cannabis” means all varieties of Cannabis including Cannabis Sativa l
“Commissioner-General of ayurveda” means the Commissioner-General of ayurveda appointed under section 
3 of the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961;
“department of ayurveda” means the department of ayurveda established under section 2 of the ayurveda 
act, No. 31 of 1961;
“district Secretary” means the district Secretary referred to in the Transfer of powers (divisional Secretaries) 
act, No. 58 of 1992;
“Environmental impact assessment (Eia)” means an environmental impact assessment carried out under 
part iVC of the National Environmental act, No. 47 of 1980;
“initial Environmental Examination (iEE)” means an initial environmental examination carried out under 
part iVC of the National Environmental act, No. 47 of 1980;
  “Environmental protection licence (Epl) means an Environmental protection licence obtained under part 
iV a of the National Environmental act, No. 47 of 1980;
“herbal” means any naturally derived plant or mineral or animal substance or part or extract used for medicinal 
value ;
                   “Herbal Gardens for research and Extension” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the 
ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961;
  “minister” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the 
                                    ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961;
                  “medicinal plants” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in   section 89 of the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 
1961;
“provincial Commissioner of ayurveda” means the provincial Commissioner of ayurveda for the respective 
province appointed under section 32 of the provincial Council act No.42 of 1987;
“rasa medicine” means any medicine produced by using minerals in accordance with the ayurveda pharmacopeia 
for therapeutic purposes;
“registered ayurveda practitioner” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the ayurveda 
act, No. 31 of 1961;
“registered pharmacy” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the ayurveda act, No. 
31 of 1961;
“registered store” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 89 of the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 
1961;
“residuals of Cannabis” shall mean any part of the Cannabis plant devoid of any kind of active ingredients or 
compounds. 
“State University” includes a university established under the Universities act, No. 16 of 1978 or by an act 
of parliament.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
47a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
1 wxflkao tpLfdiy/Kl;lehup Claw Flowered laurel Acronychia Pedunculata
2 wlalmdk Uzf;fs;sp/ nrhlf;F cathedral bells Kalanchoe pinnata
3 wlalrmÜg
4 wlaue,a, Toothache plant Acmella oleracea
5 wlafIdg ehl;L mfnul;L Candle Nut Tree Aleurites moluccanus
6 w.s,a nrk;Gspr;rhd; Erythroxylum indicum
nrk;kzj;jp Erythroxylum sideroxyloides
7 wÜálald mj;jp Cluster fig Ficus racemosa
8 w~kysßh fpYfpYg;ig rattleweed Crotalaria atusia
Crotalaria cuneifolia
9 w;a;k fUCkj;ij Thorn apple Datura metel
Brugmansia suaveolens
nts;is Ckj;ij Brugmansia chlorantha
10 w;is Msptpij Flaxseed. Linum usitatissimum
11 w;súvhï mjptplak; aconites, Aconitum heterophyllum
12 wkaor tplj;jiy Sickle Bush Acacia cinerea
Acacia dalea
13 wkakdis md;dhrp pineapple Ananas comosus
14 wfkdaod tl;lj;Jj;jp country mallow Abutilon indicum
15 wn fLF black mustard Brassica nigra
16 wìx mgpd; opium poppy Papaver somniferum
17 wuq tuF kodo millet Paspalum scrobiculatum
18 wuqlalrd mKf;fuh indian Winter cherry Withania somnifera
Schedule I
                                                                                              [regu. 2]
Part I
DECLARED MEDICINAL PLANTS
medicinal plants include any Siddha, Unani, Deshiya Chikithsa (Traditional) or indigenous medicines, which shall be 
similar to following medicinal plants used in other countries.
ශාක ඖෂධ නාමලේඛනය / List of Herbal Medicines / %ypif kUe;Jfspd; gl;bay ;

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
48a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
19 whsi.=,a
20 wr;a; Nguuj;ij lesser galangal Snap 
Ginger
Alpinia calcarata
21 wr,sh myup temple tree Plumeria apiculata
Plumeria bahamensis
Plumeria obtusa
22 wr¿ fLf;fha; Chebulic myrobalan Buceras chebula
Bucida comintana Blanco
Terminalia chebula
23 wr¿mamsá
24 wjßh ^ks,a& mTup indigo Blue Anil tinctoria
Anil tinctoria
Indigofera tinctoria
25 wfYdal mNrhfkuk; asoka Tree Jonesia asoca
Jonesia confusa
Saraca asoca
26 wIagj¾.h
27 wiajekak ngUk;Gyu;j;jp alyce Clover Alysicarpus cylindricus
Alysicarpus diversifolius
Alysicarpus vaginalis
28 wifudao.ï Xkk; Brachyapium involucratum
Stoibrax involucratum
Trachyspermum involucratum
29 wyq Ezh Noni Morinda angustifolia
Morinda aspera
Morinda citrifolia
30 wdvf;davd MlhNjhil malabar nut Adeloda serrata
Adhatoda adhatoda
Justicia adhathoda
31 weÜfÜßh ntq;fhiu orange jasmine Chalcas cammuneng
Chalcas intermedia
Murraya paniculata
32 wegU kh Sri lankan mango Buchanania zeylanica Blume
Mangifera zeylanica
33 we;af;dar tz;Lnfhy;yp ringworm bush Cassia alataL
Cassia alata
Cassia alata
34 we;afid~ Njs;nfhLf;F indian Heliotrope Eliopia riparia
Eliopia serrata

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
49a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Heliotropium indicum
35 we;afoug Fkpo; Comb Tree Gmelina arborea
Gmelina arborea
Gmelina arborea
36 wem,a
37 weU/,a,d mk;guy;yh golden apple Chrysomelon pomiferum
Cytheraea dulcis
Spondias dulcis
38 weUq,a weô,sh gspahiu creeping woodsorrel. Acetosella corniculata
Acetosella corniculata
Oxalis corniculata
39 weUq,a fodvï Gspj;Njhil/ehuj;ij sour orange Aurantium ×acre
Citrus aurantium
40 we,a My;
41 wei;= muR Sacred Fig Tree Ficus religiosa
42 wei< ^weye<& Golden Shower Tree Bactyrilobium fistula
Cassia bonplandiana
ruf;nfhd;iw Cassia fistula
43 blsß MWKs;sp holly-leaved acanthus Acanthus doloarin
Acanthus ebracteatus
Acanthus ilicifolius
44 bÕsks weg Njw;wh Clearing Nut Tree Strychnos heterodoxa
Strychnos monosperma
Strychnos potatorum
45 bÕ= re ,Q;rp Ginger Amomum angustifolium
Amomum zingiber
Zingiber officinale
46 j,a bÕ= re Cylindric Ginger Zingiber cylindricum
47 bx.=È eQ;Rz;lhd; desert date' Balanites aegyptiaca
48 boao Flrg;ghiy artic Snow Echites antidysentericus
Nerium antidysentericum
Walidda antidysenterica
49 bmsld;a
50 b¢ <Q;R Ceylon date palm Phoenix pusilla
51 bUq,a kiy ,ytk; Silk Cotton Tree Bombacopsis quinata
Bombax aculeatum
Bombax ceiba
52 bruqiq ed;dhup indian sarsparilla Hemidesmus indicus

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
50a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Hemidesmus pubescens
Hemidesmus indicus
53 l¿ bruqiq
54 bßfïod Nty; sweet acacia Acacia farnesiana
55 bßfõßh ,UNtyp Coleus forskalae
Coleus personatus
Plectranthus zatarhendi
56 b¨ la ehzy; Spear Grass Arundo epigeios
Cogon Grass Calamagrostis lagurus
Imperata cylindrica
57 B;K Spear grass Andropogon allionii
Andropogon austrocaledonicus
Heteropogon contortus
58 B,a, gj;jb african Tulip Tree, Bignonia tulipifera
Spathodea danckelmaniana
Spathodea campanulata
59 Wla fUk;G Sugarcane Saccharum officinarum
60 W.=/iai governor's plum Flacourtia afra
Flacourtia balansae
fUKWf;fp Flacourtia indica
61 WOx.k îc 
^iduodk&
Nej;jpu Gz;L Narrow-leaf Blepharis Acanthus integrifolius
Acanthus repens
Blepharis integrifolia
62 Wvla;d$Wola;d
63 W÷ black gram Azukia muogo
Phaseolus aureus
cSe;J Vigna mungo
64 W÷msh,s Three flower beggarweed Aeschynomene triflora
Desmodium bullamense
rpWGs;sb Desmodium triflorum
65 Wÿïnr cluster fig Ficus racemosa
66 WK %q;fpy; bamboo Bambusa vulgaris
67 WKlmqre ,ytq;fk; Camphor Cinnamon Cinnamomum capparu
68 WKf.dn %q;fpy; bamboo Bambusa vulgaris
69 W,dwßis$W¿yd,a nte;jak; Fenugreek Trigonella foenum
70 t~re$tr~q Castor bean Cataputia major
Cataputia minor

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
51a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Mkzf;F Ricinus communis
71 tkid,a Vyk; cardamom Elettaria cardemomum
72 t,aj¿ Sour cherry Prunus cerasus
73 t,bUq,a red silk-cotton tree Bombacopsis quinata
Bombax aculeatum
,yt kuk; Bombax ceiba
74 t,msgjlald fPo;fha; ney;yp Stone Breaker Diasperus debilis
Phyllanthus boninsimae
Phyllanthus debilis
75 trnÿ Ks;KUf;F Variegated Coral Tree Chirocalyx candolleanus
Chirocalyx divaricatus
Erythrina variegata
76 t,ngq Eggplant Melongena esculenta
Melongena incurva
fj;jup Solanum melongena
77 t,ìka;Uqre mlg;gq;nfhb Beach morning Glory, Ipomoea pes-caprae
78 taldfõßh ghk;Gf;fsh indian Snakeroot Ophioxylon album
Ophioxylon obversum
Rauvolfia serpentina
79 T,s| Fd;wpkzp rosary pea Abrus precatorius
80 T,sõ olive tree Olea europaea
81 ´,a¨ $´¨ my;yp/ nts;shk;gy; pink water-lily Castalia pubescens
Nymphaea devoniensis
Nymphaea pubescens
82 lioajg
83 lxid fQ;rh Hemp marihuana 
marijuana Soft 
hemp True hemp
Cannabis sativa
Cannabis indica
Cannabis ruderalis
Cannabis hybrids
84 lkaflda, thy;kpsF Java pepper Piper cubeba
85 ll=¿iqÕ= fu;flfrpQ;fp zebrawood Pistacia integerrima
86 lÜM, bayberry Myrica nagi
87 lgfrdvq$lgfrdÿ blue pea Clitoria albiflora
Clitoria bracteata
fd;dpf;nfhb Clitoria ternatea

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
52a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
88 lgqlr~q nrk;Ks;sp hophead philippine violet Barleria macrostachya
Barleria monostachya
Barleria lupulina
89 lgqlfrdaik fLFNuhfpdp picrorhiza Picrorhiza scrophulariiflora
90 lgqfm| Spiny Naiad. Najas marina
91 lgqje,angq fz;lq;fj;jp Thorny night shade, Solanum arabicum
Solanum armatum
Solanum virginianum
92 l;=reuqrex.d mfj;jp Scarlet Wistaria Tree Aeschynomene grandiflora
Agati grandiflora
Sesbania grandiflora
93 lfkare musp oleander Nerion oleandrum
Nerium carneum
Nerium oleander
94 lmamrj,a,sh fw;Guty;yp indian borage Coleus amboinicus
Coleus aromaticus
Plectranthus amboinicus
95 lmq fw;G{uk; tree cotton Camphor Cinnamon
Gossypium anomalum
Gossypium arboreum
96 lmqlsksiai musk mallow Abelmoschus abelmoschus
ntz;b Abelmoschus betulifolia
Abelmoschus moschatus
97 lmqre camphor Camphor Cinnamon
98 lnri kiyj;jhkiu Smilax ceylanica Oken
Smilax collina Kunth
99 lïmS,a, fgpy kumkum tree Mallotus philippensis
100 lr| indian beech Cajum pinnatum
Cytisus pinnatus
Gq;F Pongamia pinnata
101 lrmsxp fwpNtg;gpiy curry leaf Bergera koenigii
Camunium koenigii
Murraya koenigii
102 lrU rpWfpsha; Conkerberry Antura edulis
Antura hadiensis
Carissa spinarum
103 lr,aiefnda ehAUtp devil's horsewhip Achyranthes acuminata
Achyranthes aspera

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
53a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Achyranthes aspera
104 lrú, ghfy; Bitter gourd, Cucumis argyi
Cucumis intermedius
Momordica charantia
105 lrdnq fuhk;G Clove Caryophyllus aromaticus
Caryophyllus hortensis
Syzygium aromaticum
106 l,d÷re Nfhiu Coco Grass Chlorocyperus rotundus
Chlorocyperus salaamensis
Cyperus rotundus
107 l¿leïfïßh kzy; jf;fhsp american Black 
Nightshade
Solanum amarantoides
Solanum americanum
Solanum americanum
108 l¨ ÿre fUQ;rPufk; Black cumin Nigella sativa
109 l¨ jd
110 liô,shd ngUk; fhQ;nrhup Hawaii Woodnettle Boehmeria interrupta
Boehmeria javanica
Laportea interrupta
111 lfiarel$lfiare greater club rush Scirpus grossus
112 ly$w;aly turmeric Amomum curcuma
Curcuma brog
kQ;rs; Curcuma longa
113 lyg$j.mq,a wild guava Barringtonia arborea
Careya orbiculata
Careya arborea
114 ldflda,s Hardy Ginger Roscoea purpurea
115 ldurx.d star fruit Averrhoa acutangula
jhkuj;ij Averrhoa pentandra
Averrhoa carambola
116 ld,fï> rpwpahs;eQ;if green chiretta Andrographis paniculata
117 ld,od;d
118 lelsß Jk;kl;b muskmelon Bryonia collosa
Bryonia collosa
Cucumis melo
119 lel=K ehl;L mfNuhl;L the candlenut Aleurites ambinux
Aleurites angustifolius
Aleurites moluccana
120 leysms;a;ka nghd; KRk;il indian moon-seed Clypea burmanni

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
54a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Cocculus burmanni .
Cyclea peltata
121 lE, gyhR flame-of-the-forest Butea monosperma
122 lsvdrx fUizf;fpoq;F Elephant Foot y am Amorphophallus campanulatus
Amorphophallus campanulatus
Amorphophallus paeoniifolius
123 ls;=,a fpj;Js; jaggery palm Caryota urens
124 ls‚ysÍ fhl;L gUj;jp Buttercup Tree, Bombax gossypium
Bombax religiosum
Cochlospermum religiosum
125 lsßw.=K FwpQ;rh Green milkweed Climber Apocynum tiliifolium
Asclepias viridiflora
Wattakaka volubilis
126 lsßnÿ epyg;G{rzp railway Creeper Apopleumon bignonioides
Batatas bignonioides
Ipomoea mauritiana
127 lSlsß¢h false daisy Abasoloa taboada
Acmella lanceolata
fuprpyhq;fz;zp Eclipta prostrata
128 l=xl=umamq
129 l=l=reudka kJf;fhiu Emetic nut Randia dumetorum
130 l=vqñßi orange climber. Cranzia aculeata
Cranzia asiatica
Toddalia asiatica
131 l=kaÿrelalka 'indian frankincense Boswellia serrata
132 l=mamfïksh Fg;igNkdp indian mercury Acalypha canescens
Acalypha caroliniana
Acalypha indica
133 l=Uqla arjun tree Myrobalanus cuneata
Pentaptera angustifolia
kUJ Terminalia arjuna
134 l=Uqre fow;rp Grey Nicker Bonduc canadense
Bonduc minus
Caesalpinia bonduc
135 l=re÷ Ceylon cinnamon Camphora mauritiana
Camphorina cinnamomum
fWth Cinnamomum verum
136 l=Y;K ju;g;ig halfa grass Desmostachya Bipinnata
137 l+r mwf;fPiu slender amaranth Albersia caudata

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
55a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Albersia gracilis
Amaranthus viridis
138 flláh Wavy-edged aponogeton Aponogeton echinatus
Spathium crispum
Aponogeton crispus
139 lDñYia;D
140 fl<s| Flrg;ghiy Tellicherry bark Holarrhena antidysenterica
141 fl<s|yd,a Tellicherry bark Holarrhena antidysenterica
142 flfi,a thio bananas Musa paradisiaca
143 fldl=ïfmd;= red mango Trigonocarpus littoralis
Kokoona zeylanica
144 fldÜgï Nfh];lk; Costus root. it Saussurea lappa
145 fldÜgïnd Sea almond Badamia commersonii
Buceras catappa
Terminalia catappa
146 fldgÈUq,d Hairy Fig Covellia assamica
Covellia courtallensis
Ngaj;jp Ficus hispida
147 fld;a;u,a,s nfhj;jky;yp coriander Coriandrum sativum
148 fld;,ysUqgq Salacia Salacia reticulata
149 fldajlald nfht;it ivy Gourd Bryonia acerifolia
Bryonia alceifolia
Coccinia grandis
150 fldys, Spiny lasia Dracontium spinosum
Lasia aculeata
nfhfpy Lasia spinosa
151 fldfydU Ntk;G neem Antelaea azadirachta
Antelaea canescens
Azadirachta indica
152 fldfnda,S, nts;is ke;jhiu white orchid-tree Bauhinia linnaei
Casparia acuminata
Bauhinia acuminata
153 fldrdidks
154 fld,a,ï fjpu;gr;ir indian patchouli Pogostemon heyneanus
155 fld,a¨ nfhs;S horse gram Dolichos uniflorus
Glycine uniflora
Macrotyloma uniflorum
156 fldf<dï kQ;rf; flk;G yellow teak Haldina cordifolia
Nauclea cordifolia

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
56a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Haldina cordifolia
157 fldaka;d,ï flk;gk; Common putat Barringtonia racemosa
158 fldaudßld fw;whis medicinal aloe Aloe barbadensis
Aloe barbadensis
Aloe vera
159 laIjl$úI¥,s Spreading Sneeze Weed Artemisia minima
Artemisia orbicularis
kupf;nfhOe;J Centipeda minima
160 laISr ldflda,s white Himalayan lily Lilium polyphyllum
161 .xiQßh portia tree Bupariti altissima
Bupariti populnea
GtuR Thespesia populnea
162 .c;smams,s Midj;jpg;gyp Scindapsus officinalis
163 .ïud¨ $wik Ntq;if malabar kino Lingoum marsupium
Pterocarpos marsupius
Pterocarpus marsupium
164 .ïñßia kpsF black pepper, Muldera multinervis
Piper aromaticum
Piper nigrum
165 .,al+r gpz;zhf;ff; fPiu the chocolateweed Geruma subtriloba
Hibiscus donii
Melochia corchorifolia
166 .,sia Gardenia crameri
167 .ialemafmÜáh njg;gb Croton laccifer
168 .iafmfk, gziy three-leaf soapberry, Sapindus abstergens
Sapindus acutus
Sapindus trifoliata
169 .egfkgq,a gpuha; Siamese rough bush Achymus pallens
Achymus patens
Streblus asper
170 .sß;s,a, rKj;jpug;ghiy Elephant creeper Argyreia populifolia
Argyreia populifolia
Argyreia populiolia
171 .=.=,a Ff;FY indian bdellium-tree Commiphora wightii
172 .=/kao stinkwood Celtis cinnamomea
Celtis crenatoserrata
Celtis timorensis
173 f.dxlelsß nkhRnkhRf;if madras pea pumpkin Bryonia cordifolia
Bryonia gracilis

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
57a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Mukia maderaspatana
174 f.dgqfld< ty;yhiu asiatic pennywort Centella asiatica
Centella boninensis
Centella asiatica
175 f.dvlÿre vl;b poison nut, Strychnos nux-vomica
Strychnos ovalifolia Stokes
Strychnos nux-vomica
176 f.dvudfk,a tpr%q;fpy; Wild onion milk and 
Wine lily
Amaryllis insignis
Amaryllis littoralis
Crinum latifolium
177 pdW,auq.%d Janli almond Hydnocarpus wightianus
178 Ök w, China root Cacalia bulbosa
Cacalia maculata
Gynura pseudo-china
179 cgdudxi [lhkhQ;rpy; spikenard Nardostachys jatamansi
180 chmd, purging croton Alchornea vaniotii
Alchornea vaniotii
Neu;thsk; Croton tiglium
181 c,fõ;i
182 Ôjl [Ptfk; Jeevak Microstylis wallichii
Malaxis acuminata
183 Ôjka;s ghiyf;nfhb Cork Swallow-Wort Leptadenia reticulata
184 ;Kyd,a jpid Foxtail millet Alopecurus caudatus
Chaetochloa germanica
Setaria italica
185 ;U, Fukien tea tree Carmona heterophylla
Fuq;F ntw;wpiy Carmona microphylla
Carmona retusa
186 ;,a gid palmyra palm Borassus flabelliformis
Borassus sundaicus
Borassus flabellifer
187 ;, Sesame Anthadenia sesamoides
Sesamum africanum
vs; Sesamum indicum
188 ;,sia Himalayan silver fir Abies webbiana
189 ;e,a Wild petunia Convolvulus obscurus
rpWjhsp Ipomoea obscura
190 ;s;a;,nq bottle gourd Lagenaria siceraria

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
58a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
191 ;s;a; jegfld¿ Nga;gPu;f;F Bitter Sponge Gourd Luffa echinata
192 ;s;a;je,a
193 ;smams,s jpg;gyp long pepper Chavica longa
Chavica roxburghii
Piper longum
194 ;smams,s uq,a jpg;gyp Ntu; long pepper Chavica longa
Chavica roxburghii
Piper longum
195 ;síngq turkey berry, Solanum acanthifolium
Solanum amoenum
Rz;il Solanum torvum
196 ;sôß malabar Ebony, Diospyros biflora
Diospyros citrifolia
Diospyros malabarica
197 ;s/ia;ajd¨ rptij turpeth Operculina turpethum
198 ;sßÕ= NfhJik Common wheat Triticum aestivum
199 ;s,mqIamS$äðgd,sia eupg;Gifapiy purple foxglove Digitalis purpurea
200 ;=kam;a l=re÷ Winged Naringi. Anisifolium alatum
FUe;J Hesperethusa alata
Pleiospermium alatum
201 ;=U Ceylon slitwort Leucasia zeylanica
Phlomis gracilis
KbJk;ig Leucas zeylanica
202 ;=U lrú, nkOFg;ghfy; spiny gourd Momordica dioeca
Momordica hamiltoniana
Momordica dioica
203 ;=jr,d indian Valerian Valeriana harmsii
Valeriana hygrobia
Valleriana jatamansi
204 f;nq Nfhl;lk; Crepe Ginger Amomum arboreum
Amomum hirsutum
Costus speciosus
205 f;,lSßh Milky Mangrove Commia cochinchinensis
mfjp Excoecaria affinis
Excoecaria agallocha
206 f;alal Njf;F teak Tectona grandis
207 f;acm;% jhsprgj;jpup indian bay leaf Cinnamomum tamala
208 f;dá, ghiyAilr;rp midnight Horror Arthrophyllum ceylanicum
Arthrophyllum reticulatum

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
59a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Oroxylum indicum
209 ;%dhudKd fk;ge;jpiu indian Gentian Gentian kurroa
210 oolSßh mk;khd;gr;ruprp Hairy Spurge Euphorbia Hirta
211 o¿la rJuf;fs;sp antique spurge Euphorbia antiquorum
Euphorbia arborescens
Euphorbia antiquorum
212 odreyßød indian barberry Berberis aristata
213 fjksje,a kukQ;rs; False Calumba Coscinium maingayi
Coscinium miosepalum
Coscinium fenestratum
214 oe;a; nghLjiy Turkey Tangle Fogfruit Phyla nodiflora
215 oej
216 Èhmr~e,a
217 oEiuka rhjpky;ypif Spanish Jasmine Jasminum grandiflorum
218 Èhñ;a; tl;lj;jpUg;gp Velvet leaf Cissampelos acuminata
Cissampelos argentea
Cissampelos pareira
219 Èhñfo,a, powder-puff tree Barringtonia apiculata
Barringtonia caffra
flk;gk; Barringtonia racemosa
220 Èh,nq Ruf;fha; Bottle Gourd Adenopus abyssinicus
Cucumis bicirrha
Lagenaria siceraria
221 Èhynr, hastate-leaved pondweed Calcarunia hastata
Carigola hastata
fUq;Ftia Monochoria hastata
222 ÿïue,a, GNlhy; Snake Gourd Trichosanthes cucumerina
223 Èjq,a tpsh wood-apple Anisifolium curvispina
Anisifolium limonia
Limonia acidissima
224 ÿyq÷ black oil plant Alsodeia glabra
thSYit Catha paniculata
Celastrus paniculatus
225 foug asian Bushbeech Bignonia discolor
Fkpo; Bignonia moluccana
Gmelina asiatica
226 fo¿ï pomegranate Granatum punicum
khJis Punica florida
Punica granatum

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
60a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
227 foys vYkpr;ir West indian lime, Citrus × acida
Citrus × aurantiifolia
Citrus aurantifolia
228 foajodr NjtjhW deodar cedar Cedrus Deodara
229 foõÿre
230 fodU Gd;id alexandrian laurel balltree Balsamaria inophyllum
Calophyllum apetalum
Calophyllum inophyllum
231 foaõod,s Nga;g;gPu;f;f Bristly luffa Luffa echinata
232 Okajhdi Fagonia cretica
233 kjykaÈ nfhk;Gf;fs;sp indian tree spurge Euphorbia tirucalli
234 kiakdrx panama orange Citrofortunella madurensis
Atalantia hindsii
Citrus madurensis
235 kd ehfkuk; Ceylon ironwood Calophyllum nagassarium
Mesua ferrea
Mesua ferrea
224 kdmsß;a;d Wild Hibiscus Furcaria furcellata
Furcaria roxburghii
Hibiscus furcatus
237 kdrx loose -skinned orange. Citrus crenatifolia
238 ksl nehr;rp Five-leaved Chaste Tree Agnus-castus negundo
Vitex agnus-castus
Vitex negundo
239 ksÈl=ïn njhl;lhy;Ruq;fp sensitive plant Eburnax pudica
Mimosa pudica
240 kq. My; the banyan Ficus banyana
Ficus chauvieri
Ficus benghalensis
241 fkßúI
242 fkfrxÑ rpWneUQ;rpy; puncture vine Hedysarum uniflorum
Tribulus acanthococcus
Tribulus terrestris
243 fk,a,s ney;yp indian gooseberry Cicca emblica
Cicca macrocarpa
Phyllanthus emblica
244 fk¿ï nre;jhkiu indian lotus Nelumbium album
Nelumbium asiaticum
Nelumbo nucifera

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
61a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
245 ma;amdv.ï gw;glhfk; Two-flowered Oldenlandia Gerontogea corymbosa
Hedyotis biflora
Oldenlandia corymbosa
246 m;Õs sappanwood Caesalpinia angustifolia
Caesalpinia sapang
gjk;fk; Caesalpinia sappan
247 mUqre Wild manarine Atalantia missionis
Chilocalyx elliptica
Pamburus missionis
248 mßmamq Jtiu pigeon pea, Cajanum thora
Cajanus bicolor
Cajanus cajan
249 mrEIl phalsa Grewia asiatica
250 mf,d,a ghjpup messenger of Spring Bignonia chelonoides
Bignonia gratis
Stereospermum suaveolens
251 meÕsßudka rpj;jpundy;yh Citronella Grass Andropogon citrosus
Andropogon confertiflorus
Cymbopogon nardus
252 ms, mTup purple Tephrosia Cracca purpurea
Galega purpurea
Tephrosia purpurea
253 mS;lfrdaik
254 mqmq, Fg;gpsha; Cacalia zeylanica
Eupatorium zeylanicum
Vernonia zeylanica
255 mq,s, South indian Fig Ficus caulobotrya
Ficus infectoria
fy;My; Ficus tsjahela
256 mqjla fKF areca-nut Areca catechu
Areca catechu
Areca catechu
257 mqiaje,a ahidf;nfhopQ;rp Sea-bean Adenanthera gogo Blanco
Entada cirrhosa
Entada pusaetha
258 mqyq,a ePw;Wg;Grdp ash-pumpkin Benincasa cerifera
Benincasa cylindrica
Benincasa hispida
259 fmfk, Balloon Vine Cardiospermum acuminatum

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
62a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Klf;fj;jhd; Cardiospermum corycodes
Cardiospermum halicacabum
260 fmreïldhï ngUq;fhak; assa-foetida Ferula assa-foetida
261 fmar nfha;ah Guava Guajava pumila
262 fmd,a Njq;fha; coconut Cocos nucifera
263 fmd,am,d Njq;fha;G{fPiu mountain knotgrass Achyranthes lanata
Achyranthes lanata
Aerva lanata
264 m%idr‚ Kjpahu; $e;jy; skunkvine Apocynum foetidum
Gentiana scandens
Paederia foetida
265 m%shx.= fhl;Lf;Fkpo; Beauty berry Callicarpa macrophylla
266 nínq, fUNty; Egyptian Thorn Babul tree Acacia arabica
Acacia nilotica
Acacia nilotica
267 n%dyañ gpukp water hyssop Bacopa monnieri
268 ng reed bamboo Bambusa stridula Moon
,Us; Beesha stridula Munro
Ochlandra stridula
269 ndl=Ñ fhu;Nghf muprp purple Fleabane Psoralea corylifolia
270 nodñ thJik The almond Prunus amygdalus Baill
271 neú, gok;ghrp common wireweed Sida resamosa
Sida arrudiana
Sida acuta
272 ìxW!re
273 ìxfldfydU epyNtk;G Ground bitter Ebermaiera pulchella
Melia pumila Moon
Munronia pinnata
274 ìx;,a epyg;gid golden eye-grass Curculigo brevifolia
Curculigo densa
Curculigo orchioides
275 ìxkq. eQ;rWg;ghd; indian-ipecacuanha Tylophora indica
276 nqre,a, Bandicoot Berry Common 
Tree-Vine
Aquilicia ottilis
Aquilicia sambucina
Leea indica
277 nq,;a ntw;wpiy Betel Piper betle
278 nq¿ jhd;wp Bedda nut tree Buceras bellirica
Myrobalanus bellirica

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
63a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
Terminalia bellirica
279 fn,s tpy;tk; bael Aegle marmelos
Belou marmelos
Aegle marmelos
280 fíokï
281 fnda, myrrh Commiphora myrrha
282 uoáh Midf;Fz;Lkzp red Bead Tree Adenanthera gersenii
Adenanthera polita
Adenanthera pavonina
283 uokldu portwine magnolia Liriopsis fuscata
Magnolia annonifolia
Magnolia fuscata
284 f.dgqfld< ty;yhiu asiatic pennywort Centella asiatica
Centella boninensis
Centella asiatica
285 uÿre;,d Jsrp holy basil Geniosporum tenuiflorum
Lumnitzera tenuiflora
Ocimum tenuiflorum
286 u,s; Fire Flame Bush Acistoma coccineum
Grislea punctata
Woodfordia fruticosa
287 uhs, Mj;jp the bidi leaf tree Bauhinia parviflora
Bauhinia racemosa
Buhinia racemosa
288 uianeoao rpWFwpQ;rh australian cowplant Gymnema sylvestre
289 uiajekak dragon's Scale Fern Drymoglossum heterophyllum
290 uika Common jujube Paliurus mairei
,ye;ij Rhamnus jujuba
291 uyÿre ngUQ;rPufk; common fennel Foeniculum vulgare
292 uyß thif East indian walnut Albizia lebbeck
293 udox ehty; Java plum, Syzygium cumini
294 udilald
295 udfk,a Mk;gy; blue lotus Nymphaea nouchali
296 uevyÕ= cj;jkhfhzp the trellis-vine Pergularia daemia
297 ñxÑ Gjpdh mint Mentha piperita
298 ñÈ Remna latifolia
299 uqoaoriam,ï jpuhl;ir Common grape vine Vitis vinifera
300 ó.ia ,Yg;ig butter tree Madhuca longifolia
301 uqx weg gaW green gram Vigna radiata

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
64a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
302 uqxjekak
303 uql=Kqjekak nghd;dhq;fhzp sessile joyweed Alternanthera sessilis
304 uqvuyK nfhl;ilf;fue;ij East indian globe thistle Sphaeranthus indicus
305 uqrdudxis
306 uqrex.d KUq;if drumstick tree Moringa oleifera
307 uqrejd ngUq;FwpQ;rh rajmahal Hemp Marsdenia tenacissima
308 uqjlSßh
309 uQku,a kfpo; bullet wood Mimusops elengi
310 fudKrl=vqïìh nea;r;rpl;b little iron Weed Vernonia cinerea
311 fudr nrk;Gtk; dragon's eye Dimocarpus longan
312 hlafíßh fpYfpYg;ig the blue rattlepod Crotalaria verrucosa
313 hljkiai uzNgup Christmas candlestick Leonotis nepetiifolia
314 hlskdrx Nga;FUe;J Ceylon atalantia Atalantia ceylanica
315 hj thw;NfhJik Barley Hordeum vulgare
316 hjdi fhQ;Nrhup camelthorn Alhagi Camelorum
317 Okajhdi Jyfehup Virgin's mantle Fagonia cretica
318 rg b¢ NguPe;j date palm Phoenix dactylifera
319 rgf;dar tz;Lnfhy;yp candle bush Cassia alata
320 rKjrd Mthiu Tanner's Cassia Cassia auriculata
321 r;alsysßh red Cutch Acacia chundra
322 r;aksgq,a nrq;nfhbNtyp Scarlett leadwort Plumbago indica
323 r;au,a scarlet jungle flame Ixora coccinea
324 r;ay÷ka nrQ;re;jdk; red sandalwood Pterocarpus santalinus
325 r;=Ækq ntq;fhak; red onion Allium cepa
326 rkalsßf.dlgq gpukjz;L mexican poppy Argemone mexicana
327 ¨ k¨ 
328 ú,a¨ kq
329 j,arils| Zanonia indica
330 rUqla nrq;fUk;G hardy sugar cane Saccharum arundinaceum
331 rïuksiai eha;Ntis Asian spiderflower Cleome viscosa
332 rils| rPe;jpy; heart-leaved moonseed Tinospora cordifolia
333 rdcudI jl;ilg;gaW black-eye pea Vigna unguiculata
334 relaw.=K mopQ;rpy; sage-leaved alangium Alangium salviifolium
335 relaw;a;k Vopiyg;ghiy indian pulai Alstonia scholaris
336 relau,a ^m%shxÕ= & malaboda tree Horsfieldia iryaghedhi
337 reoka;s kupf;nfhOe;J rosin weed Cressa cretica
338 reoka;sl rosin weed Cressa cretica.
339 rEuia;ys

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
65a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
340 frdai eglantine rose Rosa Rubiginosa.
341 frdays;l Nuhrh pithraj Tree Aphanamixis polystachya
342 kshÕ,d fhu;j;jpifg;G Climbing lily Gloriosa superba
343 ¨ KqjrK khtpyq;F Garlic pear Tree Crateva adansonii
344 ¨ Kqú, gpukp water hyssop Bacopa monnieri
345 f,d;a nts;spNyhj;jpuk; lodhtree Symplocos racemosa
346 f,da¨ eWtpyp Snot berry Cordia monoica
347 j.mq,a ^lig& palm grass Molineria capitulate
348 jÉpkdú tw;rehgp aconite Aconitum ferox
349 joly trk;G sweet flag Acorus calamus
350 j÷reuE Gidf;fhyp monkey tamarind Mucuna pruriens
351 jrd vUf;F crown flower Calotropis gigantea
352 j,a wifudao.ï mrNkhjfk; Wild parsely Pimpinella heyneana
353 j,a bÕ= re ,Q;rp Cylindric Wild Ginger Zingiber cylindricum
354 j,aÆkq eupntq;fhak; Sea daffodil Pancratium zeylanicum
355 j,Õid,a tha;tplq;fk; false black pepper Embelia ribs
356 jidjdis rhjpf;fha; mace Myristica fragrans
357 j,ajrld
358 jrdyslkao ts;sp purple yam Dioscorea alata
359 jd,afud<Õ= 
360 úIaKql%dka;sh tp];Zfpuhe;jp dwarf morning-glory Evolvulus alsinoides
361 jegfla jhio screw pine Pandanus tectorius
362 je,a;síngq JhJtis purple fruited pea egg 
plant
Solanum trilobatum
363 je,auog kQ;rpl;b indian madder Rubia cordifolia
364 je,añ ed;dhup Black Sugar Glycerrhiza glabra
365 fj,a,ka.sßh Climbing atalantia Paramignya monophylla
366 fõ,d ey;yNtis african cabbage Cleome gynandra
367 fõje,a tQ;rp common rattan Calamus rotang
368 jDlaIdï, nfhuf;fha;Gsp Ceylon mangosteen Garcinia zeylanica
369  jDlaIdo;s
370 jDoaOodre rKj;jpug;ghiy Elephant creeper Argyreia speciosa
371 jDoaê
372 Yd,m¾‚ Gs;sb salparni Desmodium gangeticum
373 ilau,a tp];Zfpuhe;jp roundleaf Bindweed. Evolvulus nummularius
374 i;l=mam dill Anethum graveolens
375 i,a ntz;Fq;fpypak; Sal tree Shorea robusta
376 imai| ML jPz;lhg;ghiy The indian Birthwort Aristolochia indica
377 idÈlald rhjpf;fha; nutmeg Myristica fragrans

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
66a
wxl/ 
No./ 
,y
isxy, ku/ 
Sinhala name/ 
rpq;fsg;ngau;
fou< ku/ Tamil 
name / jkpo;g;ngau;
bx.%Sis ku/ English name 
/ Mq;fpyg;ngau;
úoHd;aul kduh/ Scientific 
name /mwptpaw;ngau;
378 idrK %f;fpul;il spreading hogweed Boerhavia diffusa
379 id,ïnq
380 iejekaord ntl;bNtu; vetiver Vetiveria zizanioides
381 iskafldakd rpq;Nfhdh Cinchona Cinchona officinalis
382 ishU,d Gsp Tamarind tree Tamarindus indica
383 isßf;alal= rpWNjf;F Blue-flowered Glory Tree Clerodendrum serratum
384 isß,
385 isßjgq
386 isúh Cubeb Piper chavya
387 iqÿÿre ew;rPufk; Cumin Cuminum cyminum
388 iqÿÆkq cs;sp Garlic Allium sativum
389 iqÿy÷ka ntz;re;jdk; white sandalwood Santalum ellipticum
Santalum myrtifolium
Santalum album
390 fixfldÜgx Nruhq;nfhl;il marking nut Semecarpus anacardium
391 fifkfyfld< epythif Tinnevelly Senna Cassia senna
392 fiamd,sld gtsky;ypif Night Blooming Jasmine Nyctanthes arbor-tristis
393 yk rzy; brown hemp, Crotalaria juncea
394 ymQId common junipe Juniperus communis
395 ynr, upright elephant ears, Alocasia macrorrhizos
396 yrxly Gyhd; fpoq;F white turmeric Curcuma zedoaria
397 yf¾kql lurid Himalayan 
monkshood
Aconitum novoluridum
398 y,a Fq;fpypak; Vateria copallifera
399 yd;djdßh rhj;jhthup Spiny asparagus Asparagus racemosus
400 ysla xjp indian ash tree Lannea coromandelica
401 ysÕ= remgje,a incha palinja Soap bark Acacia caesia
402 ysÕ= remsh,s Spiked ginger lily Hedychium spicatum
403 ySx ksÈl=ïnd reinwardt's Tree plant Biophytum reinwardtii
404 yS/iai gpuz;il veldt grape Cissus quadrangularis
405 fyd~, jhdpf;fPiu Hondala Adenia hondala
406 fydr Dipterocarpus zeylanicus
407 moauldIag Himalayan wild cherry. Prunus cerasoides

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
67a
Lksc T!IO ,ehsia;=j/ List of Mineral Medicines  /fdpk kUe;Jfspd; gl;bay;
wxl/ No./ 
,y.
isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / 
rpq;fsg; ngau;
1 w÷kaleg
2 wïnr
3 w¿yqKq
4 l¿ Bhï
5 l¿ ueá
6 liSia
7 ldka;mdIdK
8 lsß.re~
9 lsßueá
10 L¾mqr
11 .,a wÕ= re
12 .,a kyr
13 .,a uo
14 f.kao.ï
15 f.dfïo
16 f.!ÍmdIdKï
17 pkaøldka;
18 pm,
19 ;U
20 ;,d;=ñksrka
21 Èhuka;s
22 fodarje,s
23 kjidrï
24 kS,ud‚lH
25 m,audkslalï
26 m,sÕ= 
27 mqialr
28 mqIamrd.
29 fmafrdacl
30 n<,a¨ Kq
31 ufkdaiS,

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
68a
wxl/ No./ 
,y.
isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / 
rpq;fsg; ngau;
32 ud‚lH ^r;=leg&
33 ueá
34 uqyqÿ ¨ Kq
35 uDoaodrYDx.
36 hlv
37 hfndr
38 hjlr ¨ Kq
39 r;arka
40 rgyqKq
41 riÈh
42 rdcdj¾;
43 ß§
44 ß§;=;a:
45 frdaul ¨ Kq
46 f,dalv
47 je,s
48 úu,
49 úhkaÿUq¨ 
50 ùÿreje,s
51 fjä¨ Kq
52 ffjl%dka;
53 ffjfrdä 
54 iú| ¨ Kq
55 ijqlalrï
56 idÈ,sx.ï
57 isxÿr
58 isjx.=re
59 iSklaldrï
60 iqÿ Bhï
61 iqji ¨ Kq
62 iQrHaldka; mdIdK
63 iajðlaIdr
64 Ys,dc;=
65 ysßh,a
66 yqKq
Etc.,

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
69a
i;ajc T!IO kdu f,aLkh/ List of Veterinary Medicines  / fhy;eil kUe;Jfspd; gl;bay;
wxl/ No./ 
,y.
isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / 
rpq;fsg; ngau;
1 weál=l=<d
2 we;d
3 we;a o<
4 bÈnqjd
5 Wre,E iÜgka
6 t<.jhd
7 lÕfõKd
8 lia;=ß
9 lsß
10 t<lsß
11 t¿lsß
12 ;klsß
13 ólsß
14 flacq
15 .evú,d
16 .sf;,a
17 f.dafrdapk
18 t<.sf;,a
19 ;,f.dhd
20 Èñhd
21 §lsß
22 § fmr,s Èh
23 ìïuq,a
24 uia
25 t¿ uia
26 W!re uia
27 l=l=¿ ì;a;r
28 weál=l=¿ niakh
29 l¿lsls,s niakh
30 f;da¾ niakh
31 ii niakh
32 ó bá
33 ó .jhd

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
70a
wxl/ No./ 
,y.
isxy, ku/ Sinhala name / 
rpq;fsg; ngau;
34 ó me‚
35 ó ñkakd
36 uqjd
37 uq;%
38 fudKrd
39 f.dauq;%
40 fudare
41 ,dlv
42 úI
43 i¾m úI
44 fj~re
45 yxihd
46 ydjd
47 ljä
48 mn¿
49 uq;=
50 uq;=fn,slgq
51 uqyqÿ fmK
52 yla
Etc.,
part ii
DECLARED ARTICLES, SUbSTANCES AND DRUGS 
articles, substances and drugs include any Siddha, Unani, Deshiya Chikithsa (Traditional) or indigenous medicines, which 
shall be similar to following articles, drugs and substances used in other countries.
Articles
any instrument, apparatus, appliance, software material or any other article, whether use single or in combination including 
the software necessary for its proper application intended by the manufacture using on human beings.
     • medical technologies (WHo medical device technical series)
     • Custom-made devices
     •  assistive devices 
     • Cosmetic devices
     • personal protective equipment
     •  iCT products
     • iVds

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
71a
Ayurveda Classification
hka;% 
blunt instruments (Yantras)
Yia;% 
Sharp instruments (Sastras)
1' iajiaÓl hka;%
Cruciform instruments (Svastika yantras)24
2' ikaoxY hka;%
Dissecting forceps or tongs (Sandansha yantras) 2
3' ;, hka;%
Spoon shaped instruments (Tala yantras) 2  
4' kdä hka;%
Tubular instruments (Nadi yantras) 20 
5' Y,dl hka;%
Rod like instruments (Shalaka yantras) 28
1' uKav,d.% Yia;%
Circular knife (Mandalagra sastra)
2' Lrm;% Yia;%
bone saw (Karapatra)
3' jDoaêm;% Yia;%
Scalpel (Vrddhipatra)
4' jL Yia;%
Nail parer (Nakhasastra)
5' uqøsl Yia;%
Ring knife (Mudrika)
6' W;am,m;% Yia;%
Lancet (Utpalapatra)
7' w¾OOdrd Yia;%
Single edged knife (Ardhadhara)
8' iqÑ Yia;%
Suturing needle (Suci sastra)
9' l=im;% Yia;%
bistoury (Kusapatra)
10' w;suqL Yia;%
Hawk bill scissors (Atimukha)
11' irdÍuqL Yiq;% (Scissors (Sararimukha)

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
72a
hka;% 
blunt instruments (Yantras)
Yia;% 
Sharp instruments (Sastras)
12' wka;ruqL Yia;%
curved bistoury (Amataramukha)
13' ;s%l+¾pl Yia;%
Three edged knife (Trikurcaka)
14' l=;dßld Yia;%
Chisel (Kutharika)
15' ù%ySuqL Yia;%
Trocar (Vrihimukha)
16' wrd Yia;%
Awl (Ara)
17' fõ;im;%l Yia;%
Scalpel of different type (Vetasapatraka)
18' n§Y Yia;%
Sharp hook (badisa)
19' oka;YxL Yia;%
Tooth scaler (Dantasanku)
20' taIŒ Yia;%
Sharp probe (Esani sastra)
Substances and Drugs
 ■ raw/ crude drugs
 ■ Extracts
 ■ Compound formulations
 ■ Herbo mineral formulations
 ■ Kasaya
 ■ Kvatha 

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
73a
 ■ Asava and Arista
 ■ Arka / Avaleha / Leha / Paka
 ■ Kvatha Chuma
 ■ Guggulu
 ■ Chuma
 ■ Granules
 ■ Ghrita/taila
 ■ Lavana ksara
 ■ Lepa
 ■ Vati and Gutika / pilla
 ■ Netra bindu and Anjana
 ■ Parpati
 ■ Pisti
 ■ Mandura
 ■ Rasayoga
 ■ Lauha
 ■ Dhoopa / Dhooma
 ■ Bhasma 
 ■ Granules
 ■ Extract powders (powdered extracts)
 
 ■ Syrup / Suspension
 ■ Fluid extracts
 ■ oral emulsions
 ■ Herbal oils
 ■ aromatic waters
 ■ ointment / cream / lotion

<!-- page 74 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
74a
 ■ Capsule
 ■ Caplets
 ■ Tablets
 ■ pills
 ■ Herbal toothpaste
 ■ Herbal soap
 ■ Herbal injectable forms
 ■ herbal cosmeceuticals
 ■ Herbal inhalers
 ■ Confectioneries
 ■ dusting powder
 ■ Suppositories/ pessaries
 ■ lozenges
 ■ gargles/ mouth wash/ mouth paint
 ■ medicinal sprays
 ■ plasters Etc.,

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
75a
Schedule II
Form A
Application for Registration / Renewal of a Manufactory of Ayurveda Article, Substance or Drug 
For official use only
File No/ registration No: -
money order/ receipt No: -
date of issue:  -
Signature of subject officer: -
First time registration           
Annual registration      
(Put the “” sign in the appropriate box.)
1. applicants’ details 
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 National identity card/ passport / driving license No: -
1.4 profession: -
1.5 post at drug manufactory: - 
1.6 Telephone No: -                      Fixed: - mobile: -
1.7 Email address: -
2. details of drug company/ institution
2.1 Name of company/ institution: -
2.2 address: -
2.3 Telephone number: -
2.4 Email address: -
2.5 Business registration certificate number: - 
date of issue: -
2.6 if registered under department of ayurveda,
Registration certificate no: -
date of issue: -
2.7 date of establishment of company/institution: -
3. details of  manufactory (pharmacy)
3.1 Name of  manufactory : -
3.2 address: -

<!-- page 76 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
76a
3.3 province: -
district: -
divisional secretariate: -
Grama Niladhari division and No: -
3.4 rate No: -
3.5 Telephone No: -      
3.6 Email address: -
3.7 if registered under department of ayurveda, 
Registration certificate no: -
date of issue: -
3.8 date of establishment of drug manufactory: -
4. details of consultant physician
4.1 Full name of physician: -
4.2 ayurveda medical council registration No: -                                     General/Special
date of registration: - date of renewal: -
4.3 registration Section:-
Number of Special registration (if availa
4.4 address: -
4.5 Telephone no: -                                Fixed: -                                             mobile: -
4.6 Email address: -
5. details of product
5.1 Name of the product according to ayurveda/ Siddha/Unani/Traditional medicines pharmacopeia: -
5.2 Trade name of the product: -
5.3 Nature of product: -
medicine diet and nutritional supplemen -
tary products
Cosmetic products      devices
5.4 Therapeutic indications/uses of product: -
5.5 if you have obtained registration for this product under department of ayurveda: 
registration number first-time: -                                                         Date: -
registration number last -time: -                                                         date: -
5.6 Has any research been done on this product in Sri Lanka after first registration? (yes/no)
If yes, briefly describe the results (attach a copy of the report/publication)

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
77a
6. if the product is a medicine, 
6.1 if the product is medicine, mention the Name of text/page/recipe no: - 
please mention whether this medicine obtained from Classical texts/ pharmacopeia/Traditional base
6.2 is it a new product,
mention the recipe (to be prepared separate document): -
Certificate of legal provision in the relevant country: -
6.3 dose and dosage: -
6.4 route of administration: - 
External application orally inhalation Vasthi Nasya others
7. if the product is exported, give details
Serial 
No.
category
(raw materials/ 
medicines/ 
packaging material/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients etc.)
Types of raw 
materials/ medicines/ 
packaging material/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients) to be 
exported
Countries 
expected to 
export
Name and address 
of the foreign 
company
Export 
Quantity 
(Kg / Unit) 
last year
Expected 
export 
quantity for 
next year (Kg 
/ units)
8. details of imported material used in the preparation of production (if available)
8.1 Whether imported materials are used in the preparation of medicine? yes/No
8.2 if yes, Name of institution issued license for importation of materials
8.3
license No: -
date: -
8.4 Country of import
8.5 Name of the raw material manufacturer in relevant country
8.6 address 
8.7 list of imported raw materials (relevant documents to be submitted)
8.8
Has any processed products been imported to be used as a raw material in the 
product?
yes/No
8.9
if yes, name / names of processed products imported as raw materials

<!-- page 78 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
78a
8.10
Has separate approval obtained from department of ayurveda to import such 
product?
yes/No
8.11
if yes, the referral letter number
date: -
9. details whether raw materials included in this product are restricted by the rules and regulations imposed in Sri 
lanka :
Serial
No.
Type of 
ingredients 
restricted by 
law
district and 
divisional 
Secretariat where 
the relevant raw 
materials are 
procured
address of 
the place of 
procurement 
of the relevant 
raw materials
license 
number 
and date of 
approval for 
the use of 
the relevant 
ingredients
Quantity of raw 
materials used in 
above product last 
year (Kg / Unit)
Quantity 
expected to be 
procured in 
next year (Kg 
/ Unit)
10. details of preservatives / excipients of the product (if available):
Serial 
No.
Type of preservatives/
excipients contained in the 
product
Quantity and percentage 
per unit to be used for the 
above product
amount of material 
used last year for the 
above product (Kg / 
Unit)
amount expected to 
be procured in next 
year (Kg / Unit)
    11.Certificate of Consultant Physician 
i, …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(Name) holder of 
National identity card No………………………………………of …………………………………………………………
………………………………………………(address) the consultant ayurvedic medical practitioner of the above named 
institution/ayurvedic drug manufacturing company hereby certify that i abide by the registered ayurvedic medical 
practitioners  rules No. 1 of 2014 made under the ayurvedic act No .31 of 1961 and that i am legally responsible for 
standard of the products and in connection therewith manufactured under my supervision and that i will provide my services 
full time and that i will be held responsible and will be responsible  personally for the correctness of all information 
disclosed under No. 4 hereto
Signature of ayurveda practitioner: -                                                               date: -
Official Seal

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
79a
12. declaration of applicant: -
i hereby certify that the information given in the application is true and correct. i am personally responsible and liable for 
the accuracy of all information furnished herein.
Signature of applicant: -                                                                                    date: -
Official Seal
Official use only
money order No: -
receipt No: -
document submitted date: -
Note :Complete  / incomplete  / Forged document  / Complaints 
Name and signature of person received: -
Note: Completed check-list, document containing all necessary details and product samples, equivalent to market release 
samples as required, should be handed over along with this application by the consulting ayurvedic practitioner to the 
technical division of the Department of ayurveda on specified dates.

<!-- page 80 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
80a
Form C
Application for Import and Export Registration / Renewal 
Ayurveda Products, Ingredients, Packing Material, Preservatives, Excipients
For official use only
document No: -
receipt No: -
date of issue: -
Signature of subject Officer: -
First time registration           Import  business Registration for Import/ Export 
Annual registration        Export  Product/ article/ substance/ drug   
1. details of applicant
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 NiC No/passport No/driving license No: -                                                 
1.4 profession: -
1.5 post of applicant within relevent institution/Bussiness: -
1.6 Telephone No: -                               Fixed: -                                    mobile: -     
1.7 Email address: -
2. details of consultant physician
2.1 Full name of physician: -
2.2 ayurveda medical council registration no: -                                     General    Special 
date of registration: - date of renewal: -
2.3 Section of special registration: -
2.4 personal address: -
2.5 Telephone no: -                                Fixed: -                                             mobile: -
2.6 Email address: -
3. import/Export details
(If certified copies are attached, mark “” in the relevant box)
3.1 Nature of the import/Export business                               a sole proprietorship 
                                                                                          a joint venture 
                                                                                          a company                                                                                




<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
81a
3.2 Type of goods expected to be imported                           ayurveda products
                                                                                          raw material
                                                                                          packaging
                                                                                          preservatives
                                                                                          Excipients





3.3 Type of goods expected to be exported                            ayurveda products
                                                                                          raw material
                                                                                          packaging
                                                                                          preservatives
                                                                                          Excipients





3.4 Have you obtained approval from the import and Export Control department for the import/
export of the above goods?
yes/No
3.5 Have you obtained approval from Export development Board approved for exporting the above 
goods?
yes/No
3.6 Have you obtained a Tax Identification No issued by the Inland Revenue Department? yes/No
3.7 Have the above goods been registered with the Sri Lanka Customs for import/export? yes/No
3.8 Has approval been obtained from department of ayurveda for import/export of the above 
goods?
yes/No
3.9 Sample import permit No. issued by department of ayurveda: 
date of issue:
4. details of the company/ business
4.1 Name of Company/Business: -
4.2 address: -
4.3 Telephone No: -
4.4 Email address: -
4.5 Number of Company/Business registration Cer -
tificate: -
date of issue: -
4.6 Department of Ayurveda Registration Certificate 
No: - 
date of issue: -
4.7 date of establishment of Company/Business

<!-- page 82 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
82a
5. details of the goods to be imported
Serial 
No.
category
(raw materials/ 
ayurveda products/ 
packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients etc.)
Types of raw 
materials/ ayurveda 
products / packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients expected 
to be imported
Country 
expected to 
be import
Name and 
address of foreign 
company
Quantity 
of imports 
during last 
year (Kg / 
Unit)
Expected 
Quantity of 
imports next 
year (Kg / 
Unit)
6. details of the goods to be exported
Serial 
No.
category
(raw materials/ 
ayurveda products 
/ packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients etc.)
Types of raw 
materials/ ayurveda 
products / packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients expected 
to be imported
Country 
expected to 
be export
Name and 
address of foreign 
company
Quantity 
of exports 
during last 
year (Kg / 
Unit)
Expected 
Quantity of 
imports next 
year (Kg / 
Unit
7. Certified copies of attachments      
(If certified copies are attached put “” mark in the relevant column)
7.1 photocopy of the document approved by the import and Export Control department for import/
export of the above goods
7.2 photocopy of the document approved by the Export development Board for export of the above 
category/categories
7.3 Photocopy of the document obtaining a Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue 
department
7.4 photocopy of the document registered with Sri lanka Customs for import/export of the above goods
7.5 photo copy of the said document if prior approval has been obtained from the department of 
ayurveda for import/export of the above goods
7.6 detailed quality assurance report of imported goods
7.7 Certificate of origin of the imported product
7.8 photocopy of Foreign Sales agreement 
7.9 Photocopy of Company/Business Registration Certificate of the Foreign Company/ Business
7.10 photocopy of Sample import permit issued by department of ayurveda

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
83a
8. declaration of applicant: -
i hereby certify that all information presented herein is true and correct and i am personally responsible and liable for the 
accuracy of said information.
Signature of applicant: -                                                                                         date: -
Official seal of company
Official use only
money order No.: -
receipt No.: -
document submitted date: -
Note: Complete / incomplete  / Forged document  / Complaints 
Name and signature of person received: -
Note: Completed check-list, document containing all necessary details and product samples, equivalent to market release 
samples as required, should be handed over along with this application by the consulting ayurvedic practitioner to the 
technical division of the Department of ayurveda on specified dates.

<!-- page 84 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
84a
Form D
appliCaTioN For liCENCE To imporT aN ayUrVEda  prodUCT/ ra W ma TErial/ paCKiNG 
maTErial/ prESEr V aTiVE/ ExCipiENT aS SamplES For TEST/ ExamiNa TioN/ aNalySiS/ CliNiCal 
Trial/ diSTriBUTioN aS pHySiCiaN’S SamplES
For official use only
document No: -
receipt No: -
date of issue: -
Signature of subject Officer: -
i/ We …………………………………………..……………………………………………………………………............…. 
of ……………………………………………………………… hereby apply for a licence to import from ……………
………………………………………………………………………….. the ayurveda product/ raw material/ packing 
material/ Preservative/ Excipient specified below as samples for the test/ examination/ analysis/ clinical trial/ distribution as 
physician’s samples.
1. details of applicant
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 NiC No/passport No/driving license No: -                                                 
1.4 profession: -
1.5 post of applicant within relevent institution/Bussiness: -
1.6 Telephone No: -                               Fixed: -                                    mobile: -     
1.7 Email address: -
2. details of consultant physician
2.1 Full name of physician: -
2.2 ayurveda medical council registration no: -                                     General    Special 
date of registration: - date of renewal: -
2.3 Section of special registration: -
2.4 personal address: -
2.5 Telephone no: -                                Fixed: -                                             mobile: -
2.6 Email address: -
3. import details
(If certified copies are attached, mark “” in the relevant box)
3.1 Nature of the import business                   a  sole proprietorship 
                                             a  joint venture 
                                            a  company                                                                                




<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
85a
3.2 Type of goods expected to be imported         a yurveda products
                               raw material
                             packaging
                       preservatives
                        Excipients





3.3 Have you obtained approval from the import and Export Control department for the import/
export of the above goods?
yes/No
3.4 Have the above goods been registered with the Sri Lanka Customs for import/export? yes/No
4. details of the company/ business
4.1 Name of Company/Business: -
4.2 address: -
4.3 Telephone No: -
4.4 Email address: -
4.5 Number of Company/Business registration Cer -
tificate: -
date of issue: -
4.6 Department of Ayurveda Registration Certificate 
No: - 
date of issue: -
4.7 date of establishment of Company/Business
5. details of the goods to be imported
5.1 Name of Company/Business: -
5.2 address: -
5.3 Telephone No: -
5.4 Email address: -
5.5 category
(raw material/ ayurveda product/ packaging/ 
preservative/ excipient etc.)
5.6 Types of raw material/ ayurveda product / pack -
ing material/ preservative/ excipient expected to 
be imported
5.7 Generic name of the material/ product
5.8 Brand name (if any):
5.9 dosage form and Strength
5.10 Quantity:

<!-- page 86 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
86a
6. Certified copies of attachments      
(If certified copies are attached put “” mark in the relevant column)
6.1 photocopy of the document approved by the import and Export Control department for import/
export of the above goods
6.2 photocopy of the document registered with Sri lanka Customs for import/export of the above goods
6.3 photo copy of the said document if prior approval has been obtained from the department of 
ayurveda for import of the above goods
7. declaration of applicant: -
i hereby certify that all information presented herein is true and correct and i am personally responsible and liable for the 
accuracy of said information.
Signature of applicant: -                                                               date: -
Official seal of company
Official use only
money order No.: -
receipt No.: -
document submitted date: -
Note: Complete / incomplete  / Forged document  / Complaints 
Name and signature of person received: -

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
87a
Form E
Application for Registration / Renewal of an Ayurvedic Pharmacy
                                                                        
Official use only
File No/ registration No:
money order/ receipt No: -
date of issue:  -
Signature of Subject Officer: -
First time registration   
Annual registration 
(Put the “”sign in the appropriate box.)
1. applicants’ details 
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 National identity card/ passport / driving license No: -
1.4 profession: -
1.5 post at drug manufactory: - 
1.6 Telephone No                    Fixed: - mobile: -
1.7 Email address: -
2. details of the company/institute
(only if the applicant is registered as drug manufacturer)
2.1 Name of Company/institution: -
2.2 address: -
2.3 Telephone number: -       
2.4 Email address: -
2.5 Business registration certificate number: - 
date of issue: -
2.6 if registered under department of ayurveda
Registration certificate No: -
date of issue: -
2.7
date of establishment of Company/institution: -

<!-- page 88 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
88a
3. details of ayurveda pharmacy
3.1 Name: -
3.2 address: -
3.3 province: -
district: -
divisional Secretariate division: -
Grama Niladhari division: -
3.4 rate No.: -
3.5 Telephone No.: -
3.6 Email address: -
3.7 Business registration certificate number :-
date of issue :-
3.8 if registered in the department of ayurveda, as a ayurveda pharmacy
Registered certification No. :-
date of issue :
3.9 date of establishment of ayurveda pharmacy:-
4. details of pharmacist
4.1 Full name of the pharmacist: -
4.2 ayurveda medical council registered No: -                           
date of registration: - registration renewal date: -
4.3 personal address of pharmacist: -
4.4 Telephone No.: -                                Fixed: -                                             mobile: -
4.5 Email address: -
5. details on marketing division
5.1 Is this building built as per approved regulations? :-                     Yes/No
5.2 Number of staff: -

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
89a
6. details of drugs expected to be sold 
(if there are more than one type of medicine, produce an annexure)
Serial 
No.
Category Types of drugs expected 
to be sold
Trade name registered under 
department of 
Ayurveda?
Quantity 
of products 
in previous 
year 
(Kg / unit)
Expected 
quantity next 
year 
(Kg / unit
7. Certified copies of attachments     
(If certified copies are attached, mark  in the box in front of the relevant column)
7.1 certified photocopy of pharmacist’s Registration Certificate
7.2 certified photocopy of Business Registration Certificate (if available only)
7.3 route map showing the nearest route from the nearest city to the pharmacy (Google map)
7.4 Inspection and Money order receipts for first/annual registration license
8. Certificate of pharmacist:
as the pharmacist of the above-mentioned institution/pharmacy, i, …………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………… (Name) holder of National identity card No 
……………………………………… of ………………………………………………………………… 
………………………………………(address)  i hereby act in accordance with the criteria of the ayurvedic medical Council 
under the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 and sell under my supervision. That the products received are legally responsible 
for dispensing standardized medicines to the customer in prescribed dosages in accordance with medical prescriptions and 
provide full-time service, and the accuracy of all the information presented under No. 4 herein. i hereby certify that i am 
personally responsible and liable for
Signature:      date:
Official seal:
9. Certificate of the applicant
i hereby certify that the above information is true and correct
Signature:      date:
Official seal:

<!-- page 90 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
90a
10. Certificate of Grama Seva Niladhari
 (Must be certified by the Gram Seva Niladhari of the relevant Grama Seva division to which the premises intended to run 
the pharmacy)
I confirm that the address ................................................ ................................................ ................................................ (must 
be the address mentioned under No. 3 in the application form) is correct, and that the address is located in..........................
...... ........ ....................................... divisional Secretariat division, Bearing Grama Seva division No........... ......................
........................
Signature of Grama Niladhari:                                                                         date:
Officer's Name:
Official seal
Sub Signature of divisional Secretary:                                                           date:
Official seal
Official use only
money order No.: -
receipt No.: -
document submitted date: -
Note:         Complete   / incomplete    / Forged document    / Complaints   
Name and signature of person received: -                                                                    date: -

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
91a
Form F
Application for Approval to Register/ Renewal Storage facilities for Ayurveda Products/ 
Raw materials/ Packaging materials
Official use only
File No/ registration No: -
money order/ receipt No: -
date of issue:  -
Signature of subject officer: -
First time registration           
Annual registration      
(put the “ ”sign in the appropriate box.)
1. Applicant’s details
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 National identity card/ passport / driving license No: -
1.4 profession: -
1.5 applicants position at medicinal store: -
1.6 Telephone No :-                       Fixed: - mobile: -
1.7 Email address: -
2. Details of Company/Institution
2.1 Name of Company/institution: -
2.2 address: -
2.3 Telephone number: -       
2.4 Email address: -
2.5 Business registration certificate number: - 
date of issue: -
2.6 if registered under department of ayurveda
Registration certificate No: -
date of issue: -
2.7 date of establishment of Company/institution: -

<!-- page 92 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
92a
3. details of medicinal store
3.1 Name of store: -
3.2 address: -
3.3 province: -
district: -
divisional Secretariate: -
Grama Niladhari division: -
3.4 rate No: -
3.5 Telephone No: -      
3.6 Email address: -
3.7 if registered under department of ayurveda
Registration certificate No: -
date of issue: -
3.8 date of establishment of medicinal store: -
3.9 Is this building built as per approved regulations? :-                              Yes/No
3.10 Number of staff: -
4. details of pharmacist
4.1 Full name of pharmacist: -
4.2 ayurveda medical council registration No: -                                     
date of registration: - date of renewal: -
4.3 personal address: -
4.4 Telephone No: -                               Fixed: -                                          mobile: -
4.5 Email address: -
5. details of store keeper/keepers
(if more than one person, attach the following details of all individuals) 
5.1 Full name of Store keeper: -
5.2 personal address: -
5.3 National identity Card/ passport / driving license No: -
5.4 Telephone No: -                                 Fixed: -                                           mobile: -
5.5 Email address: -
6. details regarding storage
Serial
No.
category (raw materials/ 
medicines/ packaging 
materials/ preservatives/ 
Excipients etc.)
Types of raw materials/ 
medicines/packaging 
materials/ preservatives/ 
excipients stored
Quantity stored last 
year (Kg / Unit)
Expected quantity to 
store next year (Kg / 
Unit)

<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
93a
7. details regarding Exportation
Serial 
No.
category (raw 
materials/ 
medicines/ 
packaging materials/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients etc.)
Types of raw 
materials/ 
medicines/ 
packaging materials/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients to be 
exported
Country 
expected for 
exportation
Name and 
address of 
the foreign 
company
Exported 
Quantity last 
year (Kg/
units)
Expected Export 
Quantity next 
year
(Kg/units)
8. details regarding importation
Serial 
No.
Category
(raw materials/ 
medicines/ 
packaging materials/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients etc)
raw materials/ 
medicines/ 
packaging materials/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients expecting 
for importation
Country 
expected for 
importation
Name and 
address of 
the foreign 
company
imported 
Quantity last 
year (Kg/
units)
Expected import 
Quantity next 
year
(Kg/units)
9. Certified copies of attachments      
(If certified copies are attached, mark “”in relevant column)
9.1 certified photocopy of pharmacist’s Registration Certificate
9.2 Building plan of the medicinal store(copy of the plan certified by the local council / city council / 
municipal council)
9.3 certified photocopy of Business Registration Certificate (if available only)
9.4
route map showing the nearest route from the nearest city to the medicinal store
(Google maps)
9.5 Inspection and Money order receipts for first/annual registration license
10. Certificate of pharmacist
as  the pharmacist of the above-mentioned institution/medicinal store, i, …………………………………
………………………………………………………………………(Name) holder of National identity card 
No………………………………………of ………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………(address)  i hereby act in accordance with the criteria of the ayurvedic medical Council under 
the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 and sell under my supervision. That the products received are legally responsible for 
dispensing standardized medicines to the customer in prescribed dosages in accordance with medical prescriptions and 
provide full-time service, and the accuracy of all the information presented under No. 4 herein. i hereby certify that i am 
personally responsible and liable for
Signature: -      date: -
Official seal: -

<!-- page 94 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
94a
11. Certificate of applicant
i hereby certify, that the storage facilities are maintained in accordance with all the arrangements recommended by the 
department of ayurveda, that unusable medicines/raw materials/packaging materials are not issued, that they are stored in 
a separate premises, that all the above storage materials are legally required to be issued to the customer/production, and i 
am responsible for the accuracy of the above information. i hereby certify that i am personally responsible and liable for.
Signature: -      date: -
Official seal: -
12. Certificate of Grama Niladhari
 (Must be certified by the Gram Seva Niladhari of the relevant Grama Seva division to which the premises intended to run 
the pharmacy)
I confirm that the address ................................................ ................................................ ................................................ (must 
be the address mentioned under No. 3 in the application form) is correct, and that the address is located in..........................
...... ........ ....................................... divisional Secretariat division, Bearing Grama Seva division No........... ......................
........................
Signature of Grama Niladhari:                                                            date:
Officer's Name:
Official seal
Sub Signature of divisional Secretary:        date:
Official seal
Official use only
money order No: -
receipt No: -
documents submitted date: -
Note:         Complete   / incomplete    / Forged document    / Complaints   
Name and signature of person received: -                                                                    date: -

<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
95a
Form G
Application for Registration/ Renewal for Transport/ Distribution 
of Ayurveda Medicines, Ayurveda Products, Raw materials, Packing materials
Official use only
File No/ registration No: -
money order/ receipt No: -
date of issue:  -
Signature of Subject Officer: -
First time registration           
Annual registration      
(Put the “”sign in the appropriate box.)
1. details of the applicant
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 National identity Card/ passport / driving license No: -
1.4 profession: -
1.5 post at drug manufactory/Cultivated land: -
1.6 Telephone No                    Fixed:- mobile:-
1.7 Email address: -
2. Details of the company/ Institution
2.1 Name of company/institution: -
2.2 address: -
2.3 Telephone number: -       
2.4 Email address: -
2.5 Business registration certificate number: - 
date of issue: -
2.6 if registered in the department of ayurveda
Registration certificate No: -
date of issue: -
2.7 date of incorporation of company/institution: -

<!-- page 96 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
96a
3. details on vehicles expected to be used for transportation purposes
3.1 Number of vehicles expected to be used: -
3.2 address where the vehicle is located: -
3.3 province: -
district: -
divisional Secretariate: -
Grama Niladhari division: -
of vehicle location
3.4 Type of vehicle Vehicle number Colour
4. driver’s details
Name of driver driving license No. driver’s personal address
5. details on ayurveda medicines / raw materials / packaging materials to be transported
Serial 
No.
Category
(ayurvedic 
medicines / 
raw materials 
/ packaging 
materials)
Type of ayurvedic medicines 
/ raw materials / packaging 
materials intended to be 
transported
Trade 
name
Quantity transported 
during the last year 
(Kg / Unit)
annual quantity 
expected to be 
transported (Kg/
Unit)
6. Certified copies of attachments     
(If certified copies are attached, mark “” in the box of the relevant column)
6.1 Certified Photocopies of revenue license certificates of vehicles
6.2 Certified Photocopies of driving license of drivers to be employed
6.3 Certified photocopy of business registration certificate
6.4
Certified Copy of Registration Certificate under Department of Ayurveda
(Certificates of registration of drug manufactories/stores/cultivation lands applicable for transporta-
tion)
6.5 route map showing the expected routes to carry out transport activities (Google maps)
6.6 Inspection and Money order receipts for first / annual registration license

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
97a
7. declaration of applicant 
i hereby certify that the transportation of ayurveda medicines/raw materials/packaging materials are carried out with the 
prior approval under the department of ayurveda, and that i am personally responsible and liable for the accuracy of all the 
above details.
Signature:      date:
Official seal:
           
 Official use only
money order No.: -
receipt No.: -
document submitted date: -
Note:         Complete   / incomplete    / Forged document    / Complaints   
Name and signature of person received: -                                                                    Date: -

<!-- page 98 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
98a
Form H
Application for Registration of Raw Materials that restricted by the rules and regulation 
imposed in Sri Lanka, for the Ayurveda Production
Official use only
File No./ registration No: -
money order/ receipt No.: -
date of issue:  -
Signature of subject officer: -
First time registration        Name of the raw material 
Annual registration          that restricted by 
(put the  “ ”sign in the appropriate box.)    the rules and regulation       :- …………
1.details of applicant
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 NiC No./passport No./driving license No.: -                                                 
1.4 profession: -
1.5 post of applicant at drug manufactory: -
1.6 Telephone No.: -                                         Fixed: -                                       mobile: -
1.7 Email address: -
2. details of the company/ institution
2.1 Name of institution/Company: -
2.2 address: -
2.3 Telephone No.: -
2.4 Email: -
2.5 Number and date of company registration: -
date of issue: -

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
99a
2.6 if registered under department of ayurveda,
Registration certificate Number: -
date of issue: -
2.7 date of establishment of the institution/Company: -
3. details of drug manufactory
3.1 Name of drug manufactory: -
3.2 address of drug manufactory: -
3.3 province: -                                      
district: -                                     
divisional secretariate division: -
Grama Niladhari division and No: -
3.4 rate No.: -
3.5 Telephone No.: -      
3.6 Email address: -
3.7 if registered under department of ayurveda,
Registration Certificate Number: -
date of issue: -
3.8 date of establishment of the drug manufactory: -
4. details of consultant physician
4.1 Full name of physician: -
4.2 ayurveda medical council registration No.: -                           General/special
date of registration: -                                                                       date of renewal: -
4.3 registration section: -
Number of Special registration (if available): -
4.4 address: -
4.5 Telephone No: -                                       Fixed: -                                       mobile: -
4.6 Email address: -
5. details of product
5.1 Name of the product according to ayurveda/ Siddha/Unani/Traditional medicines pharmacopeia: -
5.2 Trade name of the product: -

<!-- page 100 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
100a
5.3 Nature of product: -
medicine diet and nutritional 
supplementary 
products
Cosmetic products      devices
5.4 Therapeutic indications/uses of product: -
5.5 if you have obtained registration for this product under department of ayurveda: 
registration number first-time: -                                                         Date: -
registration number last -time: -                                                         date: -
5.6 Has any research been done on this product in Sri Lanka after first registration? (yes/no)
If yes, briefly describe the results (attach a copy of the report/publication)
5.7 if the product is medicine, mention the Name of text/page/recipe No: - 
please mention whether this medicine obtained from Classical texts/ pharmacopeia/Traditional base
5.8 is it a new product,
mention the recipe (to be prepared separate document): -
Certificate of legal provision in the relevant country: -
5.9 dose and dosage: -
5.10 route of administration: - 
External 
application
orally inhalation Vasthi Nasya others
5.11 required amount of the above raw material per unit :-
6. if the product is exported, give details
Serial 
No.
category
(raw materials/ 
medicines/ 
packaging material/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients etc.)
Types of raw 
materials/ 
medicines/ 
packaging material/ 
preservatives/ 
Excipients) to be 
exported
Countries 
expected to 
export
Name and address 
of the foreign 
company
Export 
Quantity  
(Kg / Unit) 
last year
Expected 
export 
quantity for 
next year  
(Kg / units)
7. details of imported material used in the preparation of production (if available)
7.1 Whether imported materials are used in the preparation of medicine? yes/No
7.2 if yes, Name of institution issued license for importation of materials

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
101a
7.3
license No.: -
date: -
7.4 Country of import
7.5 Name of the raw material manufacturer in relevant country
7.6 address 
7.7 list of imported raw materials (relevant documents to be submitted)
7.8 Has any processed products been imported to be used as a raw material in the 
product?
yes/No
7.9 if yes, name / names of processed products imported as raw materials
7.10 Has separate approval obtained from department of ayurveda to import such 
product?
yes/No
7.11
if yes, the referral letter number
date: -
8.  details of raw materials that restricted by the rules and regulations imposed in Sri lanka :
Serial
No.
Type of 
ingredients 
restricted by 
law
district and 
divisional 
Secretariat where 
the relevant raw 
materials are 
procured
address of 
the place of 
procurement 
of the relevant 
raw materials
license 
number 
and date of 
approval for 
the use of 
the relevant 
ingredients
Quantity of raw 
materials used in 
above product last 
year (Kg / Unit)
Quantity 
expected to be 
procured in 
next year (Kg 
/ Unit)
9. Certificate of consultant Physician 
i, …………………………………………………………………………………………………………(Name) holder 
of National identity Card No………………………………………of ……………………………………………………
……………………………………………………(address) the consultant ayurvedic medical practitioner of the above 
named institution/ayurvedic drug manufacturing company hereby certify that i abide by the registered ayurvedic medical 
practitioners  rules No. 1 of 2014 made under the ayurvedic act No .31 of 1961 and that i am legally responsible for 
standard of the products and in connection therewith manufactured under my supervision and that i will provide my services 
full time and that i will be held responsible and will be responsible  personally for the correctness of all information 
disclosed under No. 4 hereto
Signature of ayurveda practitioner: -                                                               date: -
Official seal

<!-- page 102 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
102a
10. declaration of applicant: -
i hereby certify that the information given in the application is true and correct. i am personally responsible and liable for 
the accuracy of all information furnished herein.
Signature of applicant: -                                                                                    date: -
Official seal
Official use only
money order No.: -
receipt No.: -
document submitted date: -
Note :Complete   /incomplete   / Forged document   / Complaints 
Name and signature of person received: -

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
103a
Form I
Application for Cultivation, manufacture of Ayurveda products, storage, distribution, sale, transportation and 
exportation of Medicinal cannabis
For Official use only
File No./ registration No.: -
money order/ receipt No.: -
date of issue:  -
Signature of subject officer: -
Nature of business     
local organization      Foreign organization         
a joint venture            a sole proprietary                  
Obtaining a temporary license   Obtaining a permanent license 
Cultivate               Cultivate            
manufacture      manufacture   
Export      Export   
put the “ ”sign in the appropriate box.)
1. Details of the applicant
1.1 Name of applicant: -
1.2 address: -
1.3 National identity card/ passport / driving license No: -
1.4 profession: -
1.5 Telephone No.: -                               Fixed   
                                                         mobile
1.6 Email address: -
2. Details of the manufacturing company/business
2.1 Name of company /business
2.2 address: -

<!-- page 104 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
104a
2.3 Telephone No.: -                                                      
2.4 Email address: -
2.5 company/business registration certificate No.: - 
date of issue: -
2.6 if registered under department of ayurveda
Registration certificate No.: -
date of issue: -
2.7 date of establishment of company/Business: -
2.8 applicant’s position in the company/Business: -
3. Details of board of Directors/Partners/Members 
(details of all members/partners should be submitted)
Serial 
No.
designation in 
company
Full name of officer/board 
member
National identity 
Card Number
Specimen Signature
annexures relating to Nos. 1, 2, 3      
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 certified photocopy of Business/Company Registration Certificate
02
certified photocopy of Registration certificate 
(if registered under department of ayurveda)
03 photocopies of National identity Card/passport of applicant/Board of directors/ members/
partners (mention number of attachments)
04 Bank statements of Near 3 months of local/foreign bank accounts to verify financial 
capability
05 Certificate of bank balance of approximately near 3 months in local/foreign bank accounts
06 document authorized to sign on behalf of the company
07 Affidavit confirming authorization to sign on behalf of the company
08 if the relevant entity is a company, the report containing the authorized board of directors’ 
decision to submit the Eoi (Board resolution)
09 In case of Sole Proprietorship/Partnership, Affidavit confirming the nature of the business 
and personal details.
10 Cash receipt of Non-refundable deposit Fee Credited to bank account of department of 
ayurveda

<!-- page 105 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
105a
4. Details of Consultant Physician
4.1 Full name of consultant physician: -
4.2 if registered under department of ayurveda
Registration certificate No.: -
date of issue: -
date of renewal: -  
Special      General 
4.3 Section of special registration: -
4.4 personal address: -
4.5 Telephone No.: -                                Fixed                                             
                                                            mobile
4.6 Email address: -
5. Details of pharmacist
5.1 Full name of pharmacist: -
5.2 ayurveda medical Council registration no: -
date of issue: -
date of renewal: -  
5.3 personal address: -
5.4 Telephone No.: -                                 Fixed                                             
                                                            mobile
5.5 Email address: -
annexures relating to Nos. 4,5     
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 Certified copy of consultant physician’s Ayurveda Medical council registration certificate
02 Certified copy of pharmacist’s Ayurveda Medical council registration certificate
6. details on cultivation
(in case of more than one land, annexures should be submitted for each cultivation land in this format)
6.1 Name of the company/business/individual who acquired the 
ownership of the cultivation land
6.2 address: -
6.3 Telephone No.: -        
6.4 Email address: -

<!-- page 106 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
106a
6.5 area under primary cultivation    acres
area under secondary cultivation              acres  
Total area of cultivation    acres
Used for cultivation
6.6 How the land is surrounded a border wall           
mesh covers/Cover fencing    
6.7 province: -
district: -
divisional secretariate: -
Grama Niladhari division and No.: -
of cultivation land
6.8 Nature of ownership of the applicant party in respect of the 
cultivated land
6.9 rate No.: -
6.10 date of commencement of cultivation land
6.11 Name of agriculture instructor supervising primary 
cultivation
Professional qualification (Mention the degree/s)
personnel address
National identity card/ passport / driving license No: - 
Telephone No.: -                    Fixed: -                                          
                                              mobile: -
Email address: -
6.12 Name of agriculture instructor supervising secondary 
cultivation
Professional qualification (Mention the degree/s)
personnel address
National identity card/ passport / driving license No: - 
Telephone No.: -                   Fixed: -                                          
                                                    mobile: -
Email address: -

<!-- page 107 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
107a
6.13 license number obtained from the Central Environment 
authority for maintaining a cultivation land: -
date of issue: -
6.14 if registered under department of ayurveda,
Registration certificate no: -
date of issue: -
6.15 are the proper protective measures recommended by 
Department of Ayurveda being followed?
yes      
 No  
annexures relating to No. 4      
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 Copies of documents proving the ownership of the cultivated land
02
photocopies of National identity Card/passport of cultivation supervising agriculture
instructors
(mention number of attachments)
03 Copy of certificate proving qualifications of primary cultivation supervising agriculture 
instructor
04 Copy of certificate proving qualifications of secondary cultivation supervising agriculture 
instructor
05 detailed report on the safety measures used for the cultivated land
The following annexures must be submitted before granting the permanent license
06 photocopy of license obtained from Central Environment authority
07 Photocopy of Medicinal Cultivation Registration Certificate of Department of Ayurveda
08 Police Report of the Police Officer in Charge of the Police area to which the Cultivated 
land belongs
09 observation report with the counter sign of the divisional secretariate and signature of 
Grama niladhari which the Cultivated land belongs.
7. details of drug manufactory
7.1 Name of drug manufactory: -
7.2 address: -
7.3 Telephone No: -      
7.4 Email address: -

<!-- page 108 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
108a
7.5 province: -
district: -
divisional secretariate: -
Grama Niladhari division and No.: -
of drug manufactory
7.6 applicants’ nature of right regarding the drug manufactory 
and manufacturing land
7.7 area of land owned by the drug manufactory
7.8 How the land is surrounded a border wall  
Fence with mesh cover    
7.9 rate No.: -
7.10 if registered under department of ayurveda, 
Registration certificate No: -
date of issue: -
7.11 date of establishment of drug manufactory: -
7.12 Full name of consultant physician: -
personal address: -
National identity card/ passport No: -
ayurveda medical council registration No. and date: -
Section of special registration: -
last renewal date: -
Telephone No.: -                   Fixed
                                             mobile
Email address: -                                       
     General                    Special  
7.13 Name of supervising technical officer
personal address: -
National identity card/ passport No: -
Telephone No.: -                   Fixed
                                             mobile
Email address: -                                       

<!-- page 109 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
109a
7.14 license No obtained from Central Environment authority
date of issue: -
7.15 is this drug manufactory built as per recommended safety 
regulations approved by Department of Ayurveda?
yes         
 No     
appendix relating to No. 7      
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 Certified copy of Ayurveda Product Registration Certificate under Department of Ayurveda
02 Certified copies of documents proving ownership of drug manufactory 
03 Copy of Ayurveda medical council registration certificate of the physician supervising the 
drug manufactory.
04 Copy of certificate proving qualification of technical officer supervising the drug 
manufactory.
05
Photocopies of National Identity Card/Passport of technical officer supervising the drug 
manufactory.
(mention number of attachments)
06 detailed report on the safety measures used for the drug manufactory.
The following annexures must be submitted before granting the permanent license
07 Certified copy of license obtained from Central Environment Authority
08 Police Report of the Police Officer in Charge of the Police area to which the drug manu-
factory belongs.
09 observation report with the counter sign of the divisional secretariate and signature of 
Grama niladhari which the drug manufactory belongs.
8. details of product
(products here indicates “a yurvedic medicines and other cannabis related products”, in case of more than one product, 
annexures should be submitted for each product in this format)
8.1 Category of product medicine                                           
diet and nutritional                                            
supplementary  
Cosmetic products            
devices              
other ..........................................
8.2 Trade name of the product
8.3 Text book name of the product

<!-- page 110 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
110a
8.4 Name of text, page, recipe No.
(please mention whether this product is 
obtained from Classical texts/ pharmacopeia/
Traditional base)
8.5 Therapeutic indications/uses of product For Therapeutic purpose   
For rejuvenation purpose  
For Cosmeceutical purpose    
other ..........................................
8.6 dose and dosage
8.7 route of administration orally         
External application  
inhalation      
Vasti       
Nasya   
other ..........................................
8.8 if you have obtained registration for this prod -
uct under department of ayurveda before: 
Registration number first-time: -                      
date: -
registration number last -time: -                      
date: -                                   
8.9
Has any research been done on this product in Sri 
Lanka after first registration? 
yes      
No  
8.10 If yes, briefly describe the results
9. Summary report on products
Serial 
No. Category
Text book 
name of the 
product
Trade 
name
mode of approval
Quantity 
of products 
in previous 
year (Kg / 
unit)
Expected 
quantity per 
next year 
(Kg / unit)
pharmacopeia
if approved from 
TCam, medicine 
name, number and 
date
ayurveda
Siddha
Unani

<!-- page 111 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
111 a
10. Summary report on above product/products containing cannabis species, all subspecies and other ingredients 
restricted by the rules and regulations imposed in Sri lanka. 
Serial 
No
Chemical/
Scientific 
Name of 
ingredient 
restricted 
by law
district and 
divisional 
Secretariat where 
the relevant raw 
materials are 
procured
address of 
the place of 
procurement 
of the 
relevant raw 
materials
license 
number 
and date of 
approval for 
the use of 
the relevant 
ingredients
Quantity of raw 
materials used 
in above product 
last year (Kg / 
Unit)
Quantity 
expected to be 
procured in 
next year (Kg 
/ Unit)
annexures relating to Nos. 08,09,10       
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column))
01 if it is a new product, mentioned the recipe
02 If it is a new product, certificate of approval obtained by TCAM
03 If registered under Department of ayurveda, copy of the valid certificate
04 Has any research been done on this product in Sri Lanka after first registration, attach a 
copy of the report/publication
11. details of imported raw materials/packaging/preservatives/excipients used in the manufacturing process of related 
product 
(in case of more than one raw material/packaging/preservatives/excipient, annexures should be submitted for each production 
in this format. if applicable only)
11.1 Have any imported raw materials/packaging/preservatives/ex -
cipients been used for the respective product?
yes     
 No 
11.2 Scientific/Textbook name of the any processed product if it is 
imported to be used as an ingredient in respective product.
11.3 Nature of raw material
11.4 Scientific/Chemical name of raw material
11.5 raw material                       Common                
rare                 
Endemic                                                       
Threatened with extinction   
 
11.6 Are there regulations or ordinances related to the ingredient?

<!-- page 112 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
112a
11.7 mode of import/export of raw materials raw    
dry    
Extract                 
other............................................. 
11.8 Scientific/Chemical Name of Packaging material/preservative/
excipient
11.9 Trade Name of packaging material/
preservative/excipient
11.10 The expected quantity to be imported in a year (Kg/unit)
12. Summary report related to import goods
Serial 
No.
category
(raw materials/ 
ayurveda products/ 
packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients etc.)
Types of raw 
materials/ 
ayurveda products 
/ packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients expected 
to be imported
Country 
expected to 
be import
Name and 
address of 
foreign company
Quantity 
of imports 
during last 
year (Kg / 
Unit)
Expected 
Quantity of 
imports next 
year (Kg / 
Unit)
annexures relating to Nos. 11,12      
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 Registration certificate issued by Department of Ayurveda for importation of each category
02 Copy of letter approved by ayurveda drugs and products regulatory Council in regarding 
the product to be imported.
03 Certified Copy of Sample Import Permit issued by Department of Ayurveda
Following documents should be submitted at each Shipment in order to obtain the import license 
issued by the department of ayurveda for each shipment.
04 detailed quality assurance report of imported goods
05 Certificate of origin of the imported product
06 approval obtained from Sri lanka import and Export Control department
07 pro-forma invoice issued by the seller
13. details of Storage
(in case of more than one storage, annexures should be submitted for each storage in this format)
13.1 Name of storage: -
13.2 address: - 

<!-- page 113 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
113a
13.3 Telephone No.: -      
13.4 Email address: -
13.5 province: -
district: -
divisional secretariate: -
Grama Niladhari division: -
of storage
13.6 rate No.: -
13.7 date of establishment of storage: -
13.8 Nature of ownership of the applicant party regarding the 
building and land where the storage is established
13.9 area used for storage 
(indicate the square ft amount separately)
raw material .................. Sq. ft
products  .................. Sq. ft
packaging .................. Sq. ft
preservatives .................. Sq. ft
Excipients            .................. Sq. ft
13.10 if registered under department of ayurveda
Registration certificate No.: -
date of issue: -
13.11 is this storage built as per recommended rules and regula -
tions approved by Department of Ayurveda?
yes    
No  
13.12 Whether the storage is maintained in accordance with the 
regulations approved by Department of Ayurveda?
yes    
No  
13.13 are quarantine measures followed to secure stored materi -
als within the storage premises?
yes    
No  
14. details of Store Keeper/Keepers 
(in case of more than one store keeper, annexures should be submitted for each individual in this format) 
14.1 Full name of store keeper
14.2 personal address
14.3 National identity card/ passport No/driving license No: -
14.4 Telephone No.: -                   Fixed
                                             mobile
14.5 Email address: -                                       

<!-- page 114 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
114a
15. details regarding Storage
Serial
No.
category (raw materials/ 
medicines/ packaging 
materials/ preservatives/ 
Excipients etc.)
Types of raw materials/ 
medicines/packaging 
materials/ preservatives/ 
excipients stored
Quantity stored 
during last year (Kg 
/ Unit)
Expected quantity 
expected to store 
for next year (Kg / 
Unit)
annexures relating to Nos. 13,14,15      
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 Registration certificate obtained from Department of Ayurveda for the storage of each 
category
02 Confirmation document of ownership of the applicant party regarding the building and 
land where the storage is established
03
license issued by the department of ayurveda for the storage of cannabis species, all 
subspecies and other ingredients or ayurvedic products containing such ingredients 
restricted by law in Sri lanka
04 photocopy of license obtained from Central Environment authority
05 Police Report of the Police Officer in Charge of the Police area to which the storage 
belongs
06 observation report with the counter sign of the divisional secretariate and signature of 
Grama niladhari which the storage belongs
07 photocopies of store keeper/s National identity Card/passport (mention number of 
attachments)
16. details on vehicles expected to be used for transportation purposes
16.1 Number of vehicles expected to be used: -
16.2 (if multiple locations, give separate details of each 
location)
province: -
district: -
divisional secretariate: -
Grama Niladhari division: -
of vehicle location
16.4 Type of vehicle Vehicle number Color Engine capacity

<!-- page 115 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
115a
17. driver’s details
Name of driver driving license No. driver’s personal address
18. details on ayurveda medicines / raw materials / packaging materials to be transported
Serial 
No.
Category
(ayurvedic 
medicines / 
raw materials 
/ packaging 
materials)
Type of a yurvedic 
medicines / raw materials 
/ packaging materials 
intended to be transported
Trade 
name
Quantity 
transported during 
the last year (Kg / 
Unit)
annual quantity 
expected to be 
transported (Kg/
Unit)
annexures relating to Nos. 16,17,18      
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 Registration certificate obtained from Department of Ayurveda for the transportation of 
each category
02
license issued by the department of ayurveda for the storage of cannabis species, all sub -
species and other ingredients or ayurvedic products containing such ingredients restricted 
by law in Sri lanka (permit should be obtained in each case of transport)
03 route map showing the expected routes to carry out transport activities 
04
Certified Photocopies of revenue license certificates of vehicles to be used for 
transportation of products/ medicines / raw materials / packaging materials / 
preservatives/ Excipients
05
photocopies of driving license of drivers 
(mention number of attachments)
19. details related to exportation
(in case of more than one type, annexures should be submitted for each type of goods in this format)
19.1 Type of goods expected to be imported products      
raw material    
19.2 Nature of the product to be imported medicine                                       
diet and nutritional                                         
supplementary  
Cosmetic products            
devices           
other ..........................................

<!-- page 116 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
116a
19.3 Trade name of the product to be exported
19.4 Textbook name of the product be exported
19.5 mode of export raw     
dry     
Extract                  
other.............................................
20. Summary report of the goods to be exported
Serial 
No.
category
(raw materials/ 
ayurveda 
products / 
packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients etc.)
Types of raw 
materials/ 
ayurveda 
products / 
packaging/ 
preservatives/ 
excipients 
expected to be 
exported
Country 
expected to 
be export
Name and 
address 
of foreign 
company
Quantity 
of exports 
during last 
year (Kg / 
Unit)
Expected 
Quantity of 
imports next 
year (Kg / 
Unit
annexures relating to Nos. 19,20      
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 photocopy of the document approved by the import and Export Control department for 
export of the above good/s
02 photocopy of the document approved by the Export development Board for export of the 
above good/s
03 Photocopy of the document obtaining a Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland 
revenue department
04 photocopy of the document registered with Sri lanka Customs for export of the above 
goods
05 photo copy of the said document if prior approval has been obtained from the department 
of ayurveda for export of the above goods
21. details about the project proposal to be submitted for feasibility study
21.1 Name of project proposal
21.2 details in brief
annexure relating to Nos. 21     
(if copies are attached, mark  in relevant column)
01 project proposal
02 detail report on the human resources expected to be used in the project
03 Affidavit to act in accordance with labor, women and child protection laws

<!-- page 117 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
117a
Schedule III
Price Schedule
No. Service Unit Value
1
Registration of Local Products / Medicines - Normal Process
registration/licence fee lKr       
15,000.00 
renewal fee - annually* lKr         
5,000.00 
appeal  fee lKr         
7,500.00 
 
2
Registration of Local Products / Medicines – Expedited Process
registration/licence fee lKr
      
30,000.00 
appeal  fee lKr       
10,000.00 
 
3
Registration of Imported Products / Medicines/ Local business - Normal Process
registration/licence fee USd                500 
renewal fee - annually* USd                150 
appeal  fee USd                200 
  
4
Registration of Imported Products / Medicines/ Local business – Expedited Process
Sample licence fee USd                200 
any change of sample licence USd                100 
registration/licence fee USd             1,000 
appeal  fee USd                300 
  
5
Registration of Export Products / Medicines/ Local business - Normal Process
registration  fee USd
                 10 
renewal fee - annually (each product)* USd                  10 
 
6
Registration of Export products/medicines / Local business –  Expedited Process
registration  fee USd
                 20 
renewal fee - annually (each product)* USd                  20 
 

<!-- page 118 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
118a
No. Service Unit Value
7
Registration of Manufacturing premises - (Normal Process)
registration/licence fee lKr       
50,000.00 
annual registration* lKr       
25,000.00 
Duplicate certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
drug Stores lKr       
15,000.00 
drug Stores - renewal annually* lKr       
10,000.00 
    
8
Registration of Manufacturing premises - ( Expedited Process)
registration/licence fee lKr
    
100,000.00 
annual registration* lKr       
50,000.00 
Duplicate certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
drug Stores lKr       
30,000.00 
drug Stores - renewal annually* lKr       
20,000.00 
  
9
Approval for media advertisement  - Normal Process
paper advertisement lKr
      
40,000.00 
mass media / Social media lKr       
40,000.00 
 
10
Approval for media advertisement  -  Expedited Process
paper advertisement lKr
      
80,000.00 
mass media / Social media lKr       
80,000.00 
  
11
Transport Certificate - Normal Process
registration fee lKr
      
15,000.00 
Duplicate Certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
annual renewal fee* lKr       
10,000.00 
 

<!-- page 119 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
119a
No. Service Unit Value
12
Transport Certificate -   Expedited Process
registration fee lKr       
30,000.00 
Duplicate Certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
annual renewal fee* lKr       
20,000.00 
  
13
Drug stores (Store with manufacturing unit excluded) - Normal Process
registration/licence fee lKr
      
25,000.00 
Duplicate certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
annual renewal fee* lKr       
15,000.00 
 
14
Drug stores (Store with manufacturing unit excluded) -   Expedited Process
registration/licence fee lKr
      
50,000.00 
Duplicate certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
annual renewal fee* lKr       
30,000.00 
 
15
Pharmacy - Normal Process
registration/licence fee - retail lKr
      
20,000.00 
Duplicate certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
annual renewal fee* lKr       
10,000.00 
    
16
Pharmacy - Expedited Process
registration/licence fee - retail lKr
      
40,000.00 
Duplicate certificate fee lKr         
5,000.00 
annual renewal fee* lKr       
20,000.00 
 

<!-- page 120 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
120a
No. Service Unit Value
17
Projects related to Cannabis
refundable deposit USd          
100,000 
project evaluation fee USd             1,250 
Temporary licence fee USd                300 
permanent licence fee USd                200 
renewal fee - annually - each item* USd                200 
appeal  fee USd                250 
Duplicate certificate fee USd                  10 
  
18
Importing raw materials/capsules/packing materials/substance/other product related to Ayurveda 
value addition
licence fee - each product lKr       
10,000.00 
Fee for No objection letter - each product lKr         
5,000.00 
renewal fee annually - each product.* lKr         
2,000.00 
   
* 10% penalty fee will be charged for each application delayed every month.

<!-- page 121 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
121a
Schedule IV
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdokd.drhla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN oF aN ayUrVEdiC maNUF aCTUriNG CENTEr
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g ksl=;a lrkq ,nk 
ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo T!IO ksIamdok.drhla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ  kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;. 
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an ayurveda drug manufacturing center.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l 
ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.  
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of ….. year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
T!IO ksIamdokd.drfha ku
kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; ngau;
Name of the drug manufacturing Center
ksIamdokd.drfha ,smskh
kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; Kfthp
address of the drug manufacturing Center
T!IO ksIamdokd.dr whs;slref.a ku
kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiya cupikahsupd; ngau;
Name of the proprietor of the drug manufacturing Center
ms<sfh, lrkq ,nk T!IO j¾.
jahupf;fg;gLk; kUe;Jfspd; tiffs;;;;;;;
Types of drugs being prepared
T!IO ksIamdokd.drh msysg jQ Èkh
kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyak; epWtg;gl;l jpfjp
date of the Establishment of drug manufacturing Center
WmfoaYl ffjoHjrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
MNyhrid itj;jpahpd; ngau; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Name of the Consultant physician and registration No.
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 122 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
122a
wdhq¾fõo kj ksIamdokhla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj Gjpa cw;gj;jpiag; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN oF a NEW ayUrVEda  prodUCT
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk wdhq¾fõo kj ksIamdokhla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj  Gjpa  cw;gj;jpiag;iag; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an ayurveda new product.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla 
i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .............. tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
T!IO ksIamdokd.drfha ku
kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; ngau;
Name of the drug manufacturing Center
ksIamdok.drfha ,smskh
kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiyaj;jpd; Kfthp
address of the drug manufacturing Center
T!IO ksIamdokd.dr whs;slref.a ku
kUe;J cw;gj;jp epiya cupikahsupd; ngau;
Name of the proprietor of the drug manufacturing Center
ksIamdokh lrkq ,nk kj ksIamdokh   j¾.h$ Catogery/ 
jahupf;fg;gLk; Gjpa cw;gj;jp tiffs;;;;;;;          Wmf,aLkh$ Schedule
Name of new ayurveda product
kj ksIamdokh ksIamdokh i|yd wkqu; jQ Èkh 
Gjpa cw;gj;jpf;fhf mDkjpf;fg;gl;l jpfjp
The date the new product is approved for production 
WmfoaYl ffjoHjrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
MNyhrid itj;jpahpd; ngau; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Name of the Consultant physican and registration No.
 
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 123 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
123a
wdhq¾fõo Tiq ie,la ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj  kUe;J tpw;gid epiyaj;jpidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN oF aN ayUrVEda  pHarmaCy 
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo Tiq ie,la f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj  Gjpa  cw;gj;jpiag;iag; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an ayurveda pharmacy.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla 
i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ....... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wdhq¾fõo Tiqif,a ku     
kUe;J tpw;gid epiyaj;jpd; ngau;   
Name of the ayurveda pharmacy
wdhq¾fõo Tiqif,a ,smskh         
kUe;J tpw;gid epiyaj;jpd; Kfthp
address of the ayurveda pharmacy  
wdhq¾fõo Tiqi, whs;slref.a ku
kUe;J tpw;gid epiya cupikahsupd; ngau;
Name of the proprietor of the ayurveda pharmacy  
wf,ú lrkq ,nk T!IO ldKav      
tpw;gid nra;ag;gLk; kUe;Jfs;
Categories of drugs sold
wdhq¾fõo Tiqi, wdrïN l< Èkh
kUe;J tpw;gid epiyak; Muk;gpf;fg;gl;l jpfjp      
date of Establishment of ayurveda pharmacy
wdhq¾fõo Tiqi, Ndrj isák ffNIÊcljrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
kUe;J tpw;gid epiya kUe;jhsupd; ngah; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Name registration Number of the pharmacist in charge of the ayurveda pharmacy
       ………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 124 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
124a
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdjla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj  kUe;J fsQ;rpakhfg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN oF aN ayUrVEdiC drUG ST orE  
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdjla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj  kUe;J fsQ;rpakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, the place detailed below has been registered as an ayurveda drug store.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla 
i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ..... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdfõ ku     
kUe;J fsQ;rpa epiyaj;jpd; ngau;   
Name of ayurveda drug store
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdfõ ,smskh         
kUe;J fsQ;rpa epiyaj;jpd; Kfthp
address of the ayurveda drug store
.nvdj wh;a iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$ whs;slref.a ku
kUe;J fsQ;rpa cupikahsupd; ngau;
Name of the company/business/proprietor whom the store belongs
.nvd lrkq ,nk ksIamdok ldKav      
fsQ;rpag;gLj;jg;gLk; kUe;Jfspd; tiffs;
Categories of drugs being stored
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdj wdrïN jQ Èkh
kUe;Jf; fsQ;rpak; epWtg;gl;l jpfjp      
date of Establishment of ayurveda drug store
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvdj Ndrj isák ffNIÊcljrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
kUe;Jf; fsQ;rpa kUe;jhsupd; ngah; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Name of the registration Number of the pharmacist in charge of the ayurveda drug store
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 125 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
125a
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN oF imporTaTioN oF ayUrVEda  prodUCTS 
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAh;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, that the registration for import of ayurveda products is granted to the Company/Business/individuals whose details are below.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' 
ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku     
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah;   
Name of ayurveda products importing Company/Business/individual
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh         
MAs;Ntj  cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; Kfthp
address of ayurveda products importing Company/Business/individual
wdkhkh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok
,wf;Fkjp MAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jpfs;
imported ayurveda products
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdokh wdkhk wjYH;djh
 m¾fhaIK  kso¾Yl  wf,úh   ....................
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjp Njit  Muha;r;rp         khjphp            tpw;gid   ....................
import requirement of ayurveda products             research               Specimen                 Sale                       ....................
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskh
MAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jp fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;      
Name and address of ayurveda product store
wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh
,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;
Number and date of import Export Control department registration
foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlh
Njrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;
Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wdkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
Nkw;gb nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Sri lanka Customs registration number obtained for import of ayurveda products
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 126 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
126a
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN oF ExporTaTioN oF ayUrVEda  drUG prodUCTS 
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk; mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, that the registration for Export of ayurveda products is granted to the Company/Business/individuals whose details are below.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla 
i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ..... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
T!IO wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku     
MAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah;
Name of ayurveda products exporting Company/Business/individual     
T!IO wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; Kfthp 
address of ayurveda products exporting Company/Business/individual        
wmkhkh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok
Vw;Wkjp MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs;
Exported ayurveda products      
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhk wjYH;djh m¾fhaIK  kso¾Yl  wf,úh   ....................
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jp Vw;Wkjp Njit  Muha;r;rp         khjphp            tpw;gid  ....................
Export requirement of ayurveda products             research               Specimen                 Sale                       ....................
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskh
MAs;Ntj kUe;J cw;gj;jp fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;      
Name and address of ayurveda product store
wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh
,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;
Number and date of import Export Control department registration
foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlh
Njrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;
Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok wmkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
Nkw;gb nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Sri lanka Customs registration number obtained for export of ayurveda products
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 127 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
127a
wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wdkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE  oF  rEGiSTraTioN  oF  imporTaTioN  oF  ayUrVEda   raW  ma TErialS
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wdkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by 
the department of ayurveda, that the registration for import of ayurveda raw materials is granted to the Company/Business/individuals whose details are 
below.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' l ld,hla 
i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ...... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wuqøjH wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku     
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah;   
Name of ayurveda raw materials importing Company/Business/individual
wuqøjH wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh         
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; Kfthp
address of ayurveda raw materials importing Company/Business/individual
wdkhkh lrkq ,nk wuqøjH
,wf;Fkjp %yg;nghUl;fs;
imported ayurveda raw materials
wuqøjH wdkhk wjYH;djh
                              m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl  wf,úh   ....................
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp Njit    Muha;r;rp        khjphp           tpw;gid  ....................
import requirement of ayurveda raw materials                research               Specimen                 Sale                       ....................
wuqøjH .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskh
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;      
Name and address of ayurveda raw materials store
wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh
,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk
Number and date of import Export Control department registration
foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlh
Njrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;
Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department
wuqøjH wdkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
%yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Sri lanka Customs regsiration number obtained for import of ayurveda raw materials
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kï tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 128 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
128a
wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wmkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjpapidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE  oF  rEGiSTraTioN  oF  ExporTaTioN  oF  raW  ma TErialS
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH wmkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjpf;fhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;s vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by 
the department of ayurveda, that the registration for export of ayurveda raw materials is granted to the Company/Business/individuals whose details are 
below.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' ld,hla 
i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ......... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wuqøjH wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku     
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; ngah;   
Name of ayurveda raw materials exporting Company/Business/individual
wuqøjH wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh         
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp epWtdk;/tpahghuk;/jdpeghpd; Kfthp
address of ayurveda raw materials exporting Company/Business/individual
wmkhkh lrkq ,nk wuqøjH
Vw;Wkjp MAs;Ntj  %yg;nghUl;fs;
Exported ayurveda raw materials
wuqøjH wmkhk wjYH;djh
                              m¾fhaIK kso¾Yl  wf,úh   ....................
MAu;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp Njit    Muha;r;rp        khjphp           tpw;gid  ....................
export requirement of ayurveda raw materials                research               Specimen                 Sale                       ....................
wuqøjH .nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskh
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;      
Name and address of ayurveda raw materials store
wmkhk ixj¾Ok uKav,fha ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh
,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;;;;;;;
Number and date of import and Export Control department registration
foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlh
Njrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;
Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department
wuqøjH wmkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
%yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ngwg;gl;Ls;sjh
Sri lanka Customs regsiration number obtained for export of ayurveda raw materials
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù kua tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 129 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
129a
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,sh i|yd weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH
wdkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfspw;fhd / kUe;Jg; nghjpfs;  / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs; vd;gdtw;wpd; 
,wf;Fkjpapidg; gjpT nra;tjw;fhd tpz;zg;gk;
CErTiFiCaTE oF imporT rEGiSTrTioN oF paCKaGiNG/prESErV aTiVES/
ExpCipiENTS For ayUrVEda  maNUFaCTUriNG proCESS
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,shg wjYH my; weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH wdkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh 
,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ 
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjpf;fhf gjpT nra;tjw;fhd epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid 
cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, that the registration for import of packaging/preservatives/excipient materials required for the ayurveda manufactuing process is 
granted to the Company/Business/individuals whose details are below.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' 
ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J .......x tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku
,wf;Fkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; ngau;
Name of importing Company/Business/individual     
wdkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh      
,wf;Fkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; Kfthp
address of importing Company/Business/individual
wdkhkh lrkq ,nk weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH   
,wf;Fkjp kUe;Jg; nghjpfs; / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs;
imported packaging/preservatives/excipient materials
wdkhk wjYHd;djh  m¾fhaIK   kso¾Yl  ksIamdokh  wf,úh   ....................
,wf;Fkjp Njit   Muha;r;rp   khjphp                                cw;gj;jp  tpw;gid  ....................
import requirement        research                  Specimen     production       Sale                        ....................
.nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskh
fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;
Name and address of store
wdkhk wmkhk md,k fomd¾;fïka;= ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh
,wf;Fkjp kw;Wk; Vw;Wkjpf; fl;Lg;ghl;Lj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;
Number and date of import Export Control department registration 
foaYSh wdo dhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlh
Njrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;                               
Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department
wdkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
%yg;nghUl;fs; ,wf;Fkjp nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;                                           
Sri lanka Customs registration number obtained for import  
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 130 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
130a
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,sh i|yd weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH wmkhk ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfspw;fhd / kUe;Jg; nghjpfs;  / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs; vd;gdtw;wpd; 
Vw;Wkjpapidg; gjpT nra;tjw;fhd tpz;zg;gk;
CErTiFiCaTE oF ExporT rEGiSTrTioN oF paCKaGiNG/prESErV aTiVES/
ExpCipiENTS For ayUrVEda  maNUFaCTUriNG proCESS
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk iud.u$jHdmdrh$mqoa.,hdg my; wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok ls%hdj,shg wjYH my; weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH wmkhkh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh 
,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfspw;fhd/kUe;Jg; nghjpfs;/ ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs;/Jizj; jputpaq;fs; vd;gdtw;wpd; Vw;Wkjpf;fhfg; 
gjpT nra;tjw;fhf epiyakhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.
i am hereby approving that in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, that the registration for export of packaging/preservatives/excipient materials required for the ayurveda manufacturing process 
is granted to the company/individual whose details are below.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' 
ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ....... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku
Vw;Wkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; ngau;
Name of Exporting Company/Business/individual     
wmkhk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh
Vw;Wkjp epWtdk; /tpahghuk; /jdpeghpd; Kfthp
address of Exporting Company/Business/individual
      
wmkhkh lrkq ,nk weiqreï$ixrlaIK øjH$iydhl øjH
Vw;Wkjp kUe;Jg; nghjpfs; / ghJfhg;Gj; jputpaq;fs; / Jizj; jputpaq;fs;     
Exporting packaging/preservatives/excipient materials
wmkhk wjYH;djh   m¾fhaIK  kso¾Yl  ksIamdokh              wf,úh   ....................
Vw;Wkjp Njit                            Muha;r;rp                        khjphp                          cw;gj;jp                        tpw;gid  ....................
import requirement            research          Specimen         production        Sale        ....................
.nvd lrk ia:dkfha ku yd ,smskh
fsQ;rpaj;jpd; ngaUk; KfthpAk;
Name and address of store
YS% ,xld wmkhk ixj¾Ok uKav,fha ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh yd Èkh
,yq;if Vw;Wkjp mgptpUj;jpj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; gjpTr; rhd;wpjo; ,yf;fKk; jpfjpAk;
Number and date of import Export Control department registration 
foaYSh wdodhï fomd¾;fïka;=j u.ska ksl=;a l< nÿ wkkH;d wxlh
Njrpa tUkhdj; jpizf;fsj;jpd; %yk; toq;fg;gLfpd;w thp milahs ,yf;fk;
Tax Identification Number issued by the Inland Revenue Department
wmkhkh i|yd ,nd.;a YS% ,xld f¾.=fõ ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
%yg;nghUl;fs; Vw;Wkjp  nra;tjw;fhf ,yq;if Rq;fj;jpd; gjpT ,yf;fk;              
Sri lanka Customs registration number obtained for export  
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 131 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
131a
LICENCE TO IMPORT AN AYURVEDA PRODUCT AS SAMPLES 
FOR TEST/ EXAMINATION/ ANALYSIS/ CLINICAL TRIAL/ 
DISTRIbUTION AS PHYSICIAN’S SAMPLES
licence No.: ………………………………….
…………………..………………………………………………………………………… of ………………… 
…………………………………………………………………. is/are hereby licenced to import from ……………………
………………………………………………………………………… the Ayurveda product specified below for the purpose 
of test/ examination/ analysis/ clinical trial/ distribution as physician’s samples.
This licence is subject to conditions prescribed in the ayurveda Code for ayurveda medicine and Surgery regulations, 2024 
made under the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 and shall be in force during the period stated in this licence, unless it is earlier 
suspended or cancelled.
Generic name of ayurveda product : ..........................
Brand name (if any)  : ..........................
Quantity    : ..........................
pack size(s)   : ..........................
Country of the origin  : ..........................
Name of the manufacturer  : ..........................
Contact details of the manufacturer : ..........................
period of validity of the licence : ..........................
date of issue   : ..........................
receipt No. for fees paid and date : ..........................
……………………………
Commissioner General of ayurveda
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna, 
maharagama.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 132 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
132a
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjidg; gjpT nra;Ak;  rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN For TraNSporT oF ayUrVEdiC prodUCTS
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj  rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g 
fPo;f; Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLtjw;fhf ; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid 
cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;. 
i am hereby approved that the ayurvedic products listed below have been registered for transportation in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 
and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the department of ayurveda.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' 
ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ...... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; ngau;
Name of Company/ Business/ individual transporting ayurveda products    
wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh     
MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; Kfthp
address of Company/ Business/ individual transporting ayurveda products
m%jdykh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo ksIamdok j¾. 
NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLk; MAs;Ntj cw;gj;jpfs;
Types of ayurveda products transported
whÿïlre i;= wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fjys ,shdmÈxÑ ksIamdokd.dr$.nvd$Tiqie,a úia;r
tpz;zg;gjhhpaplk; MAs;Ntj jpizf;fs gjpT ,yf;fk; cw;gj;jp epiyak; / fsQ;rpak; / tpw;gid epiya juTfs;            
details of manufactures/ stores/ pharmacies registered with the department of ayurveda owned by the applicant
wdh;kfha ku  ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh  ,smskh
epWtdj;jpd; ngah;  gjpT ,yf;fk;   Kfthp 
Name of Institute  No of Registration   Address
......................................... ..................................  .........................................................
......................................... ..................................  .........................................................
m%jdykh i|yd fhdod.kq ,nk r:h ms<sn| úia;r
NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjw;fhfg; gad;gLj;jg;gLk; thfdk; gw;wpa tpguq;fs;:
details of the vehicle used for transportation
j¾.h thfd tif Type ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh thfd ,y. No of registration  j¾Kh epwk; Colour
......................................... .................................................................  ....................................
......................................... .................................................................  ....................................
......................................... .................................................................  ....................................
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 133 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
133a
wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl m;%h
MAs;Ntj  %yg;nghUl;fs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjidg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN For TraNSporT oF raW ma TErialS
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh i|yd ,shdmÈxÑh ,nd fok nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj  rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLtjw;fhf ; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid 
cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;.
i am hereby approved that the ayurveda raw materials below have been registered for transportation in accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 
and subject to the orders and instructions issued from time to time by the department of ayurveda.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' 
ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ......... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ku    
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; ngau;
Name of Company/ Business/ individual transporting ayurveda raw material
wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdykh lrk iud.fï$jHdmdrfha$mqoa.,hdf.a ,smskh     
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fis NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; epWtdj;jpd; / tpahghuj;jpd; /jdp eghpd; Kfthp
address of Company/ Business/ individual transporting ayurveda raw material
m%jdykh lrkq ,nk wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH j¾. 
NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;yg;gLk; MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs;
Types of ayurveda raw material transported
wdhq¾fõo wuqøjH m%jdyk wjYH;djh - wdkhkh$wmkhkh$ksIamdokhg$.nvdlrKhg$foaYSh fj<|fmd,
MAs;Ntj %yg;nghUl;fs; NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;Yk; Njit Vw;Wkjp / ,wf;Fkjp / cw;gj;jpf;F / fsQ;rpaj;jpw;F / cs;ehl;L re;ij
ayurveda raw material transportation requirement -
 import/Export/production/Storing/local market
whÿïlre i;= wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fjys ,shdmÈxÑ ksIamdokd.dr$.nvd$Tiqie,a úia;r
tpz;zg;gjhhpaplk; MAs;Ntj jpizf;fs gjpT ,yf;fk; cw;gj;jp epiyak; / fsQ;rpak; / tpw;gid epiya juTfs;            
details of manufactures/ stores/ pharmacies registered with the department of ayurveda owned by the applicant
wdh;kfha ku epWtdj;jpd; ngau; Name of Institute ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh gjpT ,yf;fk No of Registration ,smskh Kfthp Address
...................................................................................... .....................................................   ……………...............
...................................................................................... .....................................................   ……………...............
    
m%jdykh i|yd fhdod.kq ,nk r:h ms<sn| úia;r
NtW ,lq;fspw;F vLj;Jr; nry;tjw;fhfg; gad;gLj;jg;gLk; thfdk; gw;wpa tpguq;fs;
details of the vehicle used for transportation
j¾.h thfd tif Type ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh thfd ,y. No of Registration  j¾Kh epwk; Colour
......................................... .................................................................  ....................................
......................................... .................................................................  ....................................
......................................... .................................................................  ....................................
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 134 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
134a
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.d N+ñhla ,shdmÈxÑ lsÍfï iy;sl wxlh
MAs;Ntj kUe;Jfs; cw;gj;jp tpis epyj;ijg; gjpT nra;Ak; rhd;wpjo;
CErTiFiCaTE oF rEGiSTraTioN oF aN ayUrVEda  mEdiCiNal CUlTiV aTiNG laNd  
j,x.= ld,h   Èk isg  Èk olajd  iy;sl m;%fha wxlh
nry;YgbahFk;   njhlf;fk; tiu   rhd;wpjopd; ,yf;fk;
Valid Period      from               Up to   Certificate No.
wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;==j úiska 1961 wxl 31 ork wdhq¾fõo mkf;a m%ldrj yd jßkajr ksl=;a lrkq ,nk ksfhda. yd Wmfoiaj,g hg;aj my; úia;r 
oelafjk ia:dkh wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.d N+ñhla f,ig ,shdmÈxÑ lrk ,o nj lrk ,o nj fuhska iy;sl lrñ'
1961 Mk; Mz;bd; 31 Mk; ,yf;f MAs;Ntj rl;lj;jpd; gpufhuk; fhyj;jpw;Ff; fhyk; toq;fg;gLk; fl;lis kw;Wk;  mwpTWj;jy;fSf;F Vw;g fPo;f; 
Fwpg;gplg;gLk; epiyakhdJ MAs;Ntj kUe;Jfs; tpis epykhfg; gjpT nra;ag;gl;Ls;sJ vd;gjid cWjpg;gLj;Jfpd;Nwd;. 
i am hereby approving that accordance with the ayurveda act No. 31 of 1961 and subject to orders and instructions issued from time to time by the 
department of ayurveda, that the following details have been registered as an ayurveda medicinal cultivation land.
ud úiska fyda kS;s lD;Hhl kS;Hkql+, ksfhda.hla u.ska l,ska wj,x.= fkdlrkq ,enqjfyd;a ñi fuu fuu iy;sl m;%fha i|yka Èk isg jir ''''''' 
ld,hla i|yd fuu iy;slh j,x.=j mj;S'
vd;dhy; my;yJ rl;lj;jpd; Vw;ghLfspd;; %yk; ,uj;Jr; nra;ag;glhtpl;lhy;> ,r; rhd;wpjo; gj;jpuj;jpy; Fwpg;gplg;gl;Ls;s jpdj;jpypUe;J ....... tUl 
fhyj;jpw;F ,r; rhd;wpjo;  nry;YgbahFk;.
This certificate shall remain valid for a period of …… year from the date of this certificate unless revoked earlier by me or by legal order of a legal act.
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj whs;slref.a ku
MAs;Ntj xslj tpis epyj;jpd; chpikahshpd; ngau;
Name of the owner of ayurveda medicinal cultivation land
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj whs;slref.a ,smskh
MAs;Ntj xslj tpis epyj;jpd; chpikahshpd; Kfthp:\
address of the owner of ayurveda medicinal cultivation land
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dfõ ku
MAs;Ntj xslj Tpis epyj;jpd; ngau;
Name of ayurveda medicinal cultivation land     
 
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj msysá ia:dkfha ,smskh
MAs;Ntj xslj tpis epyj;jpd; Kfthp
address of ayurveda medicinal cultivation land
j.d lrkq ,nk T!IO j¾.
tpistpf;fg;gLk; xsljq;fspd; tiffs;
Types of medicines being cultivated 
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dlr we;s bvï m%udKh
MAs;Ntj xsljq;fs;  tpistpf;fg;gll epyj;jpd; msT
area of land under cultivation of ayurveda medicines
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj wdrïN l< Èkh
MAs;Ntj xslj tsu;g;G Muk;gpf;fg;gl;l jpfjp
date of commencement of ayurveda medicinal cultivation land       
wdhq¾fõo T!IO j.dj Ndrj isák lDIs WmfoaYljrhdf.a ku iy ,shdmÈxÑ wxlh
MAs;Ntj xsljq;fs tpisr;riy Nkw;ghu;it nra;Ak; MNyhrfhpd; ngau; kw;Wk; gjpT ,yf;fk;
Name and registration number of agriculture supervisor in charge of ayurveda medicinal cultivation
………………………………………
       wdhq¾fõo flduidßia ckrd,a                 
       MAs;Ntj Mizahsu; ehafk;
                   Commissioner  General of a yurveda
20''''''''''''''''''''''''''ui''''''''''''''''''''''''jeks Èk mrK fldÜgdj mdr" kdúkak" uyr.u wdhq¾fõo fomd¾;fïka;=fõ§ h'
MAs;Ntj jpizf;fsk;> k`ufk. 20 ....................... Mk; Mz;L ...................... khjk; ................ Mk; jpfjp
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna,maharagama
ix,laIHh ( by; i|yka úia;r iïnkaOfhka lsishï fjkila we;s ù ku tA nj Èk 14 la we;=<; oekqï Èh hq;=h'
ftdpg;G: Nkw;$wg;gl;l tpguq;fspy; khw;wk; vitNaDk;  Vw;gl;lhy;> mk;khw;wj;jpid 14 ehl;fSf;Fs; mwptpf;f Ntz;Lk;.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 135 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
135a
TEMPORARY/ PERMANENT LICENCE 
FOR CULTIV ATE, MANUFACTURE, PURCHASE, STORAGE, DISTRIbUTION, SALE, 
EXPORT OF CANNAbIS AND CANNAbIS RELATED ARTICLES, SUbSTANCE OR DRUGS 
AND AYURVEDA PRODUCTS
licence No: ………………………………….
…………………..………………………………………………………………………… of ………………… 
…………………………………………………………………. is/are hereby temporary/ permanent licenced to operate 
cultivation, manufacturing, purchase, storage, distribution, sale, export Cannabis and Cannabis related articles, substance or 
drugs and ayurveda products, from …………………… to ………………………… .
This licence is subject to conditions prescribed in the ayurveda Code for ayurveda medicine and Surgery regulations, 2024 
made under the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961 and shall be in force during the period stated in this licence, unless it is earlier 
suspended or cancelled.
Type of licence    : ..........................
Type of ayurveda product  : ..........................
Brand name (if any)  : ..........................
period of validity of the licence : ..........................
date of issue   : ..........................
receipt No. for fees paid and date : ..........................
……………………………
Commissioner General of ayurveda
.....................of …………………………20 ………………… department of ayurveda, old Kottawa road, Navinna, 
maharagama.
N.B. Any change in the above particulars must be notified within 14 days.

<!-- page 136 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
136a
Schedule V
SPECIFICATION RELATING TO PACKING, LAbELLING AND CONTENTS OF  A  bROCHURE
 
Label and Packing Contents of the brochure
The container of every medicine imported, manufactured, processed or packed locally or sold or exposed for sale shall have 
a label bearing the following information in with the National language policy requirement.
(a) The official or generic name.
(b) if conformity with a pharmacopeial monograph is claimed for a product, relevant labeling requirements given 
in both general and specific monographs shall be adhered to.
(c) The brand/ proprietary name (if any): The brand name should not be already registered for another product.
(d) a statement of the active substance(s) showing quantitative particulars:
(i) The quantity of each active ingredient, identified by its appropriate non- proprietary name, in each dosage 
unit of the medicinal product expressed in terms of weight, volume, capacity or units of activity; or
(ii) where there is no dosage unit, the quantity of each active ingredient identified by its appropriate non- 
proprietary name, in the container of the medical product expressed in terms of weight, volume, capacity, 
or units of activity or percentage by weight or volume of the total quantity;
(e) pack size: the number of doses, contained in the pack with reference to weight, or volume of the contents.
(f) Excipient(s) known to have undesirable effects and any other similar ingredients specified by the Authority.
(g) The dosage.
(h) The route of administration for injectable products.
(i) Storage temperature and, other special storage precautions if any.
(j) a special warning that the product must be stored out of reach of children.
(k) Specific instructions if the product needs to be reconstituted, diluted, or prepared by any other means prior to 
its use.
(l) Where applicable, the product is sterile.
(m) Where applicable, the product is free from bacterial endotoxins or the product is apyrogenic.
(n) For injectable solutions, not to use if visible particles are present.
(o) any other special warnings and precautions that may be necessary for the particular medicinal product.
(p) The date of manufacture in clear terms (month/ year)
(q) The date of expiry in clear terms (month/ year)

<!-- page 137 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'08
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2024
137a
(r) The batch or lot number assigned by the manufacturer, and
(s) The period for which the medicine can be used after the opening of the container or after the reconstitution of 
the product, if applicable as the case may be.
(t) Specific precautions relating to disposal of unused quantities of the product, where applicable.
(u) The name of the manufacturer and address of the manufacturing site.
• The name and address of the batch releaser shall be used, if different from the drug product manufacturer.
• Where the product owner is different to the manufacturer, the label shall indicate such face in the following 
manner: ‘manufactured by (name and address of actual manufacturer) for (name of product owner)’.
• The name and address of the packaging site(s) may be included [if different from the manufacturing/ release 
site (s)]
directives of the National languages Commission
In keeping with the National Languages Policy requirements, the official or generic name shall be displayed in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English languages.
• For medicines dispensed with an intact outer carton (e.g. a liquid bottle, an ointment tube), displaying the name in local 
languages on the outer carton is sufficient.
• if the product is taken out from the outer carton for dispensing (e.g. blister strips) or if the product has no outer carton, 
the primary label should indicate the name in local languages.
• The requirement is not compulsory for injections which require professional healthcare staff for administration.
Exemptions for smaller labels
primary labels on smaller containers such as a blister strip, an ampoule or vial with a volume of 10 ml or less shall contain 
the following minimum information:-
(a) the generic or common name,
(b) the brand name (where applicable),
(c) the strength of the drug (where applicable),
(d) lot or Batch number,
(e) the date of expiry; and 
(f) the name or logo of the manufacturer or the product owner.
in addition, route of administration shall be indicated for injections. This may be indicated in abbreviations. The storage 
instructions shall be indicated on strips.
The information exempted on the primary label should be included on the outer carton and/ or the leaflets.
Where practicable, the name and strength of the product should appear over each blister pocket or be oriented centrally 
across the pack. it is important that the particulars remain available to the user up to the point at which the last does is 
removed from the blister pack.
General information provided in the labels should be consistent with the information.  
PRinteD at  the DeP aR tment  OF GOVeRnment  PRintinG,  sRi LanKa.