

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1857
1857
wxl 1"932 - 2015 iema;eïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'09'11
No. 1,932 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 11, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1860
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1862
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd October, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th
September,  2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.— (i) Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,931 of  04.09.2015 was not published.
(ii) The list of Jurors in Kurunegala and Kuliyapitiya Jurisdiction area in year 2015 have been published in Part VI of this Gazette
in all three languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1858
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1859
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1860
Posts – Vacant
FOOD  COMMISSIONER'S  DEPARTMENT
Office Based/Field Based Officer Recruitment to the
Post of (Grade II Quality Controller)
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka to
fill the vacant post of office based/field based officer (Grade II
Quality Controller) of Food Commissioner's Department.
02. Method of Recruitment.– The candidate, who score the highest
marks at the structural interview conducted by the Interview Board
appointed by the Food Commissioner, out of the applicants who
fulfill the qualifications specified in this notification will be selected
for this post. The structural interview will be conducted in
compliance with the marking scheme approved by the Public Service
Commission (as indicated under No. 6).
02. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Having obtained a degree
in Food Technology from a university recognized by
the University Grants Commission.
(ii) Professional Qualifications .– Having obtained a
certificate following a computer course of not less than
300 ours from an institute recognized by Tertiary and
V ocational Education Commission.
(iii) Experience.– Experience regarding quality controlling
would be considered as an added qualification.
(iv) Physical Recquirements. – Every applicant should be
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the
Island and to perform the duties of the post.
(v) Other Qualifications :
* Must be a Sri Lankan citizen.
* Must be of excellent character.
* Must have fulfilled the qualifications for the
recruitment to the post in every respect as at the
closing date of applications.
03. Terms of Engagement and Terms of Service :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable and should
contribute to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(ii) The appointment will be subject to a probationary
period of 03 years. And the appointee should pass the
first Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years from
the date of appointment to the post of office based/
field based officer (Quality Controller Grade II) as
specified in the Scheme of Recruitment.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
and the circulars incidental thereto, the successful
candidate should obtain the relevant proficiency in the
official language other than the official language he/she
joins the public service within a period of 5 years from
joining the post.
(iv) This appointment should be subjected to the procedural
rules of the Public Service Commission and the
provisions of the Establishment Code.
04. Age limit.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years and
not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
05. Salary Scale.– The monthly salary scale attached to the post
is Rs. 16,720 - 10x320 -11x365 -15x450 - Rs. 30,685. (Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007 and MN
05-2006A salary segment).
06. The structural interview will be conducted based on the
following marking scheme :–
Subject Maximum
marks
(i) Additional Educational Qualifications 20
(ii) Professional Qualifications 20
(iii) Experience 25
(iv) Computer literacy 15
(v) English Language Proficiency 15
(vi) Skills demonstrated at the interview 05
–––
Total 100
07. Identity of Candidates .– Candidates who have forwarded
completed applications in every aspect will only be called for the
structural interview.
The originals and certified copies of all certificates should be
submitted at the interview. Following identification papers will be
accepted at the interview to establish the identity of candidates :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
General of Registration of Persons.
(ii) V alid passport.
08. Method of Application :
(a) The completed application forms should be sent under
registered post to reach the following address, on or

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1861
before 07th October 2015. Applications received after
the due date will be rejected :
Food Commissioner,
Food Commissioner's Department,
No. 330,
Union Place,
Colombo 02.
(b) The specimen of the application to be submitted appears
at the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare
their own application forms on a A4 paper so as to
appear item Nos. 01 to 05 on the first page and item
Nos. 06 to 12 on the second page and fill them in their
own hand writing.
(c) The words "Application for the (permanent) post of
office based/field based Officer (Grade II Quality
Controller)" should be written at the top left-hand corner
of the envelope enclosing the application.
(d) The signature of the candidate in the application should
be attested by a Principal of a Government School/
Justice of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-
at-Law/Notary Public/Commissioned Officer of the
three Armed Forces or a Public Officer holding a
permanent post and drawing a consolidated monthly
salary of Rs. 22,935.
(e) Candidats who are already in the Public or Provincial
Public Services, should forward their applications
through the respective Heads of their Departments in
which they are serving at present.
(f) Applications which do not conform to the specimen
given here will be rejected. No complaints regarding
delays or losses to any application will not be
entertained.
09. Furnishing False Particulars. – If any of the particulars
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before the
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled.
In case such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment,
action will be taken for dismissal from service.
10. Food Commissioner reserves the right either to fill or not to
fill the vacancies in the post.
In the event of any inconsistency among the Sinhala, English
and Tamil texts of this Gazette notification the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
N. N
IMALKA DIAS,
Food Commissioner.
Food Commissioner's Department,
No. 330, Union Place,
Colombo 02,
25th September, 2015.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
R
ECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF OFFICE BASED/FIELD BASED
(GRADE II QUALITY CONTROLLER) OF FOOD COMMISSIONER'S
DEPARTMENT - 2015
01. 1.1 Surname first and initials of the other names then (In
Block Capitals) :–––––––––––––––.
(Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA H. M. S. K.)
1.2 Full Name (In Block Capitals) :–––––––––––––––.
1.3 Full Name :–––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Telephone No. :
2.4 Official Address :–––––––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
03. Sex :
Male - 0
Female - 1 (Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
04. Date of Birth :
Y ear Month Date
Age as at the closing date :
Years Months Days
05. Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Year obtained and degree in Food Technology :–––––––.
5.2 University :–––––––––––––––.
5.3 Pass :–––––––––––––––.
06. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––––.
07. Experience :–––––––––––––––.
08. Have you been convicted before a court of Law ? :–––––––––.
(Indicate 
 in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
(If "Yes" explain) :–––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1862
9.0 Whether you terminated the post within tour previous service in public service ? :–––––––––––––––.
10.0 Applicant's Declaration :
I certify that the particulars given by me in this application are true and correct. I am aware that if any of the particulars contained
herein are found to be false or incorrect prior to selection. I shall be disqualified and if detected after appointment, I am l iable for
dismissed without any compensation.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
11. Attestation of Applicant's Signature :
(As per of paragraph 08(c) of Gazette notification)
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms ......................................... (full name) who is submitting this application is personal ly known to
me, and he/she has placed his/her signature in my presence on the ......................... day of ..........................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––––.
Position :–––––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
12.0 In case of a public officer attestation of the Head of the Department/Institute :
I, certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. who is submitting this application is a permanent/casual/temporary employee
of this Ministry/Department/Provincial Council/Institute and in the event of his/her selection for the above post he/she can be  released.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and Official Stamp of the Head of the
Department or the Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––––––.
Position :–––––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the official frank)
09–227
TELECOMMUNICATIONS   REGULATORY
COMMISSION   OF   SRI   LANKA   (TRCSL)
Examination for the Issue of Amateur Radio Operator’s
License by the TRCSL
1. CATEGORIES of Amateur Radio Operator’ s License :
(a) Amateur Radio Operator’s Advance Class License,
(b) Amateur Radio Operator’s General Class License,
(c) Amateur Radio Operator’s Novice Class License.
2. Minimum Entry Requirements.– Every candidate entering for
the examination must be fourteen (14) years of age or over on the
closing date of applications.
3. Scheme of Examination :
(a) Advance Class.– The examination consists of two parts :
Part 1:- Two (2) compulsory written papers to be
undertaken at one sitting :
Paper I - Advance Electrical Technology and Radio
Communications (3 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (2 hours).
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1863
Part 2 :- Practical Morse Code Test(05 words per minute).
(b) General Class.–  The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper I  - Fundamentals of Electricity and Radio
Communications (2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (1hour).
(c) Novice Class .– The examination consists of two parts.
Two (2) compulsory written papers to be undertaken at
one sitting :
Paper 1 - Basic Electricity, Radio and Electronic
Theory (2 hours) ;
Paper II - Licensing Conditions, Operating Practices
and Procedures (1 hour).
4. Conditions of Examinations.– The following conditions shall
apply to all categories of Amateur Radio License Examinations :
(i) To pass the examination, the candidates should pass all
papers of the examination.
(ii) Candidates must pass the two (2) written papers of the
examination at the same sitting.
(iii) Only those candidates who pass Part 1 of the examination
will be allowed to appear for Part 2 (Morse test) in case
of Advance class.
5. Medium of Examination.– The examination will be conducted
in English Medium only.
6. Examination Fees.– Applicants who conform to the
requirements of the examination are required to remit the examination
fees mentioned in this notification to the "Telecommunications
Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". If further information in
this regared is required, the applicants are requested to write to the
TRCSL.
The examination fee is payable either by a money order or a pay
order/draft from any Bank drawn in the name of the
"Telecommunications Regulatory Commission of Sri Lanka". The
entry form must be sent by recorded delivery on registered post or
delivered by hand. Official receipts must be retained as TRCSL will
not consider any claim that form has been overlooked or lost unless
proof of posting of delivery is produced.
Fees are not refundable  or cannot be transferred from one
examination to another at a later date. Any candidate who withdraws
his application or cannot appear for the examination due to any
reason whatsoever will be required to pay approximate examination
fee for any subsequent entry.
Category of Fee for Part 1 Fee for Part 2
Examination Rs. cts. Rs. cts.
Advance Class 276.00 138.00
General Class 138.00 -
Novice Class 138.00 -
Note.– The above mentioned examination fees are inclusive of
all applicable taxes.
7. Closing Date of Application .– The examination will be held
twice each year in April and October. The date of examination will
be informed by the Commissioner of Examinations. Applications
must be made on the appropriate entry form obtained from the
under mentioned office, completed, and submitted to the address
given below on or before the closing date mentioned below :–
Director General,
TRCSL,
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08.
Category of License Last Date of Entry
Advance Class
General Class 30.09.2015
Novice Class
8. Attestation.– Candidate's signature must be attested by one of
the following :
A Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, an Attorney-at-
Law and Notary Public, Commissioned Officer of the Army, Navy
or Air Force, Gazetted Officer of the Police, a person holding a
permanent post in the State Service drawing a consolidated salary
of not less than Rs. 493,920 per annum. All other applications will
be rejected.
9. Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity in the examination and for this purpose any
of the following documents will be accepted :
(a
) A valid Identity Card issued by the Postmaster - General ;
(b) A valid Passport ;
(c) An Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
All candidates are required to act in conformity with the
Provisions of the Examination Act, No.25 of 1968.
Any matters which has not been provided for under these Rules
and Regulations will be settled at the discretion of the Director-
general of Telecommunications.
Director General,
TRCSL.
No. 276, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Manning Town,
Colombo 08,
28th August, 2015.
09-222

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1864
DEPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  –  SRI  LANKA
Final Certificate Examination for Ahadhiya/Al-Qur’an
Schools on Islamic Studies – 2014
(Equivalent to Daham Pasal Final Certificate Examination)
RULES and Regulations.– The above examination will be conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations during November,
2015. Subjects and the syllabus for the examination are given in
Annexure I.
2. Centres for Examination.– Examination Centres will be set up
in towns indicated in Annexure II of this notification. Centres in
any town will be cancelled if sufficient number of candidates has
not requested that town. In case of such cancellation of any town
the candidates will be transferred to centres set up in the nearest
town.
3. Language Medium. – This examination will be conducted in
Tamil, Sinhala and English medium. However, a candidate should
appear for all the subjects in one and the same medium.
4. Eligibility.– Every applicant should have fulfilled at least one
of the following requirements :–
4.1 Should be a student in Grade 10 or Grade 11 in an
Ahadhiya School registered with the Department of
Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.2 Should be a student who has completed the Senior Grade
Al-Quaran Madrasa Syllabus approved by the
Department of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs ;
or
4.3 Should be a student who has passed the subjects of
Islam and Arabic in the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination
conducted by the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
Note :
(i) Applications for this examination should be certified
by the Principal of the Ahadhiya School or by the
Principal of the Al-Qur’an Madrasa or by the Principal
of School to the effect that the candidate has fulfilled
the requirements mentioned under paragraph 4 above.
(ii) An applicant can submit application for this
examination only through the Principal of an Ahadhiya
School or the Principal of a Senior Al-Qur’an Madrasa
or School.
5. In the event a registered Ahadhiya School, Senior Qur'an
Madrasa or a School does not receive the application forms and
instructions by post on time the Principal concerned should contact
the –
Commissioner General of Examinations,
(Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch),
Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
on or before 02nd of October, 2015.
5.1 Applications should be prepared in duplicate. The
original should be forwarded to the Department of
Examinations while the duplicate should be kept filed
in the relevant Institution.
5.2 The closing date of applications will be 16th of October,
2015.
5.3 Applications should be clearly and legibly filled in.
Inaccurately or Illegibly filled applications and those
that are received after the closing date will be rejected.
5.4 Duly perfected applications should be sent under
registered cover to the -
Commissioner General of Examinations,
(Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch),
Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box 1503,
Colombo.
5.5 Applications will not be acknowledged.
5.6 The name of the Examination “Ahadiya/Al Quran
Madrasa Final Certificate Exam – 2014” and the chosen
town for the exam should be clearly written on the top
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
5.7 No document should be annexed to the application.
The Principals of the Institutions should certify to the
effect that the applicant holds the stipulated
qualifications.
6. Mode of Payment :
6.1 The examination fee for all four subjects is Rs. 150 and
the fee for one repeat subject is Rs. 50. No examination
fee will be charged from those who sit for this examination
for the first time.
6.2 The amount which is equal to the total Examination fee
should be paid at any post office and the receipt obtained
should be firmly attached to the application.
7. Admission Cards. – Commissioner General of Examinations
shall issue the Admission Cards through the relevant Heads of the
Institutions. They will handover admission cards to the candidates.
7.1 In the event a candidate fails to produce his/her
Admission Card to the supervisor on the first instance
of sitting the examination or attempting to sit the
Examination at a Centre other than the one allocated to

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1865
him/her by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
his/her candidature can be cancelled.
7.2 The specimen signature of the candidate should be
attested by the Head of the relevant institution or by
an officer in permanent Government service drawing a
salary not less than Rs. 240,360 p. a., or by an Islamic
Priest of Mosque.
7.3 If Admission Card is not received by at least 7 days
before the date of commencement of the examination
the Head of the institution concerned should notify
the Commissioner General of Examinations accordingly.
In all such instances, information should be provided
as indicated below :
(a) Name of Examination,
(b) Name of Ahadhiya School/Madrasa/School, and
the computer number provided to the school,
(c) Name of candidate in full and Address,
(d) The town which is applied for to the examination,
(e) Post Office from which the application was
posted,
(f) Registration number and date.
8. Personnel Identification. – Every applicant should prove his/
her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on all instances he/
she appears for the examination by producing acceptable identity
documents.
8.1 National Identity Card,
8.2 Valid Passport,
8.3 Postal Identity Card.
9. Issue of the Examination Results and Confirmation of the
Result :
9.1 This examination consists of four papers. A candidate
who passes in all four papers in one and the same
sitting will be considered to have passed the
Examination.
9.2 However, if a candidate gets passed in 3 subjects and
fails to get through in the fourth subject in one and the
same sitting he/she will be allowed referral.
Such a candidate should get through the referred subject
within the subsequent two examinations in order to be
considered to have passed in this certificate examination.
(This will be effective from 2011 Examination).
Referred candidates should apply and sit only for the
referred subject.
9.3 Each of the four question papers carries 100 marks and
grades will be awarded as shown below :
Range of marks Grade Symbol
0  – 34 Fail F
35 – 54 Ordinary pass S
55 – 69 Credit pass C
70 – 100 Distinction pass D
9.4 Release of the Results.– Details of examination results
will be posted to the relevant Heads of Institutions.
10. Certificates.– Action will be taken to issue a certificate to
every candidate passing the examination.
11. Re-scrutiny of Answer - scripts .– Opportunity will be
provided for the re-scrutiny of answer-scripts if requested within
30 days from the date of issue of examination results. Such request
should be made through the respective Heads of Institutions, using
the specimen form issued by this Department for this purpose.
A specified fee must be paid.
Such fee will be refunded only in instances where any alteration
is made to the examination results. Applicants or their
representatives will not be granted permission to examine the answer
scripts for any reason what-so-ever.
12. All applicants are bound to act in accordance with the above
conditions. Decision of the Commissioner General of Examinations
on any matter that is not dealt with in this notification will be the
final.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English text of this examination notification the Sinhala text
shall private.
W. M. N. J. P
USHPAKUMARA,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla,
24th August, 2015.
ANNEXURE 1
Subjects and the prescribed Syllabus for the Examination :
There will be four question papers, of three hour duration each.
Structure of the question papers and marks allocation for the
questions will be according to the Gazette notification published on
Gazette No. 1,358 of 10th September, 2004.
F
IRST PAPER
1.Aqeedha, Sharee’ah (Principles and Fundamentals in Islam) and
Arabic Language.
1.1 Aqeedha - General understandings (Al IIahiyath,
Annubuwath, Arroohaniyyath and Assam’iyyath)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1866
1.2 Sections of Aqeedha
* Aqeeda of Ahlussunnah Wal Jama'ath
* Few other Aqeeda sections such as : Jabariya, Kadariyya,
Murjiya, Mu’tazila and Shee'ah
1.3 Tawheedh and Shirk
* Iman and Kufr
* Riddath, Nifak
* History of revelation and compilation of the Qur'an
* Use of Al-Qur'an as a source of Law
* Sunna and history of its collection
* Utilization of Sunna as source of Law
* History of Hadees and the contribution of Muhaddis
* Details relating to Ijthihad
* Ijma as a secondary source
* Kiyas as a secondary source
* History of Fikhu and its Imams.
1.4 Arabic Language :
* Writing with proper shapes of Alphabets
* Writing of small Sentences
* Writing of Arabic words having relation to the subject of
Islam
* Writing of specific Qur'an suras, verses and Hathees.
S
ECOND  PAPER
2. Al-Fiqhul Islami (Islamic Law)
2.1 Details Relating to Ibadath
* Kinds of Ibathath
* Thaharath
2.2 Najees and its categories :
* Methods of cleaning Najees
* Water and its categories
* Wulu, Thayammam and - Procedures existing relating to
bathing
2.3 Zakath :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations
* Collection and distribution
* Minimizing poverty through Zakath and distribution of
 Wealth
2.4 Assawm (Fasting) :
* Significance
* Rules and Regulations and Usefulness
2.5 Hajj :
 Significance
 Rules and Regulations
 Usefulness
2.6  Hajj - Method of Performance
 Farlu, Wajibu, Sunnath
 Hajj performed in addition to Farlu Hajj
2.7 Attention and procedures in Islam relating to food Dressing
and Dwellings.
2.8 Understanding of Jihadh.
2.9 Kurbani and methods of slaughter
2.10 Oaths and V ows.
2.11 Details relating to Muamalath :
 Dignity of earning
 Main transaction (Trading)
 Other transactions ( Eg. Borrowing, Rent)
 Wakfu, Wasiyiyath, Warasath (Public Property,
  Testamentary Property, Inhertited Property)
2.12 Position of man and woman in Islam :
 Marriage Laws in Islam and their uses
 Family life in Islam
 Husband and wife
 Rights and duties of parents and Children
 Talaq and Idhdha
2.13 Jinayath :
 Hudood, Kisas and Ta'zeer
T
HIRD  PAPER
3. Seera and Tarigh
3.1 Socio-Religious position in Arabian Society in the period
before Islam.
3.1.1 Prophet Mohamed (Sal) :
 Life before the Nubuwwath
* Family Lineage
* Youthhood
* Noble characteristics
* Marriage
 Life between Nubuwwath and Hijrath
* Nubuwwath
* Propaganda of Islam and its outcomes
* Hijrath

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1867
 Madina Life
* Socio-Political activities
* Defensive wars and Peace Agreements
* Completion of Islam
 Position of Sahabas and their contribution towards
Islam
 History and Political contribution of Kulafa
Urrashidoon
 Period of rule by Umaiya and Abbasiya
 History of Baitul Mukaddas
 History and contributions of Sri Lankan Muslims
 Contribution of Muslims to Scientific Knowledge
 History relating to the following personalities :–
* Imam Buhari (Rah)
* Imam Shafi (Rah)
* Imam Gassali (Rah)
* Imam Abdul Cader Jeelani (Rah)
* Imam Saduli (Rah)
FOURTH PAPER
4. Aklaq (Islamic Values)
4.1 View point of Islam on Aklaq
* Understanding Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Iman and Aqhlaq
* Relationship between Aqhlaq and Ibadath
* Purity of mind (Ikhlas)
4.2 Taqwa
* Wara'u and Suhud
* Murakaba, Muhasafa
* Shawq
4.3 Charity
* Dedication
* Gratitude
* Patience, Tolerance, accomodating, pardoning
* Politeness
* Appreciation of time
* Safeguarding organs in the body : mouth, eye, ear and sex
organs
* Respecting others
* Justice and honesty
* Important moral values visible among youth
* Harmonious living with people of other faiths
4.4 Islamic Jurisprudence
ANNEXURE II
Name of towns and their town Numbers where Examination
Centres will be Established :
Town Town District
No. No.
Colombo District 01
Colombo (Central) 01
Bambalapitiya 02
Gampaha District 02
Thihariya 03
Mabola 04
Malwana 05
Negombo 06
Kal-Eliya 07
Kalutara District 03
Panadura 08
Kalutara 09
Aluthgama 10
Galle District 04
Galle 11
Matara District 05
Weligama 12
Matara 13
Hambantota District 06
Hambantota 14
Kegalle District 07
Mawanella 15
Warakapola 16
Kannattota 17
Kurunegala District 08
Kuliyapitiya 18
Kurunegala 19
Melsiripura 20
Polgahawela 21
Kekunagolla 22
Puttalam District 09
Nuraichcholai 23
Puttalam 24
Chilaw 25
Anuradhapura District 10
Anuradhapura 26
Kekirawa 27
Galenbindunuwewa 28
Polonnaruwa District 11
Kaduruwela 29

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'09'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.09.2015
1868
Matale District 12
Matale 30
Kandy District 13
Kandy 31
Nawalapitiya 32
Deltota 33
Gelioya 34
Nuwara Eliya District 14
Nuwara Eliya 35
Ratnapura District 15
Eheliyagoda 36
Balangoda 37
Badulla District 16
Badulla 38
Welimada 39
Monaragala District 17
Bibila 40
Ampara District 18
Akkaraipattu 41
Pottuvil 42
Kalmunai 43
Sammanthurai 44
Irakkamam 45
Nintavur 46
Oluvil 47
Town Town District
No. No.
Batticaloa District 19
Kattankudy 48
Eravur 49
V alachchenai 50
Trincomalee District 20
Mutur 51
Kinniya 52
Trincomalee 53
Vavuniya District 21
Vavuniya 54
Mannar District 22
Mannar 55
Mullaitivue District 23
Mullaitivu 56
Kilinochchi District 24
Kilinochchi 57
Jaffna District 25
Jaffna 58
09-156
Town Town District
No. No.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.