

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1506
    Page
Post - Vacant … … …  1498
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"123 – 2019 uehs ui 10 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'05'10
No. 2,123 –  FRiday ,  may 10, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 31st may, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 17th may, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1495-B 81521- 5,403 (05/2019)


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1496
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1497
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1498
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
KaNdy  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
17th June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 05th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Application are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kandy Poojapitiya Post of Birth and death Registrar of Pallegampaha 
South No. 02 and marriages Registrar (Kandyan/
General) of  Harispattu division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Pasbage Korale Post of Birth and death Registrar and marriages 
Registrar of Pasbage Korale (Kandyan/General) 
division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kandy.
05–162

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1499
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
NuWaRa ELiya  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
17th June, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 05th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  Application 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Nuwara 
Eliya
Nuwara Eliya Post of Registrar of muslim marriages 
of thalawakele area in Nuwara Eliya 
district division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Nuwara 
Eliya.
05–164

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1500
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of birth and Death
 
diStRict oF aNuRadHaPuRa
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called for the post of Registrar of Birth and death in the divisions depicted in the Schedule 
hereunder.
01. applicant should be the residents within the boundaries of relevant Local Governments Limit/divisions limit 
depicted in the Schedule and further must be recognized by residents who possess considerable assets.
02. Both males and females could submit applications for this Post. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 and not more than 62 years of age.  
04. applicants must be capable of working in the secondary language to meet the requirement of the residents 
within the division and should have passed General Ordinary Level Examination G.C.E (O/L) minimum of six subjects with 
two credits including a credit pass for Sinhala/tamil Language (Relevant language for the Post), in not more two sittings or 
else should have passed any other equivalent examination. 
05.  more relevant information of this post could be obtained from the notices displayed at public places within 
the division such as District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats or Land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, 
Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the Schedule. 
06. applications could be obtained from relevant district Secretariats (Government agent) for Land and district 
Registries or divisional Secretariats.
07. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 10.06.2019 to reach to the address depicted in the 
Schedule. 
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on this 18th day of april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for 
which  Applications are 
called
Local Government/
Division Limit in which 
the applicants should 
residing permanent
Address to which 
Applications 
should be sent
anuradhapura Nuwaragam 
Palatha - East
Post of Births and deaths 
Registrar of anuradhapura 
teaching Hospital division
anuradhapura urban 
council
district Secretary/
additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, 
anuradhapura.
05–163

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1501
PARLIAmENT  Of  SRI  LANkA
Post of Receiving Officer
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of “Receiving Officer” on the Staff of the 
Secretary-General of Parliament. 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of Sri 
Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte" on or before may 24, 
2019. The “Post of Receiving Officer” should be indicated 
on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. (this information 
is also available on the website: www.parliament.lk)
1. Nature of Duties.– Receiving all food and beverages 
including vegetables, fruits, meat and fish obtained for the 
kitchen of Parliament verifying them according to the order, 
ensuring that the food and beverages received are of very 
high quality, documenting the details of the goods received 
properly and referring the relevant bills for payment.
2. Salary Scale. – according to the Schedule i of the 
management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
The monthly salary scale specified for this post is                                    
Rs. 32,330 – 3 x 380/10 x 445/4 x 660 – Rs. 40,560. the 
selected candidate will be placed initially at the monthly 
salary step of Rs. 28,990/- according to the schedule ii of 
the circular mentioned above. (the minimum initial gross 
monthly remuneration together with all the allowances will 
be approximately Rs. 60,500.00)
3.   educational/Higher   Educational/Professional Qualifica-
tions.– Should have passed the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level) Examination in not more than 
two sittings in six subjects with Credit Passes for Sinhala/ 
tamil and mathematics and an ordinary Pass for English 
Language ;
And
Should have obtained a Higher National diploma in 
Food t echnology or agricultural Production technology  
(NVQ Level 5 or 6 ) awarded by a recognized university 
or a technical college under the department of industrial 
Education and V ocational training or a Government School 
of agriculture. 
Note: applicants with experience serving as Receiving 
Officer/ Store Keeper/ Quality Controller/ Quality 
Assurance Officer at a star class hotel or a 
Government institution or an institution recognized 
by the Government where food and beverages are 
provided for daily consumption and applicants 
who can submit computer literacy certificates will 
be given preference at the interview.
4. Age Limit.– Should be not less than 25 years and not 
more than 40 years of age by the closing date for applications. 
(upper age limit will not be applicable for the applicants 
serving in the Public/ Provincial public service)
5.  Method of Recruitment.– through an interview
6. Terms and Conditions of Service :
  i. this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to policy decisions taken by the 
Government in future.  appointment will be 
made subject to a three-year (3) probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed in 
a permanent, pensionable post in the Public/ 
Provincial Public service is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of 
one year.
 ii. Selected candidate will be subject to the 
Financial and departmental Regulations 
applicable to the staff of the Secretary - General 
of Parliament.
 iii.  Selected candidate should contribute to 
the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and    
orphans’ Pension Fund from his/her salary with 
a percentage specified by the Government.
 iv. Selected candidate will be subject to a medical 
examination.
 v. a  Security clearance Report with respect to 
the selected candidates will be obtained prior to             
his / her appointment.
7. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications. Originals of 
the certificates should be produced, when called upon to do 
so.
 (a) Birth Certificate
 (b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications
 (c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications
 (d) Certificates of Experience

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1502
 8. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service or on the staff of the Secretary–General of the 
Parliament should send their applications through relevant 
Heads of departments / institutions.
9. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
10. applications received after the closing date or 
sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not 
sent through Heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments 
/institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected. 
 W. B. d. 
daSaNayake,
      Secretary-General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura Kotte.
may 10th, 2019.
PaRLiamENt oF SRi LaNKa
SpeCimeN appliCatioN Form
poSt oF  reCeiViNg oFFiCer
01.  (a)  Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (b)  Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :                     
––––––––––.
  (c) Full Name  (in block capitals) :- (mr./mrs./miss) 
:––––––––––.
 
02.  N. i. c. :-   
03.  (a)  Private address :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (b)  Official Address  :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-    
  (c)  Please indicate the address the admission to be 
posted :
  Private      Official 
04. (a)  date of Birth:-  
  y ear :–––––––– month :––––––––  date :––––––– 
  (A copy of the Birth Certificate should be attached) 
  (b)  age as at the closing date of applications:-  
  y ears :––––––– months :–––––––  days :––––––– 
05.  civil Status :-  (married/ unmarried) :––––––––––.
06.  Gender :-  (male/ Female) :––––––––––.
07.  State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :-  (yes/No)
      :––––––––––.
08. Education Qualifications :- (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached)
examination Subjects Pass Year
G. c. E. (o/L)
Sinhala/ tamil
mathematics
English
09. Higher Educational/Professional Qualifications :- (Copies 
of the certificates should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Experience : (Copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
11.  details of the Present Employment :
(a) Name and address of the institution :––––––––––.
(b) Present Post :––––––––––.
(c) date of First appointment :––––––––––.
(d) monthly Basic Salary :––––––––––.
(e) allowances :––––––––––.
(f) Gross Salary :––––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law? (yes/No) :––––––––––.
 if yes, give details :––––––––––.
13. Have you served under the Government before? (y es/
No) :––––––––––. 
 if yes, give details :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1503
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.        
                                                 
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of mr. / mrs./
miss ........................... holding the post of ............................
in this institution. I certify that he/she has been confirmed 
in the post. His/Her work and conduct are satisfactory and 
that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action 
and there is no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can 
be released/cannot be released from the service if selected 
for this post.   
           
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/institution. 
 (Official Stamp) 
date :––––––––––.
05–337/1
––––––––––––––––––––
PARLIAmENT Of SRI LANkA
Post of bungalow manager 
(Speaker’s Residence)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
who are physically sound and of excellent moral character 
for the post of “bungalow manager” (Speaker’s Residence) 
on the Staff of the Secretary-General of Parliament. 
applications prepared in accordance with the specimen 
given below should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the “Secretary-General of Parliament, Parliament of 
Sri Lanka, Sri Jayewardenepura kotte" on or before 
may 24, 2019. the “Post of Bungalow manager (Speaker’s 
Residence)” should be indicated on the top left-hand corner 
of the envelope. (this information is also available on the 
website: www.parliament.lk)
1. Nature of the Duties.– Provision of the required 
facilities to the Hon. Speaker, protection of all properties 
including buildings and furniture belonging to the official 
residence, proper maintenance of inventory books and 
documents, proper maintenance of properties, formally 
welcoming the guests visiting the official residence of the 
Hon. Speaker and the provision of services required by 
them, ensuring safety of the food served, procuring items 
required for the activities of the official residence as required 
and proper management thereof, organizing ceremonies and 
parties hosted at the official residence,  administration of 
employees.
2. Salary Scale.– according to the Schedule i of the 
management Services circular 06/2016 dated 07.11.2016, 
monthly salary scale specified for this post is Rs. 43,565 –             
9 x 755 / 6 x 930 – Rs. 55,940/-  the selected candidate will 
be placed initially at the monthly salary step of Rs. 39,064. 
according to the schedule ii of the circular mentioned 
above. (the minimum initial gross monthly remuneration 
together with all the allowances will be approximately               
Rs. 77,000.00)
3. Educational/Higher Educational/Professional Qualifications 
and experience :
a degree on Hotel management/ tourism and 
Hospitality management/ Hotel Housekeeping 
from a recognized university or a degree awarding 
institute recognized by the university Grants 
commission; 
or
completion of the four year management diploma in 
Hotel and catering operations conducted by the Sri 
Lanka institute of tourism and Hotel management 
and
Passing of six (06) subjects at the General Certificate 
of Education (ordinary Level) in not more than 
two sittings with credit passes for Sinhala/t amil, 
mathematics and English 
and
Experience of not less than one year at the supervisory 
level in a star class hotel/ Government institution 
after the completion of the above qualifications. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1504
 4.  Age Limit.– Should be not less than 30 years and 
not more than 45 years of age by the closing date for 
applications. (upper age limit will not be applicable for the 
applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public Service)
5.  Method of Recruitment.– through an interview
6. Accommodation.– the Bungalow manager should 
reside at the quarters reserved for him at the Official 
Resident of Hon. Speaker. 
7.  Terms and Conditions of Service :
 (i) this post is permanent. Pension entitlement 
pertaining to this post will be determined 
according to policy decisions taken by the 
Government in future.  appointment will be 
made subject to a three-year (3) probation 
period. If a person who has been confirmed in 
a permanent, pensionable post in the Public/ 
Provincial Public service is selected, he / she 
will be appointed subject to an acting period of 
one year.
 (ii) Selected candidate will be subject to the 
Financial and departmental Regulations 
applicable to the staff of the Secretary - General 
of Parliament.
 (iii)  Selected candidate should contribute to 
the Widows’ and orphans’/Widowers’ and 
orphans’ Pension Fund from his/her salary with 
a percentage specified by the Government.
 (iv) Selected candidate will be subject to a medical 
examination.
 (v) a  Security clearance Report with respect to the 
selected candidate will be obtained prior to his / 
her appointment.
 (vi) the post of ‘Bungalow manager’ is considered 
as a post belonging to the Bungalow cadre and 
he/she should be prepared to provide service 
round-the-clock, if required.
  
 (vii) the applicant selected for the post of ‘Bungalow 
manager’ should offer a surety in cash and/ or 
bond as directed by the Secretary-General of 
Parliament.  
8. applicants should attach the copies of the following 
certificates (not originals) to their applications. originals of 
the certificates should be produced, when called upon to do 
so :
 (a) Birth Certificate
 (b) Certificates of Educational Qualifications
 (c) Certificates of Professional Qualifications
 (d) Certificates of Experience
9. applicants serving in the Public/ Provincial Public 
Service or on the staff of the Secretary–General of the 
Parliament should send their applications through relevant 
Heads of departments / institutions.
10. Canvassing in any form will be a disqualification.
11. applications received after the closing date or 
sent without copies of the relevant certificates or not 
sent through Heads of departments / institutions will be 
rejected. Applications sent through Heads of Departments 
/institutions but received after the closing date, and 
applications not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will also be rejected. 
  W. B. d. 
daSaNayake,
      Secretary-General of Parliament.
Parliament of Sri Lanka,
Sri Jayewardenepura - Kotte,
10th may, 2019.
PaRLiamENt oF SRi LaNKa
SpeCimeN appliCatioN Form
poSt oF  BuNgalow maNager (Speaker'S reSideNCe)
01.  (a)  Name with initials (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 (b)  Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/t amil) :                     
––––––––––.
  (c) Full Name  (in block capitals) :- (mr./mrs./miss) 
:––––––––––.
 
02.  N. i. c. :-   

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1505
03.  (a)  Private address :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-  
  (b)  Official Address  :––––––––––.
  t elephone Number :-    
  (c)  Please indicate the address the admission to be 
posted :
  Private      Official 
04. (a)  date of Birth:-  
  y ear :–––––––– month :––––––––  date :–––––––.
  (A copy of the birth certificate should be attached) 
  (b)  age as at the closing date of applications:-  
  y ears :–––––––  months :–––––––  days :–––––––. 
05.  civil Status :-  (married/ unmarried) :––––––––––.
06.  Gender :-  (male/ Female) :––––––––––.
07.  State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :-  (yes/No)
      :––––––––––.
08. Education Qualifications :- (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached)
examination Subjects Pass Year
G. c. E.
(o/L)
Sinhala/ tamil
mathermatics
English
09. Higher Educational/Professional Qualifications :- (Copies 
of the certificates should be attached) :––––––––––.
10. Experience :- (Copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
11.  details of the Present Employment :
(a) Name and address of the institution :––––––––––.
(b) Present Post :––––––––––.
(c) Date of first Appointment :––––––––––.
(d) monthly basic Salary :––––––––––.
(e) allowances :––––––––––.
(f) Gross Salary :––––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted for a criminal offence by a 
court of Law? (yes/No) :––––––––––.
 if yes, give details :––––––––––.
13. Have you served under the Government before? (y es/
No) :––––––––––. 
 if yes, give details :––––––––––.
i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and correct. i am also aware that, 
I am liable to be disqualified for this post if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
selection, or to be dismissed without any compensation if 
such detection is made after appointment. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.        
                                                 
Certification of Head of Department/Institution
(only for applicants serving in the Public Service/
Provincial Public Service)
Secretary General of Parliament, 
i recommend and forward the application of mr. / mrs./miss 
........................... holding the post of .................................. 
in this Institution. I certify that he/she has been confirmed 
in the post, his/her work and conduct are satisfactory and 
he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary action and 
there is no intention to make such inquiry. He/she can be 
released/cannot be released from the service if selected for 
this post.   
           
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of department/institution. 
 (Official Stamp) 
date :––––––––––.
05–337/2

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1506
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
LEGAL  DRAfTSmAN'S  DEPARTmENT
First Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Translators Grade II in the Legal Draftsman’s 
Department - 2019
01. it  is hereby notified that the first efficiency bar 
examination  for   translators   of    the Legal draftsman’s                                                                                                                                      
department will be held by the department 
of Examinations, Sri Lanka in august 2019 in 
colombo in accordance with the provisions of the 
relevant approved scheme of recruitment for translators of 
the Legal draftsman’s department.  
02.  (i) this examination will be held by the commissioner 
General of Examinations of the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, and the candidates are 
subject to rules stipulated by him with regard to 
the holding of the examination and the release of 
results. the decision of the commissioner General 
of Examinations with regard to the holding of the 
examination and the release of results shall be 
final.
 (ii) the rules stipulated for candidates have been 
printed separately in the Gazette notification. If 
these rules are violated by any candidate, they 
shall be liable to a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
03. examination fees.– the candidates can sit for the 
subjects prescribed for the examination in one occasion or 
separately. No fees will be charged from candidates sitting 
for the entire examination or for any single subject for the 
first time. Where the candidate sits for this examination on 
any subsequent occasion, an examination fee of Rs.250/- will 
be charged for a single subject and Rs.500/- will be charged 
for the entire examination. the examination fees shall be 
paid to any post office or sub post office in the island to the 
credit of Revenue Head 20- 03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations and the receipt issued shall be 
affixed at the appropriate place in the application form. 
(it may be useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt with 
the candidate.) the examination fees paid will neither be 
refunded nor be transferred for any other examination under 
any circumstance.
04. Applications.– the application shall be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application form annexed 
hereto. the application shall be prepared using both sides 
of an a4 size paper and the headings 01 to 05 shall be on 
the first page and the balance portion shall be taken to be 
the second page. in applications prepared in the Sinhala 
language, the name of the examination appearing in the 
caption of the application shall be in English in addition to 
Sinhala. Similarly, in the applications prepared in the tamil 
language, the name of the examination appearing in the 
caption of the application shall be in English in addition to 
Tamil. The application form may be typed but it shall be filled 
correctly and legibly in the handwriting of the applicant. the 
applications prepared accordingly by the applicants shall 
be sent through the Head of the department, by registered 
post to the "commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations (Establishment and Foreign Examinations) 
Branch, department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, P.o. Box 
1503, colombo", to be reached before 10.06.2019. When 
the application is sent, the name of the examination shall 
be mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
incomplete applications and applications received after 
the closing date shall not be accepted. the applicant shall 
ensure that the completed application is in conformity with 
the specimen application form and the applications which 
are not in conformity with the specimen application form 
will be rejected. (It will be useful to retain a photocopy of 
the completed application with the applicant.)
05. Identity of the applicant.– Every applicant shall 
prove his identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the 
examination hall in respect of every subject he/she appears 
at such examination hall. For such purpose any one of the 
following documents will be accepted: -
 (i) National identity card.
 (ii) a valid Passport.
 (iii) a valid driving License.
With regard to the candidature of the applicants who 
are unable to submit one of the aforesaid documents, the 
decision of the commissioner-General of Examinations 
shall be final.
06. the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue admission cards together with a copy of the time table 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1507
to the applicants who have submitted applications on the presumption that only those who have qualifications specified 
in the Gazette notification have applied. Soon after the admission cards are issued to the applicants, the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, will publish a notification in the newspapers to that effect. If there are applicants who did not 
receive admission cards after 2 or 3 days of the publication of the said notification, they shall inform the Department of 
Examinations via the telephone numbers given in the notification. When doing so the applicant shall mention the applicant’s 
full name, address, National identity card number and the name of the examination. When making such inquiry it is useful 
that the applicant be ready with a copy of the application which was retained with the applicant, the copy of the receipt 
received when making the payment of fees and a copy of the registered article receipt. if the applicant is from outside 
colombo, it will be useful to make inquiries through a request letter referred to the department of Examinations via fax, 
stating the candidates fax number and other information given above, enabling him to receive a copy of the admission card 
through fax.
07. the signature of the applicant in the application and in the admission card for the examination shall be attested by the 
Head of the Department or any officer authorized by him. An applicant shall sit for the examination in the hall specified for 
him/her under the index number given to him/her and the admission card in which his/her signature is attested by a specified 
officer shall be handed over to the supervisor of the examination on the date of the examination. An applicant who does not 
submit the admission card will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
08. the post held by the applicant and place of work at the time of making the application is relevant to all matters relating 
to the examination and any changes in respect thereof after sending the application will not be taken into consideration.
09. the Head of the department must approve duty leave for applicants, who have received admission cards issued by 
the commissioner-General of Examinations, enabling them to sit for the examination. No travelling expenses shall be paid.
10. This examination shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media only. If the applicant has joined public service 
through a competitive examination he/she shall sit for the examination in the medium in which he/she sat for the said 
competitive examination and any applicant who has joined public service without sitting for a competitive examination, 
shall sit for this examination in the medium in which he/she sat for the examination through which he/she got qualified to 
enter the public service. The applicant shall sit for all subjects of the examination in one medium. An applicant will not be 
later permitted to change the medium mentioned in his application.
11. examination Procedure :
 1.  Name of the examination: 1
st Efficiency Bar Examination for Translators Grade II (English /Sinhala and English/
tamil) in the Legal draftsman’s department -2019
 2.  Particulars of the examination:
Question paper Time Total Marks Pass mark
(1) Proficiency in translation 02 hours 100 40%
(2)  Basic knowledge in Establishment and 
Procedure code and Financial Regulations 02 hours 100 40%
 3. the authority conducting the examination:
  Public Service Commission/ an officer authorised by the Public Service Commission
 4. the number of times the examination is held: at least once a year

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1508
 5. Syllabus for the examination:
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
01. Proficiency in translation a written examination.
Syllabus
1. translation of a part of an act of Parliament from English Language to 
Sinhala/tamil.
2. comparison of a part of an act in English language with an incorrect 
Sinhala/tamil translation thereof and revision of the said Sinhala/ tamil 
translation in line with the English version.
3. translation of certain legal terms/words from English language to Sinhala/
tamil with words which are currently used in acts of Parliament.
4. correction of certain grammatically incorrect Sinhala/tamil sentences.
5. correction of certain words with incorrect spelling by inserting the 
correct spelling in the appropriate place, in order to assess the candidate’s 
prudence in respect of spelling in Sinhala language. (this paragraph shall 
also apply to officers who sit for this examination in Tamil language.)
2. Basic knowledge in Establishment and 
Procedure code and Financial
a written examination.
Regulations Syllabus
1. chapter Vi, Vii, Viii, Xii, XiV , XXiV , XXVii, XXViii, XXXi of volume i of the 
Establishment code
2. Procedural rules of the Public Service commission
3. chapter iV , V , Vi, iX of Financial Regulations
Note.
 * An applicant can sit for the above subjects separately.
 *  The failure to pass the above examination within the specified period will result in deferment of the increment.
12. Issuing of an admission card to an applicant shall not be considered as he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
be eligible to sit for the examination.
13. In respect of any matter not specified in this gazette notification the decision of the Legal Draftsman shall be 
final.
14. If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil versions of this notification, the Sinhala notification 
shall prevail.
Legal draftsman,
Legal draftsman’s department, 
colombo 12.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1509
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
FirSt eFFiCieNCy Bar examiNatioN For traNSlatorS grade ii iN the legal draFtSmaN’S departmeNt-2019
 For office use only
the medium in which the candidate intends to sit for the examination:
Sinhala  - 2  
tamil  - 3  
English  - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01 1.1  Name in full (in English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
  Example (HERatH mudiyaNSELaGE SamaN KumaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name giving the last name first and the first letters of the other names thereafter (in English capitals letters) :  
–––––––––––––.
  (Example : GuNaWaRdaNa H.m.S.K)
 1.3 Name in Full :–––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
02 2.1  Name and address of Office/Department/Institution :–––––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters)
  (admission card will be posted to this address)
 2.2 Name and address of Office/Department /Institution :–––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 Private address :–––––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
03 . National identity card No.:
04 . male/Female:
 4.1 male -0        Female - 1  (insert the relevant number in the cage)
 4.2 t elephone No.: mobile
05. Subject/Subjects which you sit for the examination this year:
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
06.  date of Birth : y ear :  month : date :
07. Present Post :
 7.1 Post  :–––––––––––––.
 7.2 Number of the appointment letter  :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1510
08 8.1  Do you sit for this examination for the first time?  :–––––––––––––. 
 8.2 If this is not the first time that you sit for this examination, the amount of examination fees paid  :–––––––––––––.
 8.3 Receipt Number  :–––––––––––––.
 8.4 date  :–––––––––––––.
 
Affix the receipt here (only if relevant). (It may be useful to 
have a photocopy of the receipt with you)
i state that the details given above are correct and that i am entitled to sit this examination in the above medium 
and I have paid the examination fee of Rs. .............................. and the receipt is affixed hereto. Further, I state that I agree 
to the rules imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the holding of the examination, and issuing 
of the results.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
The applicant shall place his signature before the Head of the Department or any officer authorized to sign on behalf 
of the Head of the department.
Attestation of the Signature :
i do hereby state that mr./mrs./miss ........................................................is an officer of my Department who is 
known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature before me and has affixed the receipt obtained on payment of 
the prescribed examination fee.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of attesting officer.
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
(Confirm by placing official seal)
Certificate of the Head of the Department : 
i certify that, 
 1. i perused the details given in this application; and
 2. the officer concerned is eligible to sit for this examination.
  –––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Head of the Department and Official Seal. 
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––. 
address  :–––––––––––––.
date  :–––––––––––––.
05–366

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1511
mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT AND 
vOCATIONAL TRAINING 
National Apprentice & Industrial Training 
Authority
iNStitutE oF ENGiNEERiNG 
tEcHNoLoGy - KatuNayaKE                      
REcRuitmENt oF SPEciaL aPPRENticES iN 
ENGiNEERiNG FoR NatioNaL diPLoma iN 
ENGiNEERiNG SciENcES (NdES) 
couRSE - 2019 BatcH
aPPLicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to 
recruit Special apprentices in Engineering 2019 batch for 
the above course of studies at the institute of Engineering 
technology (iEt), Katunayake.
1. Eligibility :
 1.1 Educational Qualifications for entry:
  Candidates with qualifications mentioned below 
are eligible to apply.
  Passes at the GcE (a/L) in combined mathematics, 
Physics & chemistry in one sitting.
  For all courses, candidates should have obtained 
a credit pass for English at the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in not more than three attempts.
 1.2 Age: Between 18 and 25 years as on 31.12.2019.
N.B. : Applicants below 20 years of age on 
31.12.2019 will be given Preference for 
admission to the marine Engineering.
2. Selection Criteria :
 2.1 all applicants who have the minimum entry 
qualifications as stated in para 1.1 and within the 
age limit mentioned in para 1.2 above, would be 
eligible. Selections will be done as given below.
 2.2  those candidates who are eligible will be required 
to sit for a written aptitude test in the English 
medium. (Eligible candidates will be informed in 
advance)
 2.3  Limited number of applicants will be called for 
an interview depending on the merit order of the 
written test.
 2.4  Applicants are finally selected, based on the 
written test marks and the interview marks.
 2.5  Those who are selected for the Course will 
have to appear for a medical test at their own 
expenses before the registration. 
  (Those who are selected for marine Engineering 
Course will have to appear again for a special 
medical test at their own expenses after the 
registration). 
3. Application procedure :
 3.1 all applicants should pay 750/= as an examination 
fee when they forward their applications. (this 
amount is considered as non - refundable.)
 3.2 the Pay-in-Slip needs to be duly perfected with 
the following:
 (i) branch Code and Account No: 276-1-001-
8-6351396.
 (ii) credit instruction: to the credit of National 
apprentice & industrial training authority 
collection account No. 276-1-001-8-
6351396 at People’s bank, katunayake.
 (iii) Name & the address of the applicant.
  this payment can be made to the People’s 
Bank branch any where in the country.
 3.3 Applications & additional information can be 
obtained from IET web site “www.iet.edu.lk”
 3.4 Duly filled application forms, should be sent 
under registered cover to reach the Director / 
Principal, Institute of Engineering Technology, 
Temple Road, katunayake along with the Pay-
In-Slip duly signed by an Authorized officer 
of the Bank, on or before 21st June, 2019 
“Recruitment of Special Apprentices – 2019” 
should be mentioned in the left hand corner of 
the envelope. Late applications or applications 
forwarded by hand will not be accepted.
 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1512
 3.5 those who have followed or are following 
diploma or degree level full time courses of 
studies in a Government technical institute or 
university are not eligible to apply.
 3.6 Receipt of the applications will not be 
acknowledged. 
 3.7 Hard copy of the applications are available at 
iEt – Katunayake only.
4.   Courses conducted in the IET are as follows:
 4.1 Civil Engineering Sector
 1. civil - Building & Structural Engineering.  
 2. civil - Highway & Railway Engineering.
 3. civil - Water & Environmental Engineering.
 4.2 Electrical Engineering Sector & 
Communication  
 4. Electrical - Electronics & communication 
Engineering.
 5. Electrical - Electrical Power Engineering. 
 4.3 mechanical Engineering Sector 
 6. mechanical - automotive Engineering
 7. mechanical - mechanical General Engineering
 8. mechanical - marine Engineering.
●  “The Quality Management System of Marine 
Engineering Course  of IET is certified for 
iSo 9001:2015 quality management System.
●  In respect of Marine Engineering course, 
the institute is engaged in providing 
academic instructions and industrial  
training Programmes to meet the mandatory 
requirements for  knowledge, understanding 
and proficiency in Marine  Engineering at 
the operational level related with StcW 95, 
including its amendments and model course 
7.04 of  international maritime organization 
(imo) coverage.
5. Duration & Course Schedule:
this is a four-year course, where the 18 month 
academic instruction Programme is sandwiched with 
the 30 month industrial training as given below.
 
Basic instruction Programme at iEt -  06 months
Basic industrial training in industry -  12 months
General instruction Programme at iEt -  06 months
General industrial training in -  12 months
 industry
Specialized instruction Programme -  06 months
 at iEt
Specialized industrial training in -  06 months
 industry
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical 
Instructions & Laboratory Practicals conducted at 
Institute of Engineering Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at 
recognized Industrial Establishments.
An English course will be conducted at the beginning 
of the course. Participation in this programme 
is compulsory for all selected apprentices for the 
English course.
6.  medium of Instruction:   English. 
7.  Contract of Apprenticeship
 7.1  Each selected candidate is required to enter 
into a contract with the training establishment, 
which consists of mutual obligations on both the 
training establishment and the apprentice. 
  
 7.2 there is no guarantee of employment at the end 
of the training period.
 7.3 all the students registered for the above courses, 
should maintain a minimum requirement of 
attendance specified by the Institute for each 
subject during the course period. Those who fail 
to meet this requirement are not allowed to sit for 
the examinations and evaluations and they have 
to leave the course.  
8. Registration of Apprenticeship:
8.1 at the time of registration, students should pay a 
sum of Rs. 5000/-, as a refundable deposit. It will 
be refunded only at the successfully completion 
of the course. 
 all Selected applicants will have to make a non 
refundable payment of Rs. 2,500/- including  

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1513
Rs. 500/- as a registration fee and Rs. 2000/- for 
library fund of iEt and stationery activities of the 
students.              
   
8.2 Sumurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the 
refundable deposit, on submission of original 
Sumurdhi card with a certified letter from Grama 
Niladari approved by divisional Secretary.
 9.  Award of Certificates:
  National Diploma in Engineering Sciences Certificate 
will be awarded on successful completion of all 
examinations, evaluations and on clearance of all 
obligations.
 10.   the institute of Engineering technology will not be 
responsible for any delay  or loss of applications in the 
mail. therefore, the candidates are requested to post 
their applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
 NaSeer ahamed (eng.),
 chairman,
 National apprentice & 
 industrial training authority.
No. 971, Sri Jayewardenepura mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
05–242
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of fOREIGN AffAIRS
Competitive Examination for filling vacancies in 
the Public management Assistants’ Service Cadre 
in Sri Lanka missions Abroad – 2018(2019)
aPPLicatioNS are hereby invited for the competitive 
examination conducted by the commissioner-General 
of Examinations, to be held in colombo in July 2019 on 
behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to fill vacancies 
in the home-based Public management assistants’ cadre 
in Sri Lanka Missions abroad, from eligible officers of the 
Public management assistants’ Service, Provincial Public 
management assistants’ Service and Local Government 
Public management assistants’ Service.
02. eligibility: applicants from the Public management 
assistants’ Service/ Provincial Public management 
assistants’ Service/ Local Government Public management 
Assistants’ Service (Hereafter referred to as the “Service”) 
should meet the following eligibility criteria:
 (a) Should be an officer in the Class I or Class II 
belonging to the service,
Or
 (b) Should be an officer in the Class III belonging to 
the service with a minimum of 5 years’ experience 
on the date of application. 
Note: Officers in other Management Assistant 
Services, not belonging to the above mentioned 
services, are not eligible to apply.
 (c) the post and the workplace of the applicant at 
the time of applying for the examination will 
be applicable with regard to all aspects of the 
examination. after submitting the application, any 
changes thereto shall not be considered.
 (d) age should be less than 57 years of age on the 
closing date of applications.  (accordingly only 
those who were born after 07.06. 1962 are eligible 
to apply)
 (e) Should have earned on the due date, all the 
annual increments, falling within the five years 
immediately preceding the date of application. 
 (f) Should not have been subjected to any form of 
disciplinary punishment, excluding a warning.
 (g) Should not be an officer presently attached to a Sri 
Lanka mission abroad.
Note: 
 (i)  an applicant who is eligible at the time of 
submitting his/her application, is   subsequently 
promoted to a class/Grade higher than class i of 
the Services or appointed to a post in any other 
service, will not be eligible to fill a vacancy in 
the Home-Based Public management assistants’ 
cadre at Sri Lanka missions abroad. it is the 
responsibility of applicants to promptly inform 
the Secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs in the 
event of any change in his/her official status that 
might have an impact on his/her eligibility under 
the above (a) and (b).

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1514
 (ii)  Preference will be given to officers with experience in accounts and administrative work and have a good 
working knowledge of English. Working knowledge in other foreign languages will be considered as an added 
qualification.
3. Method of Selection: Selection will be made on the basis of the written examination conducted by the commissioner-
General of Examinations, and the practical assessment and viva voce  conducted by Secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs. 
all examinations will be held in colombo.
3.1. Written examination: - the written examination will consist of the following papers :
  Paper Duration Marks 
 Financial Systems 2 hours 100
 Establishments Code & Office Procedures 2 hours 100
 English Language 2 hours 100
 Practical assessment  80 min.   60
Note:  1. Financial Systems – This question paper which will consist of objective and subject type questions, is set to 
test the candidate’s practical knowledge of financial operations and accounting procedures of a Government 
institution. all questions should be answered.
 2. Establishments Code and Office Procedures – Objective and structured type questions will be included in this 
paper, to test the candidate’s practical knowledge of establishments and office procedures of a Government 
institution. all questions should be answered.
 3. english Language – this question paper is designed to test the candidate’s knowledge in comprehension and 
written communication. all questions should be answered.
 3.  Practical Assessment– Computer based practical assessment on financial accounts, proficiency in English 
language, administrative procedures and it skills.
 eg:  t esting on accounting procedures and ciGaS 
       t ender procedures and procurement
       MS Office application
       Business communication: Letter/ memo writing, Report Writing 
  (Each of the 4 questions will carry 15 marks. total marks will be 60 (15 x 4))
3.2 Viva Voce:
 3.2.1 the Viva Voce will carry 40 marks and will be conducted by a Board appointed by the Secretary, ministry 
of Foreign affairs.
 3.2.2 the elaborated marking scheme for the Viva- voce which will be conducted by the ministry is appended 
below :
No. Marking criteria Marks 
breakdown
Maximum 
marks
1 Additional Education Qualifications :
 i. degree with 1 st class
 ii. degree with 2 nd class upper division
 iii. degree with 2 rd class Lower division
 iV . degree with an ordinary pass                                               
15
12
10
08
15

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1515
No. Marking criteria Marks 
breakdown
Maximum 
marks
2 Other/ Professional Qualification directly relevant to the function of 
the ministry of Foreign affairs (international relations, Law, English or 
other foreign languages, it, Human Resources management, marketing 
& Business Studies, cim, cima, aat, etc.)
 i. Post Graduate diploma
 ii. diploma
 III. Certificate Level
 IV . Any qualification over six months with regard to the English 
language proficiency or any other foreign language from a recognized 
university, technical college or from a government registered institutions 
or similar qualifications
10
08
06
04
10
3 Behavioral competencies and Fluency in English Language
 i. communication Skills & English Language Fluency
 ii. Knowledge on international affairs
 iii. cultural Sensitivity
 iV . Positive attitude 
 V . Personality & Grooming
05
03
03
03
01
15
total 40
 3.2.3 those candidates who have obtained 40% marks or above in each paper with a total aggregate of 150 
or above at the written examination will be eligible to be called for practical assessment and viva voce. 
However, in the event of the unavailability of a sufficient number of qualified candidates according to the 
above cut-off mark, the Secretary to the ministry of Foreign affairs reserves the right to decide the cut-
off mark. the candidates who are eligible to sit for the practical assessment and viva voce must obtain 
minimum 40% marks for practical assessment (60×40% = 24) and viva voce (40×40% = 16) to be selected 
for the final list. 
 3.2.4 The list of applicants who have qualified for the Practical Assessment and the viva voce as per paragraph 
3.2.3 prepared in the alphabetical order will be sent to the Secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
after receiving the Practical assessment and viva voce marks, the result sheet prepared on the basis of merit order of total 
aggregate marks obtained by the applicants, will be sent to the Secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
additionally, examination results will be sent directly to all applicants who appeared for the Examination.
4.  Terms of engagement :
 4.1 After issuing the letters of appointment to selected officers, in the event of an appointee failing to assume duties 
at the place of work to which he/she is attached within three months from the due date, the appointment will be 
deemed as cancelled and any appeals made in that connection will not be entertained. 
 4.2 Candidates after being selected to fill the vacancies will be required to serve initially at the Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs in Colombo for a specified period of one year, prior to being posted to a Sri Lanka Mission abroad. 
if the work and conduct of a candidate during this initial period of service at the ministry are found to be 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1516
unsatisfactory, his/her selection is liable to be 
cancelled. 
 
 4.3  Posting will be decided on the basis of 
requirements of the respective missions and the 
officer’s suitability and competence (in foreign 
language etc.).  in deciding such posting, there 
is no obligation on the part of the ministry 
to consider the officer’s personal needs and 
grievances (children’s education etc.) and the 
officer should report for duty at the Mission 
assigned by the ministry, irrespective of their 
personal preferences.
     4.4  An officer selected on being posted to a Sri 
Lanka mission abroad, is normally required 
to serve abroad for a period of three years 
on the terms and conditions stipulated by the 
Secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs and 
to enter into an agreement to that effect. on 
completion of their tour of duty, the officer 
should return to Sri Lanka. 
 4.5  The selected officers while serving at a Sri 
Lanka mission abroad, will continue to receive 
their substantive salaries paid in colombo.  in 
addition, the officer will be paid an overseas 
allowance during their period of service 
abroad.
 4.6  Once an officer is selected, the cost of return 
air passage from Sri Lanka to the country of 
posting, accommodation and other facilities 
during his/her service abroad, in respect of 
the selected officer, his/her spouse and for a 
maximum of two children who are below 21 
years of age and dependent on the officer only, 
will be met by the Government as determined 
by the Secretary/Foreign affairs. 
5. Method of application : 
 5.1 the application forms should be prepared on 
an a4 size paper as per the specimen appended 
to this notification, containing items from 1.0 – 
5.2 on the first page and the rest on the other 
pages. applications which are not in conformity 
with the specimen and those not providing the 
required details will be rejected without any 
notice. applicants are advised to keep copies of 
their applications.
 5.2 on the applications in Sinhala and tamil, the 
name of the examination should be clearly 
indicated in English, in addition to Sinhala or 
tamil.
 5.3 applications should be forwarded through 
the respective Heads of department with 
the recommendation and endorsement from 
Head of department on the eligibility of the 
applicant for service in missions abroad and the 
correctness of details given in the application. 
the Head of department should also state 
whether the applicant, if selected, can be 
released immediately from the present post. 
 5.4 applications should be forwarded by registered 
post to reach the “commissioner-General of 
Examinations, organization (institutional and 
Foreign Examinations) branch, department 
of Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo” 
on or before 07
th June 2019 and should be 
marked “competitive Examination for Public 
management assistants in Sri Lanka missions 
Abroad 2018(2019)” on the top left hand corner 
of the envelope.
  
6. examination Fees: the examination fee of Rs. 600/- 
should be paid at any Post Office / Sub Post Offices or 
district/divisional Secretariat Offices in Sri Lanka to the 
credit of Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations, and the receipt obtained should 
be pasted in the relevant cage on the application. details 
of the receipt such as the number, the office money is paid 
to, date and the amount paid, should be indicated in the 
relevant spaces.  Receipt obtained by paying examination 
fees through any other mode of postal/money orders or 
stamps will not be accepted.  it will be appropriate to keep 
a photocopy of the receipt. under no circumstances will the 
examination fees be refunded.
7. Incomplete applications will be rejected by the 
department of Examinations. No applications received after 
the closing date will be accepted.
8. Admission to sit for the examination:
 8.1  Receipt of applications will not be 
acknowledged.  
 8.2  the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all the applicants 
who are within the age limit specified in the 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1517
notification provided. As soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the prospective candidates, a 
notification will be published in the newspapers 
and the official website of Department 
of Examination, Sri Lanka to that effect. 
candidates who do not receive their admission 
cards within 02 or 03 days after the publication, 
should make inquiries from the organization 
(institutional and Foreign Examinations) branch 
of the department of Examinations. in making 
inquiries the candidates should state clearly the 
name of the examination applied for, full name 
of the applicant, National identity card number 
and the postal address. in the case of outstation 
candidates, it will be more advantageous to 
send a letter of request with a fax number which 
he/ she can receive his/ her admission card, 
making reference to the fax number given in the 
notification. In making such inquiries it will be 
beneficial for the applicant to keep with him/her 
a copy of the application, a copy of the receipt 
issued on payment of the examination fee and 
the receipt issued on sending the application by 
registered post to enable him/her to substantiate 
any information required by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 8.3 Signature of the applicant placed on the 
admission card as well as on the application 
should have been attested. candidate employed 
in an institution should get his/her signature 
attested by the Head of institution or any other 
officer authorized to sign on behalf such Head 
of institution. a candidate presenting himself/
herself for the examination must produce his/
her attested admission card to the Supervisor of 
the Examination centre.  
 8.4 a candidate must sit for the Examination at 
the Examination hall assigned to him/her. a 
set of rules to be observed by all candidates is 
published in the Gazette. the candidates are 
subjected to all rules and regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations. 
if such rules or regulations are violated, the 
candidate would have to face a penalty imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations.
  the decision of the commissioner General of 
Examinations will be final with regard to the 
conduct of examination and the issuance of 
results. 
 8.5 issuance of admission card to a candidate shall 
not be in any way treated as that candidate 
had satisfied all the qualifications for the 
examination. 
9. Medium of examination :
 9.1 the Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium. candidates will not 
be allowed to change the medium applied for, 
subsequently.
 9.2  a candidate is required to answer all question 
papers in one language only, except for the 
English Language paper.  
 
10.  Penalty for Furnishing False Information : 
 10.1  if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate 
are found to be false within his/her knowledge, 
or if he/she willfully suppressed any material 
fact, he/she will be liable for dismissal from 
the Public Service, and therefore, he/she will be 
ineligible to sit for the examination.
 10.2  if a candidate is found to be ineligible to sit for 
this examination at any stage prior to, during 
or after the examination, his/her candidature is 
liable to be rejected. 
11. Identity of Candidate : a candidate will be required 
to prove his/her identity at the Examination Hall to the 
satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject he/she offers.  
For this purpose, any of the following documents will be 
accepted:
 (a) National identity card 
 (b)  Valid Passport 
 (c)  Valid driving License 
12. decision of the Secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs 
will be the final with regard to recruitments.
13. In case of any divergence in the text of this notification 
published in Sinhala, tamil and English, the Sinhala text 
will prevail.
 raViNatha aryaSiNha,
 Secretary/ Foreign affairs.
ministry of Foreign affairs,
Republic Building,
colombo 01.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1518
SPEcimEN aPPLicatioN FoRm
appliCatioN For the CompetitiVe examiNatioN For FilliNg VaCaNCieS iN the puBliC maNagemeNt aSSiStaNtS’ SerViCe 
Cadre iN Sri laNka miSSioNS aBroad – 2018(2019)
part a
   
the service you belong to :
(Give the relevant number in the Box)
Public Management Assistants' Service - 1 For Office Use
Provincial Public management assistants' Service - 2
Local Government Public management assistants' Service - 3
medium in which the applicant wishes to sit for the examination 
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil  - 3
 English - 4 (Give the relevant number in the Box)
1.0 1.1 Name in Full (in block letters) :–––––––––––––.
  (eg: HERatH mudiyaNSELaGE SamaN KumaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with the Last Name First and initials of other Names at the End (in block letters) :–––––––––––––.
  (eg: GuNa WaRdHaNa H.m.S.K.)  
 1.3 Name in Full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.0 2.1  to which address admission cards should be sent: (in English block letters) :–––––––––––––.
 2.2  Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.
3.0 3.1  Sex:   male  - 0
   Female   - 1 (Give the relevant number in the Box)
 3.2 National identity card No. :                     
4.0  4.1  mobile No. :
 4.2  telephone No. :
5.0 5.1  date of Birth:          year  month  date   
 5.2  age as at the closing date of application :   years   months  days 
6.0  6.1  Official Address (In English block letters)  :–––––––––––––.
 6.2  telephone No.  :–––––––––––––.
7.0   7.1 Service: Public management assistants Service/Provincial Public management assistants Service /Local 
Government Public management assistants Service (delete whichever is inapplicable)   :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1519
 7.2  Date of first appointment to the Public Service/ Provincial Service/Local Government Service and Language 
medium. (delete whichever is inapplicable)  :–––––––––––––.
8.0 8.1  civil Status:  
  married  – 2
      Single   – 1           (Give the relevant number in the Box)
 8.2  if married, number of children :–––––––––––––.
   their dates of birth and ages :–––––––––––––.
9.0  if the spouse is employed, give details :–––––––––––––.
10.0  Educational Qualifications (with language medium) :–––––––––––––. 
11.0  date of Promotion to:
 11.1 class ii :–––––––––––––. 
 11.2 class i :–––––––––––––. 
 11.3 the class which the applicant is currently attached to and the date of appointment for the same :–––––––––––––. 
12.0   Present annual Salary: ………………
13.0   Experience (Give the number of years) 
 13.1 accounts  :–––––––––––––. 
 13.2 Establishment Procedures  :–––––––––––––. 
14.0  Proficiency:
 (a)  Sinhala Language                    
     (b)  tamil Language
 (c)  English Language
 (d) any other  Foreign  Language
15.0  ability:  
 15.1 t yping (Sinhala/tamil/English)  :–––––––––––––. 
 15.2 computer Literacy (Give details)  :–––––––––––––. 
16.0 if the applicant has previously served at any Sri Lanka mission abroad, give the names of the mission with dates  
:–––––––––––––. 
17.0 Any other qualifications  :–––––––––––––. 
18.0 The receipt issued by the Post Office/Sub Post Office on payment of examination fees should be affixed in the cage 
below. (retain a photocopy of the receipt) :
 1. Receipt No.  :–––––––––––––. 
 2. Post Office/ Sub Post Office  :–––––––––––––. 
 3. date  :–––––––––––––. 
 4. amount  :–––––––––––––. 
Reading Writing Speaking

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'10
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 10.05.2019
1520
19.0   Applicant’s Certificate:
i do hereby declare that i have earned all increments 
falling due in the five (5) years immediately preceding 07 th 
June 2019 and have not been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment.  i also declare that to the best of my knowledge 
the information furnished in this application is true and 
accurate. i am aware that if any  information is found to be 
incorrect or false, before, during or after the examination, 
the Secretary, ministry of Foreign affairs has the right to 
cancel my candidature/ or appointment. 
i also agree to be bound by the rules governing the 
examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if 
it is found that i am ineligible according to the regulations 
of this examination. 
I further declare that I will be subjected to the rules 
and regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations in relation to examination procedure and 
issuing results. 
 –––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date  :–––––––––––––. 
PaRt B
(To be filled by the Head of Department)
I declare that I have verified that Mr./Mrs./Miss…….
……………………………………............................, is in 
Class I/Class II/Class III (with five (5) years of experience) 
of the Public management assistants Service/ Provincial 
Government Public management assistants Service/Local 
Government Public management assistants Service,
 (a) has earned all increments during the 5 years 
immediately preceding 07
th June 2019
 (b) and has not been subjected to any disciplinary 
punishment during the five (5) years immediately 
preceding 07
th June 2019 and that the information 
furnished in the application is true. i hereby 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
certify that the examination fees have been paid 
and the receipt is attached herewith. 
Recommendation :
 (i) the applicant is eligible/ ineligible for service in 
missions abroad 
 (ii) the applicant can/ cannot be released, if selected.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of department with the 
 Official Frank.
designation :–––––––––––––. 
date :–––––––––––––. 
05–400
––––––––––––––––––
amendment
mINISTRy  Of  mAhAWELI  DEvELOPmENT 
AND  ENvIRONmENT  DEPARTmENT  Of 
fOREST CONSERvATION 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Post of forest field Assistant of the 
Department of forest Conservation - 2019
tHiS refers to the Gazette Notification number 2118 dated 
05.04.2019 concerning the above Examination. 
2. accordingly, closing date of inviting applications 
for the above competitive Examination is extended up to 
17.05.2019.
 W. a. c. 
weragoda, 
 conservator General of Forests.
Forest department, 
Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla, 
06th day of may, 2019.
05–461