

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2437$16 - 2025 මැයි ui 20 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2025.05'20
No.. 2437/16  -  TUESDAY,  MAY 20, 2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - G 44373 - 05 (05/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
My No.. : HA/05/20/01/01/34
APPOINTMENTS  UNDER  THE  NOTARIES  ORDINANCE
IT is hereby notified that the Honourable Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government, in 
terms of Section 05 of the No.taries Ordinance (Chapter 107), has made the following appointments with effect from April 
11, 2025.
 1. Mr. Liyanage Niroshan Perera of No. 32, Namal Uyana, Morukkuliya, Dankotuwa practicing as a Notary Public in 
the English Language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
 2. Mr. Praveen Shirantha Weerawardena Dissanayake of No. 40/5/15, Kudadeniya Lane, Hokandara South practicing 
as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
 3. Mr. Jayamuni Nuwan Rajapakse of No. 493/8, Makola North, Makola practicing as a Notary Public in the English 
Language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
 4. Mrs. Jayaweera Mudiyanselage Niroshini Priyanga Jayaweera of No. 35 C, Premachandrawaththa, Thimbirigaskatuwa, 
Negombo practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
 5. Mrs. Prarthana Yuki Poththewela Kankanam Gamage of No. 534/50 C, 3rd Lane, Prison Road, Dalupatha, Negombo 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2025
2A
practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
 6. Miss. Jayasinghe Dewayalage Malsha Udari Hansakumari Wijerathne of No. B-35/1, Dunukewala, Hiriwadunna, 
Rambukkana practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Kegalle.
 
 7. Miss. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Varnani Kumari Dissanayake of No. 67/4, Pragathi Mawatha, Uda Eriyagama, 
Peradeniya practicing as a Notary Public in the Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
 8. Miss. Manathunga Arachchilage Aravindu Nisansala Prasanna of No. 222/5, Dr.N.M.Perera Mawatha, Colombo 08 
practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 9. Mr. Neranjana Yasas Abewickrama Gunawardana of No. 240/5, Udana Mawatha, Wilgoda Road, Kurunegala practicing 
as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
 10. Mrs.Wijesinghe Mudiyanselage Nimesha Maduwanthi of No. 240/5, Udana Mawatha, Wilgoda Road, Kurunegala 
practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Kurunegala.
 11. Mrs. Kodagoda Withanage Tharaka Sewwandi of Albert Hettiarachchi Mawatha, Dimbulamure, Ella Road, Wellawaya 
practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Monaragala.
 12. Mrs. Jayasundara Mudiyanaselage Hashini Bandara Senevirathna of No. ID, Puwakgahakumbura, Muruthalawa 
Road, Peradeniya practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
 13. Mrs. Disanayaka Mudiyanselage Lakshmi Disanayaka of No. 103, Wawlagala, Munagama, Horana practicing as a 
Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
 14. Mrs. Dona Kanishka Viraji Samaranayaka Gunarathna of No. 15/326, Samagipura, Pelanwaththa, Pannipitiya practicing 
as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
 15. Mrs. Senanayaka Mudiyanselage Kushala Kumari Abeyrathna of No. 12, Vilayaya, Aralaganvila practicing as a 
Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Polonnaruwa.
 16. Mrs. Gangabadage Ravindi Nilushika of Suhada Mawatha, Pituwala Road, Elpitiya practicing as a Notary Public in 
the English Language within the judicial zone of Balapitiya.
 17. Mrs. Loku Karavitage Sandani Imasha of No. 58/E, Kamburugoda, Bandaragama practicing as a Notary Public in 
the English Language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
 18. Mrs. Jayakody Pinnage Nethmi Nirmani Jayakody of No. 50/3, “Jayakody Sewana”, Daham Mawatha, Wickramarachchi 
Mawatha, Yakkala practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
 19. Miss. Don Siman Ralalage Dona Nisali Amalka Gunawardana of No. 45/25 L, Hikgahawatta Road, Pepiliyana 
practicing as a Notary Public in the Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 20. Miss. Nanayakkara Wellalage Kalpa Gandhari Nanayakkara of No. 237, Matara Road, Unawatuna, Galle practicing 
as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Galle.
 21. Mr. Jayampathi Chamupa De Silva of No. 38/4A, Raymond Road, Nugegoda practicing as a Notary Public in the 
English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 22. Miss. Ruwandeniye Wickramaarachchilage Sanduni Gayathma Wickramaarachchi of No. 16/3D, Woodland Avenue, 
Kohuwala practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 23. Miss. Hansani Madhushika Premadasa of No. 99, Ratnapura Road, Ellagawa practicing as a Notary Public in the 
English Language within the judicial zone of Ratnapura.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2025
3A
 24. Miss.Walikannage Raveena Prasadi Perera of No. 455, Mahabellana, Alubomulla practicing as a Notary Public in 
the English Language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
 25. Mr. Trevor Shiroman Narendranalh Kumbalwela Wanniachy of No. 117, Abeysekara Road, Kawdana, Dehiwala 
practicing as a Notary Public in the Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 26. Mr. Safiul Muthunabeen Mohamed Muszhaaraff of No. 55/16 E, 1/1, Pieris Road, Mount Lavinia practicing as a 
Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 27. Mrs. Rajapaksha Pathiranalage Shasika Sudharshani Rajapaksha of No. 51/A, Dewala Road, Kiralogama, Thalawa 
practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Anuradhapura.
 28. Mrs. Imaduwa Vithanage Dinithi Hemachandra of No. 3/34, Palhum Uyana 2, Hokandara South, Hokandara practicing 
as a Notary Public in the Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
 29. Mrs. Alagiyawanna Mohotti Appuhamilage Anjalie Niluthpala Alagiyawanna of No. 309/C, Gemunu Mawatha, 
Kiribathgoda practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
 30. Miss. Dadallage Samuddini Kaushalya De Silva of No. 36, Wilson Street, Colombo 12 practicing as a Notary Public 
in the English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 31. Mrs. Moraula Lekamalage Oshadhi Madhumalika Moraula of No. 247/B/l, Kirimetithenna, Balangoda practicing as 
a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Ratnapura.
 32. Mrs. Gamagedara Bhagya Sudarshani Kularathna of No. 112, Moragolla Road, Thalathuoya, Kandy practicing as a 
Notary Public such in the -Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Kandy.
 33. Mr. Munithanthirige Hemal Dharmapriya of No. 157, Horana Road, Kesbewa, Piliyandala practicing as a Notary 
Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
 34. Miss. Koonara Mudiyanselage Nirmani Imasha Karunarathne of Beraliyapola, Galabedda, Monaragala practicing as 
a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Monaragala.
 35. Miss. Thiyagarajah Thanushapriya of Uva Highlands, Old Division, Bandarawela practicing as a Notary Public in 
the English Language within the judicial zone of Badulla.
 36. Miss. Singhabahu Arachchige Thathsarani Muthumali of “Sandacalum”, Egodagoda, Weherawaththa, Anguruwathota 
practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Panadura.
 37. Mrs. Dissanayake Mudiyanselage Dasuni Samanthika Dissanayake of No. 2/3, Galawila Road, Malapalla, Homagama 
practicing as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Homagama.
 38. Miss. Millewage Rasanjalee Nayana Darshani Wijcsinghe of No. 51/2, Keselhenawa, Dombagoda, Horana practicing 
as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Panadura..
 39. Mrs. Samanthika Darshani Athuldoraarachchi of No. 85, Kanaththa Road, Pannipitiya practicing as a Notary Public 
in the English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo and to practice as such.
 40. Miss. Thilakamuni Sachini Menuka Silva Gunasekara of No. 36, Wilson Street, Colombo 12 practicing as a Notary 
Public in the Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 41. Miss. Wadana Haluge Pahala Gedara Piumi Sandareka Wickramasinghe of No. 36, Wilson Street, Colombo 12 
practicing as a Notary Public in the Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2025
4A
 42. Mr. Samarapperuma Arachchige Charith Kalhara Samarapperuma of Priyasamara, Metikotuwa, Dankotuwa practicing 
as a Notary Public in the English Language within the judicial zone of Chilaw.
 43. Mrs. Sandali Lakshika Gammada Liyanage of No. 17, Sanasa Square, Court Road, Gampaha Practicing as a Notary 
Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
 44. Miss. Pavithra Malrukshi Kiriwaththuduwa of No. 22B, Sri Saranankara Road, Dehiwala practicing as a Notary 
Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 45. Miss. Dahanayakage Sanduni Mekala Dahanayaka of No. 600/A, Thunadahena, Dodampe, Ratnapura Practicing as 
a Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Ratnapura.
 46. Mrs. Rajakaruna Mudiyanselage Pushpika Gayathree Kumari Rajakaruna of No. 28/16, Sri Devananda Road, Navinna, 
Maharagama Practicing as a Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 47. Miss. Rajakaruna Nawarathna Attapattu Mudiyanselage Ruvini Sadunika Rajakaruna of No. 45/A, Jesminwatta, 
Kiribathkumbura Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Kandy .
 48. Miss. Rathnayaka Mudiyanselage Nuwanthika Chinthani Rathnayaka of Mahawatta, Yalpathwela, Welimada Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Badulla.
 49. Mrs. Egodauyanage Dasuni Madusha Egodauyana of Apartment 21/20/23, 21st Floor, Oval View Residencies, No. 
285, Pelangasthuduwa Road, Colombo 08 practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala Language within the judicial zone 
of Colombo .
 50. Mrs. Nizam Ameer Pathuma Nusrath of No. 39, Zavia Road, Dharga Town practicing as a Notary Public in English 
Language within the judicial zone of Kalutara.
 51. Miss. Jayawardhana Ralalage Prabodhani Madhuwanthi Ekanayake of “Aloka”, Menama, Aranayake Practicing as 
a Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Kegalle .
 52. Mrs. Rajapaksha Liyanage Iresha Udayangani Kumari Dassanayake of No. C-132, Dehimaduwa, Mawanella Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Kegalle
 53. Mrs. Dulmi Udara Jayasinghe of No. 93/1, Batakettara, Piliyandala Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala Language 
within the judicial zone of Homagama .
 54. Mr. Edirimuni Udara Yasasri Soysa of No. 361/3, Kotte Road, Pitakotte, Nugegoda Practicing as a Notary Public in 
Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Colombo.
 55. Mrs. Chandrika Wickramasinghe of No. 179, Ganegoda, Akmeemana practicing as a Notary Public in English 
Language within the judicial zone of Galle .
 56. Mrs. Kalu Wahumpurage Achini Maneesha Wccrasinghc of No. 401/C/l, Subasadhaka Mawatha, Bulugahapitiya, 
Eheliyagoda Practicing as a Notary Public in Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Avissawella.
 57. Miss. Kandage Aruni Sugandika Samaranayake of No. 8/26, Weerakone Waththa, Amunugoda, Imbulgoda  
Practicing as a Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
 58. Miss. Gamaathirallage Neela Harshani Abayawardane of No. F 68/1, Temple Road, Kahanawita, Dehiowita Practicing 
as a Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Avissawella.
 59. Mrs. Wickrama Kankanamge Piumi Vasundara of No. 387/A, Sakura Lane, Nagoda Road, Kalutara Practicing as a 
Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Kalutara .

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'05'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2025
5A
 60. Mrs. Prangige Sanduni Anjalee Dabare of No. 32/4A, 1st Kottawa Lane, Embuldeniya, Nugegoda practicing as a 
Notary Public in English Language within the judicial zone of Colombo .
 
 61. Miss.Saparamadu Mahabalage Don Varsha Savini Jayatilleke of No. 120, Bauddhaloka Mawatha , Gampaha practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Gampaha.
 62. Mrs. Abdul Azeez Sajitha Banu of No. 47/40, Manalthottam, Kalpitiya Practicing as a Notary Public in English 
Language within the judicial zone of Puttalam.
 63. Miss. Dona Sadaru Juditha Leshaini Ranaweera of No. 627B, “Shanthi Sevana”, Nugape, Pamunugama Practicing 
as a Notary Public in Sinhala Language within the judicial zone of Negombo.
              By Order of the Honourable Minister,
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and
 Local Government.
 
Colombo,
May 05, 2025.
EOG 05 - 0111
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.