

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
533
533
¡â¤ 1 ,446 _ 2006  ˜æ˘œ 19  Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.05.19
No. 1,446 – FRIDAY,  MAY   19,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 536
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 537
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 26th May, 2006 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 11th May, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.– Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,445 of 11.05.2006 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
534
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
535
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B2—B 079209

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
536
Posts - Vacant
PUBLIC   SERVICE   COMMISSION
Applications for Promotion to Class 2 Grade I in Sri Lanka
Teacher Educators’ Service - 2005
OFFICERS who have completed a satisfactory period of not less
than five years and confirmed in service in a Scheduled Post under
Class 2 Grade II in Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ service and who
have fulfilled the  following requirements relating to qualifications
are eligible to forward their applications for filling the vacancies
existing in Class 2 Grade I in that Service.
1. Should have fulfilled the following Academic and Professional
qualifications along with a Degree or Diploma in Education
Management.
(a) Should have obtained a Degree in Education from a
recognized University with a first or second class (Upper)
pass or should have obtained a higher Degree in
Education ; or
(b) should have obtained a Degree from a recognized University
in the relevant subject area and a Post Graduate Degree in
Education with a Distinction or Merit Pass or a Post Degree
in the relevant subject area ; or
(c) should have obtained a Degree from a recognized University
with a first  class or second class (Upper) Pass and Post
Graduate Diploma in education or a Post Degree in the
relevant subject area in Education.
Note.— Those who have completed a period of not less than 5
years service on the due date as a permanent Lecturer or an Assistant
Lecturer in a College or Education and over 45 years of their age will
be exempted only from the requirement of having a Degree or Diploma
in Education Management indicated in sub para (1) above.
2. The annual salary scale assigned to this Post is Rs. 1,55,100-
7x5,520-Rs. 1,93,740.
3. Selection.—  Selection for Promotion will be made on the
results of a structured interview conducted by a Selection Board
appointed by the Public Service Commission.
4. Candidates possessing the above qualifications should prepare
their applications in accordance with the specimen form indicated
below and forward applications to me before 19.06.2006 along with
the recommendation of the present Head of the College of Education/
Teacher Centre.
Note.— Selections will be made in accordance with the procedure
stipulated in Section 15 of Teacher Educucators’ Service Minute.
By Order of the Public Service Commission,
A RIY ARATHNA  HEWAG e,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Applications for Promotion to Class 2 Grade I in Sri Lanka
Teacher Educators’ Service - 2005
01. Name in Full (Surname) :———.
02. Official Address :———.
03. Private Address :———.
04. Date of Birth :———.
(i) Date appointed to a Scheduled Post indicated in Sri
Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service Minute :———.
(ii) Weather confirmed in the Post : Yes/No
(iii)Date Promoted to Grade 2-11 :———.
(iv) Weather Efficiency Bar Examination in Grade 2-11 has
been passed :———.
(v) Period of service in Grade 2-11 :———.
05. (i) Educational Qualifications :———.
(ii)Professional Qualifications :———.
06. Passes obtained at present in English Language if Degree
was not obtained in English medium :———.
07. Special Qualifications if any :———.
I do hereby declare that the information furnished above are true
and correct  to the best of any knowledge.
......................
Signature.
Date :———.
Recommendations of the Head of College/Teacher Institute
I certify that this officer……...................……is serving in this
Institute in a post in Grade 2-II in Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’
Service and that he/she has not been subjected to any disciplinary
punishment during the past five years and the information furnished
in this application are correct. I forward the application with my
recommendation for suitable actions as he/she has satisfied the
necessary qualifications in terms of the scheme of recruitment.
........................
President
NCOE/Head of
Teacher Institute.
Date :———.
05-255

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
537
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF
 PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS’  SERVICE  — 2006
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination for recruitment to the post in
Class III of Public Management Assistants’ Service - 2006.
2.0 Candidates who satisfy for prescribed qualifications will be selected on merit, on the results of a written examination to be
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination and, on the basis of district population to the posts in the Public Management
Assistant’s Service.
3.0 Number of Persons to be appointed and effective date of appointments will be determined by the Appointing Authority.
Further, the Appointing Authority reserve the right to refrain from filling any or all of the vacancies.
4.0 Salary.— As per the Public Administrative Circular No. 06/2006, dated 25.04.2006, monthly salary scale is entitled to Class
III, II and I of Public Management Assistant Service is Rs. 13,640 – 10 x 120 – 11 x 140 – 6 x 210 – Rs. 14 x 290 – Rs. 21,700. It should be
got the promotion to Class II and Class I for go beyond the monthly salary Rs. 14,840 and Rs.16,380 respectively.
5.0 This post is permanent and the employees are entitiled to a contributory pension.
6.0 Qualifications.— Following qualifications are applicable for the recruitment to the posts in Class III of Public Management
Assistants’ Service.
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications.
(c) Should be of good character.
(d) Should have fulfilled the following educational qualifications.
(1) Should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in Six (06) subjects with Four
(04) Credit passes inculding Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics and Two other subjects at one sitting and ;
(2) Should have passed in all subjects at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination at one sitting
(other than the common general paper and General English).
However, a pass in Three (03) subjects under the  old syllabus at one sitting would be sufficient for this purpose.
It is compulsory to have satisfied by candidates all qualifications prescribed for the post on or before 19th June 2006.
7.0 Selection on District Population Basis :
(a) Recruitment to the service will be strictly on a representative basis. A fixed number of vacancies will be set apart for each
district in propotion to it’s population and in terms  of Public Administrative Circular No. 15/90. Only the applicants from
a  particular district will be entitled to compete for the number of vacancies to be filled in that district.
(i) If the posts so allocated to a particular district are not absorbed by the district, that number of vacacies will be re-
distributed among the adjoining districts within the province.
(ii) If the total number of posts to be filled is few and the district population basis cannot be applied, selection will be made
on the order of merit.
(iii)Where the number of candidates who secure the minimum marks required is less than the number of vacancies available
in a distric, the district population basis shall not be applied for the selection.
(b) Eligibility for inclusion in a District :
At least one of the following requirements should be fulfilled by a candidate to compete for the vacancies in any district.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
538
(i) The candidate should have born in the district ;
                                   or
(ii) He should have been a permanent resident of the district at least for three (03) continuous years within the five (05)
years immediately preceeding the last date to fulfill the eligibility qualifications for the examination ;
                                   or
(iii) He should have received his secondary school education within the district for five (05) continuous years.
(c) In order to confirm the residence of the candidate under b (ii) above,  candidate is bound to forward extracts from electoral
registerees for a period of three (03) years immediately preceeding the closing date of applications and the certificate of
residence issued by Grama Niladhari duly counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
Note :— If the farther/mother of any candidate has been employed in a transferable service of the government or of a
provincial public service or of a state corporation, such candidate will be allowed to choose his own, or his father’s/Mother’s
place of birth as his district. (Candidates are required to forward birth certificates of parents for this purpose)
2. No candidate will be allowed to complete for vacancies in more than one district. Once a candidate declares a district
of his choice as the most preferred, it should remain irrevocable.
8.0 Three percent (3%) of the existing number of vacancies will be reserved for disabled persons. Only 3% of the disabled persons
who secure highest marks in the examination and qualify will be  selected for appointment. The minimum level of marks, candidates should
score to be selected for appointment is 50%. A candidate selected for an appointment  will be referred to a Special Medical Board and he/
she should establish the disablement and the fact that, it does not  hinder performance of duties of the respective post by a report obtained
from a medical specialist.
9.0 Scheme of the Examination :-
The examination  will consist of two papers.
Marks Durations
(i) Language Proficiency 100 1 1/2 hours
(ii)Aptitude 100 1 hour
Language Profifiency.— This paper will consist of brief questions designed to test the candidate’s ability of expression,
comprehension, spelling and knowledge in the application of the simple rules of grammar.
Aptitude.— This paper will consist of brief questions designed to test the candidates skill at figures, power of critical reasoning and
general intelligence.
(These papers will be designed to test the aptitude and ability of the candidate to perform his official duties)
Despite this being a competitive examination, candidates are expected to secure at least 40% of the marks allocated for each subject
and an aggregate of at least 50% of the total marks of the examination. Appointments will strictly be made in the order of the marks scored,
depending on the number of vacancies set apart to be filled on the results of the competitive examination.
10.0 Penalty for furnishing false information.— The candidate should be very careful to inculde the correct particulars in the
application. If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this examination his/her candidature can
be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination. Further, if it is found that any information furnished by a candidate is false
he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public service.
11.0 Examination Fees.— Examination fee is Rs.250. This fee can be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat under the head
4000- 20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained should be affixed in the relevant cage of the
application so as not to be detached. (However, candidates should note the number of the receipt, date and the office for further reference).
Under no circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and money orders and stamps are accepted.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
539
12.0 Applications.— Applications should be prepared in the following manner using a paper of size A4 (21 x 29cm)
(a) Cages from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the page.
(b) Cages from 4 onwards should appear on the other pages.
Applications which are incomplete, and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected without any
notice. Applications of those who haven’t paid examination fee on or before due date will also be rejected. Candidates should
be responsible for any loss incurred by them due to incomplete applications.
12.1 All Applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees and forwarded their applications on or before the prescribed
date wil be allowed to sit the competitive examination, by the Commissioner General of Examinations, on the presumption
that only those who possess qualifications as indicated in the Gazette Notification have forwarded their applications. Issue
of an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive examination does not mean to have accepted that he possesses all
the qualifications for this post. If it was found at the interview that the applicant does not possess the required qualifications
his or her candidature will be cancelled.
12.2 The words “Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class III of Public Management Assistants’ Serivice -
2006” and the district for which the candidates is competing should be written on the top left -hand corner of the envelope
in which the applications is enclosed.
12.3 Candidates’ signature in the application form should have been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a Justice
of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an officer holding a
Gazetted post in the Police Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose annual Salary is
Rs. 124,080 or above and annual increment is Rs. 1,560 or above.
12.4 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 19.06.2006.
Commissioner General of Examinations
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
13.0 Sitting the Examination.— The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue Admission Cards so as to reach the
candidates one-week before the date of examination. A notification will be published in the newspapers in this respect  and candidates should
be on attention in the publication of such notice. Candidates who do not receive their Admission Cards by that time should make inquiries
from the Commissioner General of Examinations giving following information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Town Selected ;
(iii)District applied for ;
(iv) Registered No. under which it is sent, with date and name of Post Office ;
(v) Number and date of the Cash Receipt and the Office.
14.0 Candidates should furnish one of the following documents to the Supervisor of Examination in support of their identity :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
15.0 The date of the examination will be informed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in due course.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
540
16.0 Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Director General of Combined Services. All candidates are bound to
comply with  the general examination rules published in this Gazette.
A. NOBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
04th of May 2006.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE - 2006
(Indicates the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
(for office use only)
Language Medium
Sinhala - S
Tamil - T
English - E
(Indicates the correct letter in the cage)
Indicate the town in which the candidates intends to sit the examination
as per the Gazette notification. (See the schedule II for the towns where 1.
the examination centers are located and for the numbers) 2.
The district in which you select to compete for vacancies as per para 7.0
 of the Gazette notification. (See the schedule I for the numbers of districts.
Indicate the number and the district in the relevant cage)
Are yor sitting this examination under the rehabilitation circular conditions Yes - 1
 for disabled as per para 8.0 of the Gazette notifications? (Candidates may
refer 8.0 of the Gazette notification before filling this application) No - 2
(indicated the number in the cage)
1.0 Name :———.
1.1 Name with initials :———.
(In English block capitals) Eg. PERERA, A. B. C. :
1.2 Name in Full :———.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in Full :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Number of the N. I. C :———.
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :———.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :———.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
Town Number of
the Town
District District No.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
541
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :———.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female - F Male - M
(Indicate relevant letter in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth : year Month Date
3.2 Age ast at 19.06.2006 Years Months Days
4.0 4.1 From when have you been residing in the district :———.
4.2 Divisional Secretary’s/Assistant Government Agent’s Division :———.
4.3 Grama Niladhari Division :———.
5.0 Educational qualifications :
5.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :———.
i. Year and Month of the Examination :———.
ii. Index Number of Candidate :———.:
iii. Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
5.2 Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :
(ii) Index Number of Candidate :
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.3 If possessing a degree from recognized University,
(i) Name of the University :———.
(ii) Degree :———.
(iii) Year of Examination :———.
6.0 Other qualification :———.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
542
7.0 Have you ever been convited of any offence in a court of Law? (Indicate  ‘ ’ in the Relevant cage) (Indicate particulars, if the
answer is yes)
Yes N o
8.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :———.
i. Office to which the payment made :———.
ii. Number and the date of the receipt :———.
iii. Amount :———.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
9.0 Candidate’s Certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this applications are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
I agree so suffer any loss that may be caused as a result of any information not being completed and/or any information
erroneously being included here., I also state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before appointment
and to dismissal from service if the  inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions relating to this examination.
(d) I do not change any information mentioned herein later.
......................................
Signature of Applicant.
Date :
10.0 Attestation of Applicant’s Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs/Miss ........................... who submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on................
.......................................................
Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Date:...............
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
(To be confirmed by Official stamp)

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
543
Schedule - I
The List of the Names of Districts
District District  Number
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mulativu 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Polonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilonochchi 25
Schedule - II
Towns where Examination Centers are located
District Town No. of the Town
(01) Colombo Kotahena 01
Maradana 02
Borella 03
Kurunduwatta 04
Bambalapitiya 05
Havelock Town 06
Nugegoda 07
Moratuwa 08
Piliyandala 09
Homagama 10
Maharagama 11
Hanwella 12
Avissawella 13
(02) Gampaha Negombo 14
Minuwangoda 15
Divulapitiya 16
Veyangoda 17
Gampaha 18
Ja-Ela 19
Wattala 20
Kelaniya 21
Dompe 22
(03) Kalutara Horana 23
Panadura 24
Kalutara 25
Matugama 26
Aluthgama 27
(04) Matale Matale 28
Galewela 29
Naula 30
Leggala Pallegama 31
(05) Kandy Kandy 32
Katugastota 33
Teldeniya 34
Wattegama 35
Nugawela 36
Galagedara 37
Gampola 38
(06) Nuwara Eilya Hedunuwewa 39
Nuwara Eliya 40
Watumulla 41
Hatton 42
Ginigathhena 43
(07) G alle Ambalangoda 44
Galle 45
Baddegama 46
(08) Matara W eligama 47
Matara 48
Kamburupitiya 49
Hakmana 50
Deiyandara 51
Dikwella 52
Akuressa 53
Kotopola 54
(09) Hambantota Beliatta 55
Walasmulla 56
Weeraketiya 57
Tangalle 58
Ambalantota 59
Hambantota 60
Tissamaharama 61
(10) Jaffna Chavakachcheri 62
Jaffna 63
Thellipallai 64
Point Pedro 65
District Town No. of the Town

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : ( II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.05.19
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 19.05.2006
544
(11) Mannar Mannar 66
Murukkan 67
(12) Mullativu Mullativu 68
(13) Vavuniya Vavuniya 69
(14) Trincomalee Kantalai 70
Trincomalee 71
Muttur 72
Padavi Parakramapura 73
Kinniya 74
(15) Batticaloa Batticaloa 75
Eravur 76
Kathankudi 77
(16) Ampara Ampara 78
Serankada 79
Kalmunai 80
Akkaraepattu 81
Sammanthurai 82
(17) Puttalam Wennappuwa 83
Madampe 84
Chilaw 85
Puttalam 86
(18) Kurunegala Kuliyapitiya 87
Bingiriya 88
Narammala 89
Polgahawela 90
Kurunegal 91
Ibbagamuwa 92
Dodangaslanda 93
Morathiha 94
Nikaweratiya 95
Maho 96
(19) Anuradhapura Medawachchiya 97
Kekirawa 98
Anuradhapura 99
Galenbindunuwewa 100
Kahatagasdigiliya 101
(20) Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa 102
Hingurakgoda 103
(21) Badulla Bandarawela 104
Welimada 105
Badulla 106
Passara 107
Mahiyanganaya 108
Girandurukotte 109
Hasalaka 110
(22) Monaragala Bibile 111
Monaragala 112
Wellawaya 113
(23) Kegalle Kegalle 114
Rambukkana 115
Mawenella 116
Ruwanwella 117
(24) Ratnapura Eheliyagoda 118
Ratnapura 119
Pelmadulla 120
Balangoda 121
Kalawana 122
Embilipitiya 123
(25) Kilinochchi Kilinochchi 124
Pallai 125
05-274
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
District Town No. of the Town District Town No. of the Town