

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1907$47 - 2015 ud¾;= ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'03'26
No. 1907/47  - THURSDAY ,  MARCH  26,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L. D. B. 1/2012(II)
FISHERIES    AND    AQUATIC    RESOURCES    ACT,    No.   2   OF   1996
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Fisheries under Section 61(1)(sg), (sh) and (t) of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Act, No. 2 of 1996.
MAHINDA AMARAWEERA
Minister of Fisheries.
Colombo,
25th March, 2015.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as Implementation of Satellite based Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) for Fishing
Boats Operating in High Seas  Regulations 2015.
2. No person shall deploy fishing boats, supply or cargo vessels, reefers and carrier vessels (hereinafter referred to
as the “Vessels”) having an overall length of 10.3m (34 feet) or more for high seas fishing operations unless such vessel is
fitted with Satellite based Vessel Monitoring System Device (hereinafter referred to as a “Monitoring Device”) on board
approved by Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (hereinafter referred to· as “the Department”) which allows
tracking and identification of such vessels by the land based Fisheries Monitoring Centre (hereinafter referred to as “FMC”,
particulars of which is specified in the Schedule I hereto) of the Department.
3. The master, skipper, owner or licensee of the fishing vessel shall take steps to ensure that the Monitoring Device
on board is activated at all times irrespective of their geographical location allowing four hourly automatic transmission of
required information or any time intervals decided by Director General as he may deem fit to the FMC. Such data shall
include;-

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
(i) the identification of the fishing vessel ;
(a) registration number of the vessel;
(b) international call sign;
(c) name of the Vessel;
(d) International Maritime Organization No. (If available)
(e) Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (lOTC) No.
(ii) the current geographical location of the fishing boat (longitude, latitude) with a position error of less than 500
meters, at a constant interval of 99%;
(iii) the date and time (expressed in Universal Time Coordinated) for the fixing of the position referred to in paragraph
(ii) .of the fishing boat;
(iv) the speed and course of the fishing vessel.
4. (1) The “FMC” established under the Department shall be responsible for twenty four hour monitoring of any
fishing vessel in high seas irrespective of their geographical position. The land based FMC shall receive the required
information once in every four hours or any time intervals decided by Director General as he deems fit through a well-established
computer system, coordinated by the service providers for automatic data processing and electronic data transmission.
(2) FMC shall keep and maintain backup and recovery procedures of the information received in order to support in
the event of system failure.
5. The Department may provide information on Sri Lanka flagged fishing vessels to the regional fisheries management
organization of which Sri Lanka is a member.
6. The FMC shall submit the data and information required to the Management Division of the Department at it’s
request for the purpose of verification of logbook data and detection of any Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing
activity.
7. The FMC shall take steps to ensure that the data received from any vessel is recorded and preserved either in soft
or hard copies for a period of not more than two years or for a period as may be determined by the Director General.
8. The FMC through coordination with the service providers shall :-
(i) take steps to ensure the Monitoring Devices on board of every vessel functions properly and not tampered
with;
(ii) monitor the fishing vessels at all times which engages in fishing at high seas or fishing related activities, and
(iii) take steps to ensure accur acy of the data ;
9. When any Monitoring Device on board becomes defective or mal functioning the master, skipper, owner, licensee
or representative authorized by the master, skipper or owner shall inform such failure to the FMC of the Department with
immediate effect and , shall communicate and provide required data and information to the Department once in every four
hours or any time intervals decided by Director General as he deems fit by any communication facility available such as;
e-mail, fax, telephone or SSB radio etc.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
10. In the event of detection of such technical failure or mal-functioning of the Monitoring Device fixed on board,
the device shall be repaired or replaced within a maximum period of one month. A fishing vessel shall not leave a port
following a technical failure unless the defective Monitoring Device is repaired and in good working order to the satisfaction
of the FMC of Department.
11. No Monitoring Device shall be deactivated while in port until written authorization is given by the FMC of the
Department. A written confirmation from the port authorities in respect of the time of arrival at port and a letter of confirmation
from the owner indicating the estimated stay in the port shall also be produced to the Department. The first position report
generated after repowering shall not be different in relation to the position of the vessel in the last report.
12. Master or Skipper of a vessel shall take steps to ensure that the Monitoring Device on board is active at all times
and no person shall destroy, damage, render it inoperative or otherwise interfere with the Monitoring Device installed on
board and such activity is strictly prohibited. In particular,
(a) alter the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) data in any manner;
(b) obstruct the antenna or the antennas connected to the Monitoring Device manually;
(c) interrupt the power supply to the Monitoring Device manually; and
(d) remove the Monitoring Device from the fishing vessel or change the installed position in the vessel without
prior approval from the FMC of the Department.
13. Where FMC of the Department fails to receive data transmission within four hours time intervals or any different
time interval decided by Director General as he deems fit it shall notify master or the owner, licensee of such vessel or any
representative authorized in that behalf by such master with immediate effect .If such occurrence takes place in relation to a
particular vessel, more than three times a year FMC of the Department shall conduct an investigation including an official
check on the device in question, in order to establish whether the equipment has been tampered with .
14. The skipper or master of a vessel shall take steps to ensure through the Monitoring Device and its FMC monitors
the date and time of the entry into and the exit from :-
(a) any maritime areas where specific rules on access to waters and resources apply;
(b) the regulatory areas of the Regional Fisheries Maritime Organization;
(c) jurisdictional waters of any other state;
(d) any other area, restricted or otherwise, which may be designated by Department.
15. Any Vessel which operates in close proximity up to twenty miles of any marine protected area or areas otherwise
restricted for fishing shall be required to report at hourly intervals or any time intervals decided by Director General as he
deems fit when they remain in that proximity.
16. The FMC shall take steps to ensure compliance by the vessel with the in- transit operation of the vessel. Any
vessel that transits shall communicate the date and time of entering and leaving the areas of the Exclusive Economic Zone to
FMC of the Department and the authorities of the relevant country to which the transit passage belongs to.
17. Access to the vessel monitoring data base shall be restricted to the officers authorized by Director General in
writing in that behalf. Each staff member having access to the records of vessel monitoring data base shall be required to sign
the declaration of restriction on the use and disclosure of the position of the vessel as specified in Schedule II of this
regulation.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
18. The officer in charge of the FMC shall be responsible for the monitoring of the Vessels and shall keep such data
under lock and key and the ownership of the information and data of the vessel monitoring shall be vested with the
Department and no such data shall be released except under the written permission of the Director General.
19. Satellite devices or any equipment for the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) shall only be obtained from the
authorized service provider approved by the Department in writing
20. These regulations shall apply to any fishing vessel having the overall length of 10.3m (34 feet) or more.
21. In these regulations unless tha context otherwise requires.
“Director General” means the Director General of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources appointed under section 2 of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No 2 of 1996;
“High seas fishing operations” means fishing activities conducted beyond the Exclusive Economic Zone (200
nautical miles) and beyond the waters of the national jurisdiction of any other state;
“fishing related activities” means any operation in support of, or in preparation for, fishing, including the
landing, packaging, processing, transshipping or transporting of fish that have not been previously landed
at a port, as well as the provisioning of personnel, fuel, gear and other supplies at sea;
“Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing” refers to the activities set out in paragraph 1 of the Resolution
11/03 adopted by the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission  referred to in section 14G of the Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources Act, No.2 of 1996;
“port” includes offshore terminals and other installations for landing, transshipping, packaging, processing,
refueling or resupplying;
“vessel” means any vessel, ship or boat used for, equipped to be used for or intended to be used for, fishing or
fishing related activities.
(Regulation 2)
SCHEDULE I
Information of the Fisheries Monitoring Centre of Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources ( DF AR) Sri Lanka
Name
Address
Tel No.
Telex No
Fax  No.
Email :
(Regulation 17)
SCHEDULE  II
Format of the declaration of the restriction on the use and disclosure of the vessel position information.
Declaration
I the undersigned ...........................................................................................hereby undertake to treat whatever information is
made  available to me from the Vessel Monitoring System (VMS) data base in a confidential manner and desist from divulging
in to any it to any person other than any person authorized in writing by the Director General
Name of the officer-
Designation-
NIC no -
04-396/1

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
L D. B 1/2012(II)
FISHERIES   AND   AQUATIC    RESOURCES   ACT   No.   2  OF  1996
REGULA TIONS made by the Minister of Fisheries under Section 61(1)(I) and (t) of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act,
No.2 of 1996
Mahinda Amaraweera,
Minister of Fisheries.
Colombo,
25th March 2015.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as Implementation of Port State Measures to.  Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal
Unreported and Unregulated Fishing Regulations 2015.
2. (1) No person shall except under authority of a license issued by the Director General of the Department of
Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, (hereinafter referred to as the “Director General”) land, transship, pack or process fish
taken outside Sri Lanka waters by a foreign fishing boat, or obtain services such as resupplying, maintenance and dry
docking for such boat at any port of Sri Lanka, authorized by the Director General.
(2) Director General shall take steps to prevent such activities specified in paragraph (1) of the  regulation being
carried out in any port in Sri Lanka except in a port designated and declared in the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission or any port
of Sri  Lanka authorized by the Director General.
3. Every application for a license specified in regulation 2 shall be made substantially in the form specified in
schedule I hereto and shall be accompanied by certified copies of boat registration issued by the Flag country, certificate of
authorization to fish in high seas issued by the Flag country or any coastal state, the advance declaration in schedule II
hereto and any other document requested by the Director General with a fee of ten thousand rupees.
4. An application referred to in regulation 3 shall be made at least forty eight hours in advance prior to the entering
of the boat in to the designated port for the first time and twenty four hours in· advance prior to the re-entering of such boat
to the designated port or immediately after the end of fishing operation. if the time distance to the port is less than twenty four
hours. .
5. (1) The license shall be substantially in the form specified in Part I, II and III of Schedule III for landing, transshipment
and for maintenance, dry docking and port of services respectively.
(2). Every license referred to in regulation 5(1) shall be valid for a time period specified therein and shall be subject
to the conditions imposed by Director General in conformity with the relevant resolutions adopted by the Indian Ocean Tuna
Commission and the Port State Measures Agreement.
6. Every license holder shall comply with the provisions of the Immigrants and Emigrants Act, No. 20 of 1948 and the
Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) when acting under the license in addition to the terms and conditions imposed by this
regulation and the license issued thereunder.
7. When the Director General has sufficient evidence to believe that the boat seeking entry into the designated port
has been engaged in Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing (hereinafter referred to as IUU fishing) related activities or
in support of such fishing, in particular the boat on a list of vessels having been engaged in IUU fishing or such fishing
related activities adopted by a Regional Fisheries Management Organization, he shall deny entry to the designated port and

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
such decision shall be communicated to the Flag country of  the boat, coastal country of which, the fishing is authorized,
State of which the master of the boat is a national and the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission.
8. Every foreign boat permitted entry to the port, shall be inspected by the qualified inspectors authorized in writing
in that behalf for that purpose in accordance with the procedure in schedule IV hereto and submit the report of port
inspection in the format specified in schedule V hereto to the Director General. The Director General shall transmit the port
inspection report to the Flag country and the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission in conformity with the relevant resolutions
adopted.
9. The master, skipper or the captain of any boat subject to inspection shall cooperate with the inspector in carrying
out the inspection procedure.
10. The inspector shall avoid any undue delay when carrying out any inspection in order to ensure minimum
interference and inconvenience in respect of a passage of such vessel and degradation of the quality of the fish.
11. The communication system of the boat shall be linked to the radio frequencies of the Monitoring Control
Surveillance unit of Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources of Sri Lanka and each boat shall carry “a transponder
which is linked to the central monitoring system of the flag state.
12. The master, skipper or the captain of boat shall submit a copy of the log book maintained in terms of fish catch
data collection  and data of tuna catch and similar species with the geographic location of which the catch has taken place and
the transshipment declaration if a transshipment has taken place at sea, in accordance with the format set out in Schedule VI
hereto to the Director General.
13. Ten percent (10%) of the total weight of tuna and similar fish landed by a foreign fishing boat under the authority
of a license issued in accordance with regulation 2 shall be made available to the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation to be
purchased at a price to be agreed by such Corporation. The aforesaid ten percent of the total weight of tuna fish shall consist
of five percent (5%) of fresh tuna and five percent (5%) of frozen tuna.
14. This regulation shall not affect the entry of any boat to port in accordance with international law of reasons of
force majeure or distress. Accordingly a vessel shall not be denied of the use of port services essential to the safety or health
of the crew or the safety of the boat, provided these needs are duly proven or if there is a risk of imminent danger to the vessel.
15. In these regulations -
“ Fishing related activities” means any operation in support of, or in preparation for, fishing including the
landing, packaging, processing, transshipping or transporting of fish that have not been previously landed
at a port, as well as the provisioning of personnel, fuel gear and other supplies at sea;
“Illegal, Unreported and Unregulated fishing” refers to the activities set out in paragraph I of the Resolution
11/03 adopted by Indian Ocean Tuna Commission  referred to in section 14G of the Fisheries and Aquatic
Resources Act, No.2 of 1996 ;
“Designated port” includes offshore terminals and other installations for landing, transshipping, packaging,
processing, refueling or resupplying of boat and reported to the Indian Ocean Tuna Commission to be
declared by the port state;
“Boat” means any vessel, ship or boat used for, equipped to be used for, or intended to be used for, fishing or
fishing related activities.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE   I
An application for fish landing / transshipment / maintenance and port services by foreign fishing boat in
designated and declared port of Sri Lanka.
1. Information of the local Agent/Company applying for the license
a. Full name: b. Address:
c. Telephone No: d. Fax No:
e. E-mail f. Board ofInvestments(BOI) Registration No:
1. Information of the Foreign Agent/Company owns the fishing vessel
a. Full name: b. Address:
c. Telephone No: d. Fax No:
e. E-mail f. Board ofInvestments(BOI) Registration No:
3. Purpose of port call :
a) Fish Landing b) Transshipment c) Maintenance and port services
4. Information of the Foreign fishing boart
a) Name of the boat b) Boat Nationality
c) Boat Registration No d) Valid period of boat registration
e) Indian Ocean Tuna Commision(IOTC) f) Valid period of IOTC authorization
authorized No
g) State of fishing authorization h) Valid period of fishing authorization
i) Radio call Sign j) International Maritime Organization (IMO)
No
k) Home port of the boat I) Last port call
Description of the boat
a) Length overall b) Draught c) Breath d) Hull material
e) Gross tonnage f) Net Tonage g) Fishing gear h) Cooling System
i) Deck equipment j) V essel Monitoring
System (VMS)

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
6. Details of the crew on board
Name Nationality Employment
7. Detail to obtain license for transshipment
a) Date of transshipment
b) Geographic location of the catches
c) Receiving boat (carrier boat) information,
a) Name of the receiving boat b) Boat Nationality
c) Boat Registration No d) Valid period of boat registration
e) IOTC authorization No f) Valid period of IOTC authorization
g) Radio Call Sign h) IMO No.
i) Home port of the boat j) Last port call
d) Details of the species of fish/type of product to be transshipped
Species of fish Type of product Quantity (tons)
( whole,gutted,headed,filleted)
Yellow fin tuna
Bigeye tuna
Skip jack tuna
Marlin
8. Details to obtain license for maintenance and port services
a) Required Service :
i) Refueling -
ii) Resupplying - water /lce/Bait/Food / ........./......../ ........
iii) Maintenance required: Engine/Propellers/Dry docking
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct.......................
Signature
Date :
Total

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
(Regulation 3)
SCHEDULE   II
Information to be provided in advance by boat requesting port entry
1. Intended port of call
2. Port State
3. Estimated date and time of arrival
4. Purpose(s)”
5. Port and date of last port call
6. Name of the boat
7. Flag State
8. Type of boat
9. International Radio Call Sign
10. boat contact information
11. boat owners( s)
12. Certificate of registration No
13. IMO ship registration No, ifavailable
14. Any other registration No,if available
15.  IOTC No
16. VMS NO Yes: National   Yes: RFMO(s)  Type
17. Boat                        Length              Beam                 Draft
dimensions
18. Boat master’ name and nationality
19. Relevant fishing authority/Department
Identifier Issued by V alidity Fishing Species Gear
area(s)
20. Relevant transshipment authority
Identifier Issued by V alidity
Identifier Issued by V alidity
21. Transhipment information concerning
doner boats
Date Location Name Flag ID Species Product Catch Quantity
State area
22. Total catch onboard
                                   23.Catch to be landed
species Product form Catch area Quantity

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
(Regulation 5)
SCHEDULE     III
PART I
License for fish landing by foreign fishing boat in designated and declared port in Sri Lanka.
1 ..................................... (Applicant) of..................................(address) is hereby authorized to land fish taken out side
the Sri Lankan waters by the................................ (country) fishing boat ..............................“(name)” bearing registration
number.................................and the High seas Fishing operation   license no .issued...................................by
.............................................(the fishing authority of flag country..................................Icoastal state) at the  harbour
of Sri Lanka.
2. This license shall be used by the person named hereto and shall not be transferable to any other person.
3. This licence shall, unless earlier cancelled be valid for a period of .................. commencing from 20 . ./ .. ./ .. land fish
caught in a single fishing trip.
4. Any fish taken out side the Sri Lanka waters and landed under the authority of this license shall not be transshipped
using any local or foreign fishing boat at the port except under a license issued for such purpose under regulation
2 of Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal Unreported and Unregulated Regulations 2015.
5. This license shall be subjected to the provisions of Port State Measures to Prevent, Deter and Eliminate Illegal
Unreported and Unregulated Regulations 2015 and the conditions given below.
FISH   LANDING CONDITIONS
1. This license is subject to the immigrants and emigrants Act No 20 of 1948 and Customs Ordinance.
2 The fish catch should be caught out side the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) of Sri Lanka and the fishing gears
of the boat should be kept stowed during the arrival to the designated port and fishing within the Exclusive
Economic Zone (EEZ)of Sri Lanka is completely prohibited.
3 Port inspectors appointed by the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, Harbour .Managers of Ceylon
Fisheries Harbour Corporation (CFHC) , Coast Guards and the Navy Officials are authorized to inspect the fishing
boat.
4 Radio communication system of the boat should be linked to the radio frequencies of the Monitoring, Control,
Servillance (MCS ) unit of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and each boat shall carry a
transponder which is linked to the central monitoring system of the flag country.
5 The total catch landed using this license should be reported in accordance with species of fish to the Director
General/Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources and the Harbour Manager at the end of the landing.
6 The licence holder should strictly adhere to the Security requirements imposed by the Ministry of Defence.
7 Any pollutant should not be discharged to the marine environment of harbour basin.
8 Departed port of the boat should be a recognized port of the flag country or a coastal State.
 9 Land, sell or exhibit for sale of whole carcass or any part of a marine mammal, sea turtle, thresher shark species,
white tip shark and only the fins which have been removed from the body of other sharks is completely prohibited.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
l0 In addition to the berthing charges and the other charges levied by the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation (CFC) Ten
percent (10%) of the total weight of a tuna fish landed by a foreign fishing boat under regulation 13 shall be made
available to the Ceylon Fisheries Corporation of a price agreed by such corporation with the company. The
aforesaid ten percent of the total weight of tuna fish shall consist of five (5%) of fresh tuna and five percent (5%)
frozen tuna.
11 These conditions shall not apply to fish in containers landed at the commercial  port by a foreign fishing boat
accompanied with a bill of lading at the time of landing
P
ART II
License to transship fish landed by foreign fishing boat in designated and declared port -in Sri Lanka.
1. ..........................................(Name of Applicant) of .................................................(Address) is hereby  authorized to
transship the tuna and tuna like fish species in given quantities in the table (l) below, which is landed in the
..........................................................harbour of Sri Lanka under the   authority of the license No........................ (license
no) issued by the Director General to  the carrier boat of ........................................ (country).....................................(boat
name) and beaing registration No ..................................
2. This license shall be used by the person named hereto and shall not be transferable to any other persons.
3. This licence shall, unless earlier cancelled be valid for a period........................................................... commencing
from 20....../ .........to..................
.
4. Fish Landing by a foreign fishing boat accompanied by a bills of lading at the time of landing at the commercial
port and exported in containers shall not be treated as transshipment.
5. This license shall be subjected to the provisions of Port State Measures to prevent, deter and Eliminate Illegal
Unreported and Unregulated fishing Regulations 2015 and the conditions given below.
6. Table I - Detail of Tuna and Tuna like species as permitted to tranship
Species of fish Form of Quantity (Kg/ton) Date of transshipment
 transshipment
Yellow Tuna
Bigeye tuna
Marlin
Sword fish
Sharks
Others
Director General/Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Date

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
Part III
License for maintenance and to obtain port services by foreign fishing boat in designated and declared port in Sri Lanka.
1. The.......................................( country) Fishing vessel named ........................................ and bearing registration
number.......................................is authorized to enter the...............................................harbour o n the date
....................................  for maintenance, dry docking ,or to obtain port services only.
2. This license shall be used by the person named hereto and shall not be transferable to any other person.
3. This license is valid only for the purpose specified herein and landing of any fish in the harbour using this licence
is totally prohibited.
4. This licence shall, unless earlier cancelled be valid for a period of..................................................commencing from
20..../.............to......................
Director General Date
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
(Regulation 8)
SCHEDULE    IV
Port State inspection procedure
Inspectors shall :
a) verify, to the extent possible, that the boat identification documentation onboard and information relating to the
owner of the boat is true, complete and accurate, including through appropriate contacts with the flag state or
international records of boats if necessary;
b) verify that the boat’s flag and markings (e.g. name, registration number, International Maritime Organisation
(IMO) ship identification number ,international radio call sign and other markings, main dimensions) are consistent
with the information contained in the documentation;
c) verify, to the extent possible, that the authorizations for fishing and fishing related activities are true, complete,
accurate and consistent with the information provided in accordance with schedule II;
d) review all other relevant documentation and records held onboard , including, to the extent possible , those in
electronic format and vessel monitoring system (VMS) data from the flag State or Indian Ocean Tuna Commision
(IOTC) Secretariat or other relevant Regional Fisheries Management Organizations (RFMOs). Relevent
documentation may include logbooks, catch, transshipment and trade documents ,crew lists, storage plans and
drawings, descriptions of fish holds, and documents required pursuant to the Convention on International Trade
in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora;
e) examine, to the extent possible, all relevant fishing gear onboard , including any gear stowed out of sight as well
as related devices, and to the extent possible, verify that they are in conformity with the conditions of the
authorizations . The fishing gear shall , to the extent possible, also be checked to ensure that features such as the
mesh and twine size, devices and attachments, dimensions and configuration of nets,pots,dredges,hook sizes
and numbers are in conformity with applicable regulations and that the markings correspond to those authorized
for the boat;

<!-- page 13 -->

13AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
f) determine, to the extent possible, whether the fish on board was harvested in accordance with the applicable
authorizations;
g) examine the fish, including by sampling,to determine its quantity and composition. in doing so , inspectors may
open containers where the fish has been pre-packed and move the catch or containers to ascertain the composition
of fish holds. Such examination may include inspections of product type and determination of nominal weight;
h) determine whether there is sufficient evidence to belive that a boat has been engaged in Illegal, Unreported,
Unregulated ( IUU) fishing or fishing related activities in support of such fishing;
i) provide the master of the boat with the report containing the result of the inspection, including possible measures
that could be taken, signed by the inspector and the master. The master’s signature on the report shall serve only
as acknowledgment of the receipt of a copy of the report. The master shall be given the opportunity to add any
comments or objection to the report, and as appropriate, to contact the relevant Authorities of the flag State in
particular where the master has serious difficulties in understanding the content of the report . A copy of the
report shall be provided to the master ; and
i) arrange, where necessary and possible, for translation of relevant documentation.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
(Regulation 8)
SCHEDULE    V
Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) Port Inspection report form
1. Inspection report
No.
2. Port State
3. Inspecting
Authority
4. Name of principal
inspector
5. Port of inspection
6. Commencement of
inspection
7. Completion of
inspection
8. Advanced
notification received
9. Purpoes (s)
10. Port and State and
date of last
port call
11. Name of the boat
12. Flag State
13. Type of boat
14. International Radio Call Sign
15. Certificate of registration No.
16. IMO ship registration No., if available
17. Any other registration No., if available
18. Port of registry
19. Boat owner(s)
20. Boat beneficial owner(s), if known and different
 from boat owner
21. Boat operation(s), if different from boat  owner
22. Boat master name and natonality
23. Fishing master name and nationality
24. Boat agent
25. VMS NO Yes: National   Yes: RFMO(s)                    Type
26. Status in IOTC, including IUU vessel listing
Vessel identifier RFMO Flag State status Vessel and  authorized Vessel on IUU
 vessel list  vessel list
27. Relevant fishing authorization(s)
Identifier Issued by V alidity Fishing area(s) Specice Gear
28. Relevent transshipment authorization (s)
Identifier Issued by V alidity
Identifier Issued by V alidity
29. Transshipment information concerning doner boats
YYYY M M DD
LAN TRA PRO OTH (specifty
YYYY M M DD HH
YYYY M M DD HH
Identity Card No.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
Name Plag Service Registration No. Specice Production Cash Quantity
30.Evaluation of offladede by catch (quantity)
species Products Catch Quantity declared Quantity Difference between
from area(s) landed quantity declared and
quantity determined, if any
 31.Catch retained onboard (quantity)
specis Products Catch Quantity declared Quantity Difference between
from area(s) landed quantity declared and
quantity determined, if any
32. examination of logbook(s) and other
documentation
33. compliance with applicable catch
documentation scheme(s)
34. compliance with applicable trade
information scheme(s)
35. type of gear used
36. gear examined in accordance with paragraph(e)
of schedule IV
37. Findings by inspector(s)
38. Apparent infringement(s) noted including reference to relevant legal instrument
39. Comments by the master
40. Action taken
41. Masters signature
42. Inspectors signature
Yes No Comments
Yes No Comments
Yes No Comments
Yes No Comments

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'03'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.03.2015
(Regulation 12)
SCHEDULE   VI
Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) Transshipment declaration
Carrier VesselFishing Vessel
Name of the Vessel and Radio Call Sign : Name of the Vessel and Radio Call Sign :
Flag :Flag :
Flag State License Number : Flag State License Number :
National Register Number, if available : National Register Number, if available :
IOTC Register Number, if available: IOTC Register Number, if available:
Day Month Hour Y earAgent's name  Master's name of LSTV Master's name of Carrier
DepatureFrom
Return to Signature Signature Signature
Transsipment
Indicate the weight in kilograms or the unit used (e. g. box, basket) and the landed weight in kilograms of this unit                             Kilograms
LOCATION  OF  TRANSSIPMENT
SpeciesPort Sea Type of product
WholeGuttedHeadedFilleted
It transshipment effected at sea, Indian Ocean Tuna Commission (IOTC) Observer Name and Signature :
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
04 - 396/2