

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2292$35 - 2022 wf.daia;= ui 09 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2022'08'09
No. 2292/35 -  tuesday,  august 09,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
ThE  INSTITuTE  Of  ENvIRONmENTAL  PROfESSIONALS  SRI  LANkA 
(INCORPORATION)  ACT,  No.  1  Of  2020
(Order under section 7)
rules of the Institute of environmental Professionals sri lanka made by the Council of the Institute of environmental 
Professionals sri lanka under section 7 of the Institute of environmental Professionals sri lanka (Incorporation) act,  
No. 1 of 2020.
 Prof. NiraNjaNie ratNayake,
 President, 
 Institute of environmental Professionals sri lanka.
Colombo,
12th august, 2022.
1a- Pg 5926 - 08 (08/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
2a
Schedule
rules  of  the  Institute  of  environmental  Professionals  sri  lanka
Made uNder seCtION 7(1) Of the INstItute Of  eNvIrONMeNtal PrOfessIONals Of  
srI laNka (INCOrPOratION) aCt, No. 01 Of 2020
the above schedule published in the Government Extraordinary Gazette No. 2259/7 and dated december 20, 2021 is hereby 
amended as follows;
(1) By the repeal of paragraph 4.7 (h) thereof and substitution therefore of the following;
	 (h)	 shall	 prepare	the	Annual	Statement	of	Accounts	and	get	it	certified	by	a	Chartered	Accountant	for	presentation	
at the annual general Meeting (agM) and in the event of any query made by any member, the treasurer shall 
respond to such query at the agM.
(2) By adding following new Sections to Paragraph 12 thereof;
 12.11 Membership of IePsl could be granted to foreign nationals by applying the same eligibility criteria as for 
local Professionals and charging a membership fee of us $ 100 per year in addition to the local membership 
fee for the relevant category of membership. the membership fees may be revised from time to time, subject 
to the approval of the Council.
 12.12 the IePsl  could open a suitable foreign currency account for receiving funds for the above and for any other 
purpose relevant to the objects of the Institute, after obtaining advice from the Central Bank of sri lanka.
(3) By the repeal of paragraph 1.2 of Appendix B I threrof and substitution therefore of the following;
  (a) a  first degree from a recognized university or equivalent institution in biological science, physical science, 
geography, agriculture, engineering, built environment, environment management or any other relevant 
discipline	and	a	minimum	of	five	(05)	years	of	experience	in	an	environmental	related	field	after	obtaining	the	
above	qualification.
	 	 (b)	 A 	first	Degree	from	a	recognized	University	or	equivalent	institution	in	any	discipline	with	a	post	Graduate	
Degree	in	a	field	related	to	the	environment	and	a	minimum	of	three	(03)	years	of	experience	in	a	field	related	
to	the	environment	after	obtaining	the	above	qualification.
	 	 (c)	 A 	first	Degree	from	a	recognized	University	or	equivalent	Institution	in	any	discipline	with	a	Post	Graduate	
Diploma	in	a	field	related	to	the	environment	and	a	minimum	of	four	(04)	years	of	experience	in	a	field	related	
to	the	environment	after	obtaining	the	above	qualification.
	 	 (d)	 A 	first	Degree	of	Professional	Qualification	with	equivalent	academic	content	from	a	recognized	University	
or	institution	and	a	minimum	of	ten	(10)	years	of	experience	in	an	environmental	related	field	after	obtaining	
the	above	qualification.
	 	 (e)	 A 	post	Graduate	Degree	in	a	field	of	environment	from	a	recognized	University	or	equivalent	Institution	
and	a	minimum	of	five	(05)	years	of	experience	in	an	environmental	related	field	after	obtaining	the	above	
qualification.
	 	 (f)	 A 	Post	Graduate	Diploma	in	a	field	of	environment	from	a	reconized	University	or	equivalent	Institution	and	
a	minimum	of	Seven	(07)	years	of	experience	in	an	environmental	related	field	after	obtaining	the	above	
qualification.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
3a
(4) By the repeal of paragraph 2.3 of Appendix B I thereof and substitution therefore of the following;
(a) A	first	 Degree	 from	 a recognized	 University	 or	 equivalent	 Institution	 in	 biological	 science,	 physical	
science, geography, agriculture, engineering, built environment, environment management or any other 
relevant discipline.
(b) A	first	Degree	from	a	recognized	University	or	equivalent	Institution	in	any	discipline	with	a	Post	Graduate 
Degree	in	a	field	related	to	the	environment.
(c) A	first	Degree	from	a	recognized	University	or	equivalent	Institution	in	any	discipline	with	a	Post	Graduate  
Diploma	in	a	field	related	to	the	environment.
(d) A	first	Degree	or	Professional	Qualification	with	equivalent	academic	content	from	a	recognized	University	or 
equivalent	Institution	and	a	minimum	of	five	(05)	years	of	experience	in	an	environmental	related	field	after 
obtaining	the	above	qualification.
(e) A	Post	Graduate	Degree	in	a	field	of	environment	from	a	recognized	University	or	equivalent	institution	and 
less	than	five	(05)	years	of	experience	in	an	environmental	related	field	after	obtaining	the	above	qualification.
(f) A	post	Graduate	Diploma	in	a	field	of	environment	from	a	recoginzed	University	or	equivalent	Institution  
and	a	minimum	of	five	(05)	years	of	experience	in	an	environmental	related	field	after	obtaining	the	above 
qualification.	
eOg 8-0113
PriNteD at tHe DePartMeNt of GoVerNMeNt PriNtiNG,  Sri LaNka.