

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
1
1
wxl 1"657 - 2010 cqks ui 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'06'04
No. 1,657 – FRIDAY, JUNE 04, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 705
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th June, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th May,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
4
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  &  HOME  AFFAIRS
Registrar General’s Department
RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF GRADE II REGISTRAR OF THE REGISTRAR
SERVICE ON SENIORITY AND MERIT - 2009
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Registrar General for the structured interview for Recruitment to the Posts of Grade II Registr ar of
the Registrar Service in the Registrar General’s Department.
01. Conditions of Service.–  Recruitments will be made to the posts of Registrar, Grade II on the general conditions governing
appointments in the public service and on the following conditions.
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable. The selected candidates will be required to contribute to the W. & Orphan
Children’s Fund and must furnish security occasionally decided by the Registrar General. The appointments are subject
to provisions of the Establishments code and Financial Regulations and orders of the Public Service Commission dated
20.02.2009.
(ii) Of ficers in the Public Service will be appointed on an acting capacity for a period of one year.
(iii) All Officers who are appointed to this post will have to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within 3 years.
(iv) The period of service of Public Officers, appointed in an acting capacity will be extended by one year at the discretion
of the Public Service Commission, if they fail to pass the said Efficiency Bar Test within three years from the date of
appointment. If the officer fails to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination within the extended period he will be reverted to
his former post.
(v) On confirmation in his appointment in the Registrar’s Service, an officer selected from the Public Service will cease to be
a member of the former service and will have no right of reversion to that service.
02. Salary Scale.– MN5- 2006A - Rs. 16,720-10x320-11x365-15x450 - Rs. 30,685. P. Ad. C. No. 6/2006(IV).
03. Age Limit.– The upper age limit will not apply to those already in the Public / Provincial Public Service.
04. Educational/Professional Qualifications .– Applicants should have the following qualifications as on 05.07.2010.
04.1 Internal Candidates :
(i) ( a) Officers of Grade Ill of the Registrar’s Service of the Registrar General’s Department who, have passed the
Efficiency Bar Examination and posses a service period of not less than eight years and a satisfactory service
period of 05 years preceding the date of calling for applications.
04.2 Professional and Other Qualifications :
(a) Proficiency in official language
(b) Knowledge of the official works of the Registrar General’s Department
(c) Knowledge in English
05. Scheme of recruitment :
05.1 Internal Candidates :
(a) On seniority and merit.– 25% of the existing vacancies will be filled out of the qualified officers on seniority and
merit. In case such qualified offers are no available all vacancies will be filled on the results of the competitive
examination, Selection will be made from among the qualified grade III officers of the Registrar’s Service after
calling for applications by the Government Gazette notification / paper advertisement and by a structured
interview based on the marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission. The marking scheme is
appended as annex - 01.
06. Method of application :
(a) The application should be in conformity with the specimen appended to this notice and should be prepared on a paper
sized at using both sides. No. 01 to 07 of the application should be in the first page and the rest overleaf. Heading of
the application should be written in English Block Capitals. The application should be filled by the candidate in his
own hand writing. Applications which are incomplete and not in conformity with the specimen application will be
rejected without notice and it may useful to retain a photocopy of the completed application.
Posts – Vacant

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
5
(b) The applications for the interview should be sent under registered cover to the Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, Battaramulla, on or before 05.07.2010. The words “Recruitment to the
Grade II posts in the Registrar’ Service” should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after the this date will not be accepted.
07. Furnishing False Information :
(a) If a candidate is found to be ineligibly, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to or during or after
the examination. If any of the particulars furnished by a Candidate, who is in the Public Service, is found to be false
with his knowledge or if he has willfully suppressed any important fact, he will be liable to dismissal from the Public
Service.
08.
 Any matter not provided for in this notification will be dealt with as dtermined by the Public Service Commission.
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs,
Colombo 07,
....... 05.2010
Annex- 01
M
ARKING SCHEME
01. For seniority - 25 marks
(05 marks each one year exceeding 08 years   of service since confirmation in
Grade III of the Registrar’s Service)
02. Educational Qualifications - 05 marks
Degree      - 03 marks
Diploma   - 02 marks
03. Knowledge of subject matters and rules and regulations relating to the post - 40 marks
1. Rules and regulations relating to marriage, birth, and death registration 10 marks
2. Rules and regulations relating to documents and title registration 10 marks
3. Office management and establishment functions 10 marks
4. Financial management 10 marks
04. Performance evaluation - 20 marks
1. Excellent 20 marks
2. Above average level 15 marks
3. Satisfactory 10 marks
05. Other Qualifications - 10 marks
1. Knowledge in other Language (04 marks for one language) 08 marks
2 Commendations (One for each) 02 marks –––––––––
100 marks
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND HOME AFF AIRS REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEP ARTMENT
Recruitment to the Posts of Grade II of the Registrar Service on Seniority and Merit – 2009
For official use only
1. (i) Last name with initials (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
Ex. : MR/MRS/MISS. SILVA A.B.
(ii) Names denoted by initials (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
National Identity Card No.
2. Full Address :
(i) Permanent (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Official (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
6
(iii) Address to which admission card should be sent (in English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
3. (i) Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––, Date :–––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 05.07.2010
Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––.
4. Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
5. Civil Status : Single - 1
Married - 2 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
6. (i) Date of appointment to the Gr. III of the Registrar Service··:-
(ii) Total period of service as on 05.07.2010
(iii) Date on which the Efficiency Bar Examination was passed
7. Certificate of the candidate :
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief all the information given in this form are true.
I also agree to be bound by any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature before after the examination, if I am found to be
ineligible for this interview and to dismissal from my post without compensation if it is revealed after the appointment. I fur ther
declare that I am subject to abide by the rules and regulations of the Registrar General in relation to conduct of the intervie w.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Attestation
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs/Miss. ..................................... who is Gr. Ill Officer of the Registrar Service of  my office on
................... 2010
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attesting Officer.
Name :––––––––––;
Designation :––––––––––;
Address :––––––––––.
The candidates may get their signature attested by his/  her Head of Department.
06-107
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
OFFICER  CADET  AND  LADY  OFFICER  CADET  V ACANCIES
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following branches:
General Duties Pilot Branch (Male)
Technical Engineering Branch (Male)
Electronics Engineering Branch (Male)
Equipment Branch (Male and Female)
Administrative Branch (Male and Female)
Administrative Regiment Branch (Male and Female)
Operations Air Branch (Male)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
7
2.  Applications are invited from male I female candidates possessing the qualifications given below:-
(a) BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications (Accredited by the University of Kelaniya)
General Duties Pilot I Equipment I Administrative I Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala /Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L examination in Physical/Bio Science/Commerce
Stream (as applicable) in one sitting.
Technical Engineering and Electronics Engineering Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered) and ordinary passes in three subjects at the GCE A/L examination in the Physical Science Stream in one
sitting.
(b) Non Degree Programme Entrant Qualifications  :
General Duties Pilot/Equipment/ Administrative/Administrative Regiment and Operations Air Branches  :
A minimum of six passes at the GCE O/L examination with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting (additional and optional subjects
not considered).
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force.
(a) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Age : Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years as at 01st October, 2010 ;
(c) Height : Male - 5 feet 6 inches and above ;
Female - 5 feet 4 inches and above ;
(d) Weight : BMI = 
Weight (kg) < 25
Height (m)2
(e) Chest : male - 32" (minimum )
(f) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles)
(h) Civil Status :  Candidates must be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst under training and for a
further period of one (01) year from the Date of commissioning.
4. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement of para. 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview
the height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose h ieght
vision and weight are below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered
even though he / she may not have the requisite height provided he / she possesses the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :–
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a Cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as for Other
Ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training Course. On successful completion of training, the duration of which
will depend on the branch, the status allocated on his / her enlistment as an Other Rank will lapse and will receive a
Permanent Commission in the rank of Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be required to undergo training at a place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the period of training as Cadets and thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every Cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, equipment and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a Cadet will be accommodated in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
8
(f) In the event of a Cadet voluntarily terminating his / her candidature for a commission during training, the parent or
guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such Cadet.
(g) If at any time during his / her course a Cadet is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct
or due to causes within his 1 her control to qualify for a commission, his 1 her parent or guardian will be required to
refund to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses incurred on his 1 her training and will be required to enter into a bond to
this effect with the Commander of the Air Force acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage 27 of the application form in respect of sub-paragraphs (f) &
(g) above, and forward them together with the application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter into a bond
subsequently in this form with the Republic of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as Cadets.
(j) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para. 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary Interview and if
successful will be called for the Officer Quality Tests. Candidates who pass the Officer Quality Tests will be called for
Medical Examinations (All candidates selected will be medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force arrangements) and
if applicable Flying Aptitude Tests. Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final
Interview. The required number of candidates per branch will be selected according to merit at these interviews and
tests.
(k) A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He 1 She is provided with furnished accommodation and food.
Batman service will be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
(l) A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to public
servants.
(m) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time.
(n) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements: - The selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions
the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) Consolidated pay rate : The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Officer Cadets and Commissioned Ranks shall be
as follows:
Officer Cadet - Rs.l80,240 p.a
Pilot Officer - Rs.211,800/- p.a
Flying Officer - Rs.275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs.321,660 - 28 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs.352,620 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs.362,100 - 20 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain - Rs.441,060 - 18 x 12,600 - Rs. 667,860- p.a
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance of Rs. 5,250 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service.
(3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 2,400 - per month for those serving in operational areas.
(5) Special enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000 - per month (Rs.100 - will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 10,267.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Officer, spouse & children).
(12) An additional set of railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in Messes to travel from
the Mess to the hometown once a month.
(13) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
9
(14) Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
(15) Married Officers permitted to live - out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
(16) Flying pay for those in the General Duties Pilot Branch.
(17) Rent allowances for married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain & above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities:- Payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to time.
All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows a nd
Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
10. Instructions to Applicats :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own hand writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much details as possible. Applications should be forwarded under
registered cover to : “CHIEF RECRUITING OFFICER, SRI LANKA AIR FORCE, EKALA, KOTUGODA” so as
to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 10
th June 2010. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“APPLICATION FOR CADETSHIP I LADY CADETSHIP IN THE ............................ BRANCH”. Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service I Corporations I Boards I Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department I Corporations I Boards I Civil Establishments and should bear a
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of the education code will not be accepted)
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required for the branch applied for.
(3) Certificates of trade/technical training and I or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from a responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadeting etc.
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection.
12. Selection Interviews etc. :–
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates so selected
will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final selection will
then be made after an interview of those selected candidates by a selection board appointed by the Ministry of
Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. Traveling
or other expenses will not be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview he / she is to produce his / her National Identity Card
issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ..
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his / her testimonial. Any form of canvassing
or attempt to influence in the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
10
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
WDRMJ G OONETILEKE,
Air Chief Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION  FOR  OFFICER  CADET/LADY OFFICER CADET IN THE ................................
BRANCH OF THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
1. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
4. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
5. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
6. Date of Birth :
(Age as at 01st October, 2010) :
Years :–––––––––––––, Months :–––––––––––––, Days :–––––––––––––.
7. Height :–––––––––––––.
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––––.
9. District :–––––––––––––.
10. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
11. G.S. Division :–––––––––––––.
12. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
14. Gender :–––––––––––––.
15. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications obtained :
Name of School/University Type of examination Y ear of examination Subjects passed (including grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other
16. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if applicable) :
Name & address of employer Nature of employment Period of service
From               To
17. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present address
Father
Mother
18. Any special qualification for the post :––––––––––––.
19. Details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated with dates / years etc. and standards/
levels achieved) :––––––––––––.
20. Other achievements of note at School/University or with outside organizations (Give details with dates / years etc.) :–––––– –––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
11
21. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––––––––––.
22. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the outcome
of such applications :––––––––––––.
23. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––––.
24. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the Public Sector / Board / Corporation (including the Central Bank, National
Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of employment :––––––.
25. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
26. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :–
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for Commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
27. Declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of the applicant :
(a) I am the Parent / Guardian of ....................... who is an applicant for a Cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and who has signed
the declaration in Cage 26 of the form of application above.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above named applicant being selected for a course of training for the
following :–
(i) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant voluntarily terminating his / her
candidature for a Commission during his/her period of training, all expenses incurred up to that time by the Republic
of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(ii) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named applicant reported on by the authorities as
being unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her own control) for the issue of a Commission
all the expenses incurred on his/her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of First Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name  :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Second Witness.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :––––––––––––.
06–12

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
12
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 05th of July, 2010 .
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
10th May, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Post and Division Address to which
Secretariat Division for which applications are called applications should be sent
Matara Dikwella Post of Registrar of  Births and deaths in District Secretary/Additional
Pathegama and Marriages (General) in Wellabada Registrar General, District
 Paththuwa and Fourgravets Division Secretariat, Matara
06-19
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  MINOR  EMPLOYEES  OF
THE  PUBLIC  SERVICE  TO  CLASS  III  OF  THE  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSIST ANTS’  SERVICE  –  2009
IT is related to the above examination notice published in the gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.1654 of 14 th
May, 2010.
02.  No. (ii) under para 8.0 of the above examination notice and (a) and (b) of the note 3  under same para are hereby revised in
the following manner.
“8.0 (ii) have completed a continuous, active and a satisfactory service period of 05 years immediately prior to 12.07.2010
and the Head of Department should have certified that.”
“Note - 3 (a) he/she should have earned all the increments during the five years immediately prior to 12.07.2010
(b) he/she should not have suffered any disciplinary punishment during the five year period prior to 12.07.2010"
03.  Moreover, it is here by informed that the closing date for the applications, referred in para “9.0 - (iii)” in the notice, will be
extended up to 12.07.2010.
B.P.P.S. ABEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
19th May, 2010.
06–101

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
13
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.06.2010
14
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2010
JUNE 04.06.2010 Friday — 21.05.2010 Friday 12 noon
11.06.2010 Friday –– 26.05.2010 Wednesday 12 noon
18.06.2010 Friday –– 04.06.2010 Friday 12 noon
24.06.2010 Thursday –– 11.06.2010 Friday 12 noon
JULY 02.07.2010 Friday — 18.06.2010 Friday 12 noon
09.07.2010 Friday –– 24.06.2010 Thursday 12 noon
16.07.2010 Friday –– 02.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
23.07.2010 Friday –– 09.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
30.07.2010 Friday –– 16.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 06.08.2010 Friday — 23.07.2010 Friday 12 noon
13.08.2010 Friday –– 30.07.2010 Thursday 12 noon
20.08.2010 Friday –– 06.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
27.08.2010 Friday –– 13.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.