

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.10.2012
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1782$28 - 2012 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 31 jeks nodod - 2012'10'31
No. 1782/28 - WEDNESDAY,   OCTOBER  31, 2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, NO. 14 OF 2008
Order under Sub-Section (4) of Section 3
BY Virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-Section (4) of  Section 3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of
2008 as amended, I, Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Development, being the Minister in charge of the subjects
of Investment and Tourism, do by this Order declared that, -
1. The Notification which identified the Project to construct, build and operate a Mixed Utility Complex including a
luxury hotel at Fort, Colombo 01 in the Western Province, as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the
aforesaid Act, was pubished in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1765/7 dated 4th July 2012;
2. The approval of the Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in terms of Sub-Section (3) of Section 3 of the
aforesaid Act, to declare that the Project to construct, build and operate a Mixed Utility Complex including a luxury hotel at
Fort, Colombo 01 in the Western province, be a Strategic Development Project;
3. The above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as the “Project to construct, build and
operate a Mixed Utility Complex including a luxury hotel at Fort, Colombo 01 in the Western province” and that the Project
Company is WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited;
4. The aforesaid Project to construct, build and operate a Mixed Utility Complex including a luxury hotel at Fort,
Colombo 01 in the Western Province shall commence commercial operation within sixty (60) months from the date of approval
of the Mixed Use Project as a Strategic Development Project under the said Strategic Development Project Act, No. 14 of 2008
as amended, by a resolution by the Parliament granting the concessions/ exemptions referred to in the Schedule hereto and;
5. The exemptions from the enactments specified in the Schedule to this Order shall apply to the Project Company
subject to the limitations noted therein.
SCHEDULE
(a) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of  2006
(i) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of Income Tax of the
Project Company on the profit and income from the project shall not apply for a period of ten (10) years
(“Tax Exemption Period”). The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be
exempted from income tax during the said Tax Exemption period and one (01) year thereafter.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.10.2012
2A
(ii) The said exemption period to commence from the first year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profits or three (03) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls first.
(iii) After the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period referred to in sub-clause (i) above the profits
and income of the Project Company shall be charged at the rate of the lower of six percentum (6%) or
fifty percentum (50%) of the prevailing tax rate for the hotel industry, for a period of fifteen (15) years
immediately succeeding the last date of the Tax Exemption Period (“Tax Concessionary Period”).
(iv) Provided that after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period and Tax concessionary Period
referred to above, income tax in respect of the profits and income of the Project Company shall be
payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
(v) The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As
You Earn (PAYE) Tax subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum
number of 20 employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of five (05) years from the date
of commencement of commercial operations. The Project Company shall be required to gradually re-
place expatriate staff with local employees on a best efforts basis.
(vi) The recipient shall be fully exempt from the charge of income tax under any provision of the Inland
Revenue Act and the Project Company shall be exempt from the payment of Withholding Tax on the
following.-
(a) interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure;
(b) technical fees to consultants:
(c) management fees up to 3% on gross revenue;
(d) royalty fees up to 1.5% on gross revenue;
(e) marketing fees up to 1.5% on gross revenue;
(f) incentive management fees up to 10% on gross operating profit; and
(g) charges towards reservations made through the Central Reservation System of  ITC Limited/other
service providers of the Project Company. The charges prevailing as on the date of this Agree-
ment for such reservations are in the range of United States Dollars 5-6 per reservation.
(b) The Value Added Tax Act (VAT) No. 14 of 2002
The importation of project related goods and the Local purchases of project related goods and services
during the Mixed Use Project Implementation Period shall be fully exempted from charge and payment
of  Value Added Tax (V AT). The V AT exemption shall be applicable not only for direct suppliers to the
Company/ Project but also for suppliers made by a sub contractor to a contractor as approved by the
Project Company for suppliers to the Company/ Project.
The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as defimed in the V AT
Act, No. 14 of 2002, on the commencement of commercial operations.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The payment and charge of  Port and Aviation Levy (PAL) shall be fully exempted on all items imported
for implementing the project (whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through
contractors) during the Mixed Use Project implementation period.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'31
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 31.10.2012
3A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
(d) Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
The Project Company shall be exempted from the construction industry guarantee fund levy imposed
in relation to the Mixed Use Project.
(e) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all imports of project related items required for the
Mixed Use Project, whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through contractors
provided that the goods are consigned in the name of the Project Company shall be exempted from
customs duty as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka for the purpose of the Mixed Use
Project during the implementation period.
Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, M. P.,
Minister of Economic Development.
Colombo,
On this 30th day of October 2012.
11-623