

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
345
345
wxl 1"543 _ 2008 ud¾;= 28 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'03'28
No. 1,543 – FRIDAY , MARCH 28, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 348
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 349
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th April, 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 19th March, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- The Catalogue of Books printed quarterly in Oct-Dec. 2003, has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
Note. (i) Sri Sumangala Saranaseva Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 15th  February, 2008.
(ii) Marine Pollution Prevention Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka of 15th  February, 2008.
(iii) Sri Lanka Electricity Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka of 22th  February, 2008.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
346
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
347
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations,
Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
348
Posts - Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
Ampara  District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages,
Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births,
Deaths and Marriage Registration Divisions and should be entitled
to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in
the area.
03. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more
than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could
be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as District
Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries
Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given
in the Schedule on or before 25th April, 2008.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 280, Main Street,
Colombo 11,
11th March, 2008.
SCHEDULE
District Division The Division The Address to
of the and the Post for which
Divisional which Applications
Secretary Applications must be sent
01. Ampara Sammanthurai Post of Registrar District Secretary/
of Births and Addi. Registrar
Deaths in General,
Sammanthurai District
West Division Secretariat,
Ampara
02.Ampara Sammanthurai Post of Do.
Registrar of
Births and Deaths
in Sammanthurai
South Division
03-810
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
Ampara  District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim
Marriages, in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Marriage
Registration Divisions and should be entitled to properties and have
acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Muslim males only  can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more
than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could
be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such as District
Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries
Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies and
Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District
Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District Registries.
Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given
in the Schedule on or before 25th April, 2008.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
Colombo 11,
11th March, 2008.
SCHEDULE
District Division The Division The Address to
of the and the Post for which
Divisional which Applications
Secretary Applications must be sent
01.Ampara Addalachchenai Post of Muslim District
Marriage Secretary/
Registrar in Addi. Registrar
Addalachchenai General,
02 Division District
Secretariat,
Ampara
02.Ampara Ampara Post of Muslim Do.
Marriage
Registrar in
Ampara
Town
Division

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
349
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
03.Ampara Sammanthurai Post of Muslim District
Marriage Secretary/
Registrar Addi. Registrar
in Majidpura General,
Division District
Secretariat
Ampara
03-809
RECRUITMENT TO THE TRAINING GRADE OF THE
POST OF RAILWAY GUARD OF THE SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE - SRI LANKA
RAILWAYS
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for
recruitment to the Training Grade of the Post of Railway Guard of
the Dept. of Railways from the candidates having the following
necessary qualifications. Selection of suitable candidates will be on
the results of an open competitive examination conducted by the
Commissioner of Examinations under the supervision of the Sri
Lanka Technological Services Board. The candidates will be informed
of the time, place and date of conducting the examination in due
course.
02. Mode of Application.– The applications should be prepared
by the applicant himself substantially on the specimen application
form given at the end of this notification of the size A4 using both
sides of the paper. Nos. 01 to 08 should appear on the first page
and from No. 09 onwards should be on other sheet.
(i) Applicants who are in Public Sector /Corporations/
Provincial Public Service should forward their applications
through the Heads of their respective Institutions. When
forwarding such applications, the Head of Institution should
certify that the particulars given therein are ture and correct
and that the candidates could be released, in case he is
selected.
(ii) The completed application forms should be sent under
registered cover to reach the General Manager of Railways,
Office of the General Manager of Railways, Colombo 10
on or before 02nd May, 2008 on the top left hand corner of
the envelope containing the application should be written
“Application for Recruitment to the Training Grade of
Guards”. The applications should be complete in all respect.
(iii) L ate applications and applications which do not conform
to the Gazette Notification  will be rejected without prior
notice. Allegations that any application has been lost or
delayed in the post will not be entertained.
03. Salary Scale.– Training Grade of Railway Guards — Rs. 12,920
per month for the first year as per Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006. Monthly salary for the second year will be Rs. 13,040.
Railways Guards - Class II Segment ‘B’
Rs. 14,140 - 10x140—11x150 - 6x210 - 14x290—22,510.
4. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(i) Passed G .C.E. (Advanced Level) Examination in three
science subjects including two subjects - Pure Mathematics
or Applied Maths/Physics in one sitting and G.C.E. (O/L)
Examination in six subjects in  not more than two sittings
with credit passes in Language or Literature, Arithmetic/
Maths and any other subject.
(ii) Only male candidates could apply.
(iii) Applicants should be of excellent character with good
physique.
(iv) Should have a minimum height of 05 ft. 04 inches.
(v) Every applicant should not be less than 18 year and not
more than 45 years of age on the closing date of the
applications. The upper age limit will not apply to those
already in the Government Service and Provincial Service.
05. Method of Recruitment :
(a) The candidates with requisite qualifications specified in
Para. 4 above who score 40% or more marks in each subject
at a competitive examination to be conducted in terms of
public Administration /Circular No. 15/90 will be called for
the interview in order of their merit. (Interview will be
confined only to examine the certificates and no marks will
be given). Recruitment to the Training Grade of Guards
will be made from among those who score highest marks
depending on the availability of existing vacancies only.
(b) Scheme of open competitive    examination and syllabus are
given  below :-
Scheme of Examination :-
(i) Examination will be conducted in all the three media -
Sinhala /Tamil /English.
(ii) A candidate should appear for the competitive exam
only in one language medium.
(iii) There will be two question papers:
(I) Intelligence test - Time: 01 hour - Total marks: 100
(II) T echnological subject - Time: 03 hours - Total
marks: 100
RECRUITMENT OF POLICE CONSTABLES AND
POLICE CONSTABLE DRIVERS FOR THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT (SPECIAL TASK FORCE)
As per the Government Gazette Notification No. 1,530 of 28.12.2007
in connection with the above Recruitment, the closing date of
applications has been extended by 03 months till 28.03.2008, which
was extended by 03 months is further extended till 28.06.2008.
Inspector General of Police.
03-826
District Division The Division The Address to
of the and the Post for which
Divisional which Applications
Secretary Applications must be sent

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
350
Syllabus for the examination :
(i) Intelligence Test - A question paper of multiple choice
type to test the competence of candidates in logical
reasoning, ability to take decisions and analytical thinking.
(ii) Paper on Technology - A paper requiring detailed answers
to test the knowledge on subject matters related to Pure
mathematics/applied Mathematics and Physics of the
standard of G.C.E. (O/L) examination.
Candidates should score 40% or more marks in each subject and
should have qualified in both subjects to be treated as having passed
the examination.
The examination will be conducted in Colombo.
06.  Terms of engagement and conditions of service.
(i) The selected candidates from the Open Competitive
Examination will be recruited to the training grade and they
will be appointed to Class II Segment ‘B’ of the Sri Lanka
Technological Service after passing the examination
conducted at the end of the two year theoretical and
practical training period prescribed in the syllabus.
(ii) The post is permanent and pensionable, Selected candidates
will be required to contribute to the Widows’ and Orphans’
Pension Scheme.
(iii) The selectees are required to confirm to the provisions of
the Establishment Code, Financial Regulations,
Departmental Rules and Regulations and other Rules and
Regulations that may be introduced from time to time by
the Government.
(iv) Selected Candidates should pass vision test required by
the Department.
(v) Sections 10- 12 of Chapter II of the Establishment Code
will apply.
07. Examination Fees:– A non refundable fee of Rs. 250 will be
levied, A money order written in favour of the General Manager of
Railways, Colombo 10, encashable at the Maradana Post Office
(01000) should be attached to the application. No Photostat copies
should be attached other than the original.
08. Certifying the Signature of the Applicant.
The signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal
of a Govt. School or Justice of the Peace or Commissioner of Oaths
or Attorney-at-Law, Commissioned Officer of the Sri Lanka Army,
Navy or Staff Officer of the Government or Provincial Public Service.
The closing date of application is 02nd May, 2008.
L
ALITHASIRI GUNARUWAN,
General Manager of Railways.
File No. 15/1858/2006.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Sri Lanka Railways.
Colombo 10.
Specimen Application form
Application for Recruitment to the Training grade of the post of
Railway Guard of the Sri Lanka Technological Service
 from outside Candidates
District
01. Administrative District of Applicant :–––––––.
02. (a) Name with initials :  (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––.
Name with initials :  (English) :–––––––.
(b) Full name with surname : (Sinhala/Tamil):–––––––.
Full name with surname :  (English)
03. (a) Permanent Residential Address : (Sinhala/Tamil) :–––,
Permanent Residential Address : (English)  :–––,
(b) Address to which admission card should be sent  :–––,
04. (i) Date of Birth  :–––,
(ii) Age as at closing date of application  :–––,
Years:–––––––.  Months:–––––––.
(iii) National Identity Card Number :–––––––.
05. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka By registration
(Mark     in the relevant cage) By descent
06. Ethnic group belonged : (Use ethnic group and code No. in
the relevant cage).
Code No. Ethnic group Ethnic Code
01 Sinhalese group Number
02 Sri Lanka Tamil
03 Muslim
04 Indian Tamil
05 Burgher
06 Malay
07 Others
07. Medium in which the candidate is sitting
(Mark       in the relevant cage).
Sinhala
Tamil
English
08. Educational Qualfications :
I. G.C.E.  (O/L) Examination
Year of exam passed : Language :
Index No: Medium :
First Sitting:

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
351
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
2. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
Year of exam passed : Language :
Index No : Medium :
Second Sitting :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
3. G.C.E. (A/L) Examination
Year of exam passed :
Index No: Medium :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
09. Whether convicted of any charge by a Court of Law :
(Mark in the relevant cage)
Yes
No
If so, give details :
(inclusive of date, case No. offence and punishment.)
10. Height : (bare footed) Feet:–––––– Inches:––––––––
11. Declaration of the Applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate and I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found  to be false or incorrect, I am
liable to be disqualified and dismissed from service without
compensation after the appointment, Money order obtained on
payment of Rupees …………… to the Post Office ………… is
attached hereto .
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––.
12. Certification of Applicant Signature :
I hereby certify that the above applicant Mr..............................
is known to me personally and he placed his signature before me
today.
––––––––––,
Signature of Officer certifying.
Full Name of Officer :–––––––.
Certifying the Signature :–––––––.
Designation :–––––––.
Date :–––––––.
(Use official frank)
13. Recommendation of the Head of Dept/Corporation.
I certify that Mr.  …………… is working in this Dept./
Corporation and that his work and conduct have been satisfactory
and that no disciplinary action is pending against him. He is eligible
to apply for this post in terms of this notification regarding this
appointment and that incase he is selected he could/could not be
released.
––––––––––,
Signature of Authorized Officer of the
Dept./Corporation.
Name :–––––––.
Designation :–––––––.
Address :–––––––.
Date :–––––––.
(Use official frank).
03-783

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
352
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTHCARE  &  NUTRITION
Recruitment for Training of Officers for the Provision of Estate Health Services - 2008
A decision has been taken to recruit for training the following categories of health workers in order to improve the service pr ovision in
estate areas after the integration of the preventive and curative health services of the estate areas into the provincial healt h services.
1. Educational Qualifications.—  It is compulsory to obtain all the educational qualifications in Tamil medium, mentioned below.
The recruitment is done on the results of G. C. E. (O/L) and the results of  G. C. E. (A/L) in 2007 and previous years. The applicants, who
have not submitted their applications properly as per the  gazette  notification No. 1525 published on 23rd November, 2007 should
resubmit their applications.
Post G. C. E. (A/L) Qualificatios G . C. E. (O/L) Qualifications
Dispenser G . C. E. (A/L) Examination G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six
With 3 passes from Science subjects at not more than two
Stream including a credit sittings inclusive of credit
Pass for Chemistry passes for mathematics, Science
Mother Language and one
Other subject
Public Health Inspector G. C. E. (A/L) Examination G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six
(Males only) 3 passes from Science subjects inclusive of English at
Stream including a credit not more than two sittings with
Pass for Biology credit passes for Mathematics,
Science, Mother Language and
One other subject
Public Health Midwives G. C. E. (A/L) Examination G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six
(Females only) 3 passes from any subject subjects at not more than
Stream two sittings with credit passes
for Mathematics, Science,
Mother Language and
One other subject.
2. Recruitment will be made from the Divisional Secretary’s area of the health institution to which the recruits are to be posted.
(i) Recruitment as Dispensers :
District - Badulla - Haputale 02/Welimada 03/Lunugala 01/Bandarawela 02/ Badulla 01/ Hali-Ela 01/ Uva Paranagama
01/ Passara 01
District - Ratnapura - Ayagama 01/ Balangoda 01/ Kahawatta 02/ Godakawela 01/Kolonne 01/Opanayake 01/Nivithigala
01/ Ratnapura 01
District - Kegalle - Deraniyagala 02/Dehi-owita 02/Aranayake 01/Yatiyantota 03
District - Kalutara - Bulathsinhala 02/Milleniya 01/Bandaragama 01
District - Galle - Yakkalamulla 01
District - Nuwara-Eliya - Walapane 03/Kotmale 01/Hanguranketa 01/ Nuwara-Eliya 01
District - Matale - Rattota 01
District - Kandy - Nawalapitiya 01
(ii) Recruitment as Public Health Inspectors :
District - Nuwara-Eliya-Walapane 04/ Ambagamuwa 12/Hanguranketa 01/ Kotmale 04/Nuwara-Eliya 16
District - Kandy - Meda Dumbara 01/ Pasbage Korale 02/Panwila Udapalatha 02/Gangawata Korale 01/Ganga Ihala
01/Galaha 01/Udapalatha 01
District - Matale-Matale 01/Ukuwela 01/Rattota 01/Pallepola 01
District - Badulla - Badulla 01/ Bandarawela 01/Ella 01/Hali-Ela 02/Haputale 02/Haldumulla 01/ Meegahakivula 01/
Passara 02/Uva Paranagama 01/ Welimada 01

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
353
District - Monaragala - Badalkumbura 01/Bibila 01/Monaragala 01
District - Ratnapura - Nivithigala 01/Ratnapura 03/Imbulpe 01/Balangoda 01/Godakawela 01/Kahawatta 03/
Kuruwita 01
District - Kegalle - Yatiyantota 01/Dehi-owita 01/Bulathkohupitiya 01/Deraniyagala 01
District - Kalutara - Agalawatta 01/Bulathsinhala 01/ Mathugama 01/Horana 01
District - Galle - Nagoda 01
District - Matara  - Kotapola 01
(iii) Recruitment as Public Health Midwives :
District - Nuwara-Eliya-Walapane 07/ Ambagamuwa 40/Hanguranketa 02/ Kotmale 09/Nuwara-Eliya 35
District - Kandy - Meda Dumbara 03/ Patha Hewaheta 01/Udu Dumbara 01/Pasbage Korale 05/Panwila Udapalatha
01/ Gangawata Korale 01/Udunuwara 01/ Galaha 04/ Udapalatha 05/Yatinuwara 01
District - Matale-Matale 02/Ukuwela 03/Pallepola  02/Ambanganga 02/Galewela 01
District - Badulla - Ella 02/ Hali-Ela 06/ Haputale 01/Haldummulla 01/ Meegahakivula 02/Passara 06/Uva Paranagama
05/Welimada 02
District - Monaragala - Badalkumbura  - 03 /Bibile  03/Monaragala 05
District - Ratnapura  - Elapatha 01/Kalawana 01/Ratnapura 02/Kolonne 01/Imbulpe 03/Balangoda 03/Godakawela
01/Kahawatta 03
District - Kegalle - Kegalle 01/Yatiyantota 03/Dehi-owita 04 /Warakapola 01/Bulathkohupitiya 03/
Deraniyagala 01
District - Colombo - Padukka 01/Hanwella 01
District - Galle - Nagoda 03/Karandeniya 01
District - Matara  - Kotapola 01
District - Kurunegala - Polgahawela 01/Ridigama 01
3. Other Qualifications:
(i) Should be not less than 18 and not more than 30 years of age as at 21st April 2008
(ii) Should agree to serve in any part of the island
(iii) Should be physically fit and healthy
(iv) Should be a resident for a period of 03 years within the district from which the applicant submit his/her application.
(v) Height of the applicants for the post of Public Health Midwife should be more than 4ft. and 10 inches.
4. Method of Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared as per form of application attached to this notice. Applicant should affix stamps to the
value of Rs. 200 on the “Stamps Cage” in the application and cancel them by placing his/her signature.
(ii) The signature of the applicant should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Education Service/
Government Accountants Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peace /Attorney-at-Law or by a
Government Officer drawing a salary not less than Rs. 124,080 per annum.
(iii) The applications perfected should be sent under registered cover to reach the Director (Administration) 02, Ministry of
Healthcare & Nutrition, “Suwasiripaya”, 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10. on or
before, 21st April 2008. The term “Recruitment of Trainees for the Posts in the Estate Health Services” should be
written on the left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
5. Applications will not be acknowledged.
6. Applications received after due date will be rejected.
7. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notice will be rejected.
8. Applicants who have fulfilled educational and other qualifications above, will be called for interviews. The applicants should
submit originals of the following documents at the interviews. The Candidature of those candidates who fail to submit originals  of the
relevant documents at the interview will be cancelled.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
354
(a) Certificate of Birth
(b) Originals of the educational certificates, and in the absence of originals, the results sheet issued to external candidates or
the original of the letter issued to the applicant by the Principal of the school from which the applicant sit for the
examination.
(c) Certificate issued by the Department of Examinations indicating the GCE (A/L) Examination marks level.
(d) National Identity Card/Passport/Driving License
(e) Certified copies of the V oters Lists 2003, 2004, 2005 to confirm the residence of applicant within the district for a period
of 03 years. If the name of the applicant is not available and in the V oters List, his/her parents names should be available
and such applicants should submit the Grama Seva Certificate countersigned by the Divisional Secretary in addition to
the certified copies of the V oters Lists.
9. Scheme of Training
i. Selected candidates will be admitted to the respective training schools of the training courses.
ii. The trainees will be subject to the rules and regulations in force within the Training Schools and other regulations
enforced from time to time by the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
iii. The training of these trainees who fail in the examinations or whose work and conduct is unsatisfactory or who fail to
comply with the conditions of examination and leave in their schools of training during the period of training is liable to
be stopped at any time without payment of any compensation given an appointment after completion of training shall
serve the Department of Health Services for a minimum of 10 years period. In the event he/she withdraws from the
training or leaves the training or had to be discontinued from the training as per paragraph (iii) above during the period of
training, he/she shall refund to the Department the expenditure incurred for the payment of allowances and other
expenses born by the Government during the period of his/her training. Otherwise, action will be taken to recover such
expenses incurred by the Department.
10. Terms of Engagement.-  The Department is not bound to grant permanent appointments at the end of the training. The
trainees who succeed in the final examination will be appointed  by the department to the grade III of the relevant post in the  selected
districts based on their merits at the end of the training.
11. When filling in applications the educational and other qualifications should be entered with due care. If the certificates
furnished by applicant prove are to be false or incorrect after recruitment for training or after giving appointment, action wi ll be taken to
discontinue that applicant from the training or to dismiss him or her from the service and also to blacklist their names which would prevent
them from re-entering to the Government Service.
12. The selected candidates should undergo a medical examination, to assure their physical fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and those who are proved unfit in the said medical examination will become disqualified to continue with their training.
13. All the officers so recruited will be subject to the provisions of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka, circulars enforced by the Department of Health Services, other rules and regulations and orders enacted from time  to time
by the Government.
14. The decision of the Secretary Health will be the final in respect of any issue arising outside this guidlined mentioned in this
Gazette  notification.
Dr. ATHULA KAHANDALIYANAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare & Nutrition.
Ministry of Healthcare & Nutrition,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
13th March, 2008.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'03'28
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2008
355
APPLICATION
Recruitment for the Training of...........................................2008
1.(a) Name with Initials (in block capitals):——.
 (b) Name in full  (in block capitals):——.
2. Postal Address (in block capitals):——.
3. (i) Permanent Address (in block capitals):——.
(ii) District:——.
(iii) Are you a permanent Resident in the District?
Yes/No:––––.
(iv) If yes, how long? :——.
4. Date of Birth:
Year:——. Month:——. Day:——.
Age as at:——. 2008 years    Months:——.    Days:——.
5. Whether Male or Femal
(Mark “     ” in the relevant cage)
Male
Female
6. Height:——.     ft. :——.       inches:——.
7.  Are you a Citizen of Sri Lanka
(mark “     ”  in the relevant cage)
Yes
No
8. National Identity Card No. :——.
9. Marital Status:——.
10. Educational Qualifications:
(a) General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
Examination:
(Science subject only) (please attache copy of mark list)
District appeared for this Examination
Year :——. Index No. :——. Z Score: ——.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(b) General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
Examination:
First Sitting
Year :——. Index No. :——.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
Second  Sitting
Year :——. Index No. :——.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 7.
2. 8.
3. 9.
4. 10.
5. 11.
6. 12.
11. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any charge?
(Mark “     ” in the relevant cage)
Yes
No
If ‘Yes” please furnish details:............
12. Certificate of Applicant:
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge
and I am not undergoing any fulltime course at present.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein
are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be
disqualified before selection and to dismissal without
compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
selection.
“Stamp Cage”
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant
Date:––––––.
13. Attestation:
I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr/Mrs./Miss.....................
is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in
my presence on this day of .........................2008
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
With official seal.
Date:––––––––.
Details of Attester;
Full Name:––––––––.
Designation:––––––––.
Address:––––––––.
03-880
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.