

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2385$03 - 2024 uehs ui 20 jeks i`ÿod - 2024.05.20
No. 2385/03  -  moNday,   may   20, 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices
1a- G 41961 - 24 (05/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CENTRAL  BANk  Of  SRI  LANkA  ACT, No. 16 Of 2023
Rules made under section 15 (11) of the Central Bank of sri lanka act, No. 16 of 2023.
   P. NaNdalal WeerasiNghe,
   Chairman of the Governing Board and
   Governor of the Central Bank of sri lanka.
   
Central Bank of sri lanka,
Colombo.
17th may, 2024.
RuLES  fOR  ThE  APPOINTmENT  Of  DEPuTY  GOvERNORS  AND  DESIGNATION  Of  
ThE SENIOR  DEPuTY  GOvERNOR  Of  ThE  CENTRAL  BANk  Of SRI LANkA
 1. These Rules shall be cited as the “Rules for the appointment of deputy Governors and designation of the senior 
deputy Governor of the Central Bank of sri lanka, No. 01 of 2024”.
 2. The Governing Board of the Central Bank of sri lanka, acting in terms of the provisions of section 15 (11) of the 
Central Bank of sri lanka act, No. 16 of 2023 (hereinafter referred to as “the act”), hereby issues Rules in respect 
of the appointment of deputy Governors and the designation of the senior deputy Governor of the Central Bank of 
sri lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Central Bank”).

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'05'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.05.2024
2a
 3. approved cadre of the deputy Governors and the designation of the senior deputy Governor shall be decided in 
terms of section 15 (8) of the act.
 4. When any position of the deputy Governor falls vacant, expressions of Interest (eoIs) shall be called by the director 
of the Human Resources department of the Central Bank for the position of the deputy Governor, with the approval 
of the Governing Board.
 5. all assistant Governors who are in the service of the Central Bank at the time of calling eoIs, preferably with a 
minimum of two years service period in the position of assistant Governor, shall be eligible to apply for the position 
of the deputy Governor.
 6. The selection shall be by an interview conducted by a panel chaired by the Governor and consisting of at least two 
thirds of the appointed members of the Governing Board and a member from the monetary Policy Board (who is not 
an appointed member of the Governing Board), at the time of conducting the interviews.
 7. The candidates shall be assessed by the interview panel based on an evaluation criteria including seniority, work related 
experience and career records, suitability to the post (leadership qualities, personal attributes and communication 
skills) and candidate’s vision for the Bank and the country. director of the Human Resources department shall 
inform the candidates of the aforesaid attributes/ assessment criteria by way of an internal Circular.
	 8.	 The	Governing	Board	shall	make	its	recommendation	on	the	most	suitable	officer	for	the	appointment	to	the	post	
of	Deputy	Governor	along	with	all	relevant	particulars	of	the	recommended	officer	to	the	Minister	in	charge	of	the	
subject of Finance for his approval.
 9. The Governing Board shall recommend the name of the most senior deputy Governor to the minister in charge of the 
subject of Finance, for the designation as the senior deputy Governor of the Central Bank at least seven (7) working 
days prior to the post of the senior deputy Governor of the Central Bank becomes vacant.
 10. In an instance where the post of the senior deputy Governor of the Central Bank becomes vacant unanticipatedly, 
the recommendation as referred to in Rule 9 shall be made within three (3) working days from the date on which such 
post becomes vacant.
eoG 05 - 0148
PriNTed a T The deP ar TMeNT OF gOVerNMeNT PriNTiNg,  sri laNKa.