

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2390$18 - 2024 cqks ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2024.06.28
No. 2390/18  -  friday,   juNe  28,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - PG 6757 - 604 (06/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.B 9/2016 (iii)
THE  NATIONAL  MEDICINES  REGULATORY  AUTHORITY  ACT,  No.  5  OF  2015
reGuLaTiONS made by the Minister of Health under section 142 read with subsection (4) of section 118 of the National 
Medicines Regulatory Authority Act, No. 5 of 2015 in consultation with the Pricing Committee, Consumer Affairs Authority 
established under the provisions of the Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003 and all stakeholders and taking into 
consideration all other relevant factors including the provisions of the Consumer Affairs Authority Act, No. 9 of 2003.
 dr. Ramesh Pathirana,
 Minister of Health.
Colombo,
26th of june, 2024.
Regulations
1.  These regulations may be cited as the Medicines (Pricing Mechanism for determination of maximum retail price 
for a dosage form and a strength of a particular medicine) regulations, No.  01 of 2024.
2.  The object of these regulations shall be to establish a pricing mechanism for a dosage form and a strength of a 
particular medicine in order to ensure transparency and fairness.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.06.2024
2a
3. (1) The maximum retail price of a dosage form and a strength of a particular medicine shall be determined by-
 (a)  using an internationally recognized information portal for identifying the market share by value of different 
brands or Generic Names of drug formulations; and
 (b)  verifying retail prices of the relevant dosage form and a strength of a particular medicine from retail 
pharmacies of different parts of the island and information provided by the State Pharmaceutical Corporation 
(SPC).
(2) The maximum retail price of a dosage form and a strength of a particular medicine shall be obtained by 
calculating the median of retail prices of all versions of brands and Generic Names of such dosage form and a strength 
of a particular medicine including originator of that particular drug dosage from and strength cumulatively having eighty 
pacentage (80%) or more of the market share by value.
4. The maximum retail price of a dosage form and a strength of a particular medicine shall be calculated according 
to the following pricing mechanism- 
 (a) arranging of all the retail prices of all versions of brands and Generic Names of dosage form and a strength 
of a particular medicine including originator of such medicine having eighty percentage (80%) or more of the 
market share by value, in ascending order; and
 (b) upon the arrangement of retail prices as referred to in paragraph (a), the median retail price shall be determined 
as below-
 (i) if the product has an odd number of all available brands (originator plus generic) versions (n), the 
median retail price shall be considered as the value at position (n+1)/ 2 ; or
 (ii) if the product has an even number of all available brands (originator plus generic) versions (n), the 
median retail price shall be considered by averaging the values at positions n/2 and (n/2) +1 .
 (c) for the purpose of determining the median retail price under sub paragraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph (b) “n” 
shall be considered as the total number of all available branded (originator plus generic) versions of that 
particular drug formulation cumulatively having eighty percentage (80%) or more of the market share by 
value.  
5.The maximum retail price of a dosage form and strength of a particular medicine calculated according to the 
above pricing mechanism, shall be published in the Gazette.
6. Any person who contravenes the provisions of these regulations shall commit an offence under these regulations 
and shall be triable under section 131 of the act.
7. for the purpose of these regulations –
“act” means the National Medicines regulatory authority act, No. 5 of 2015;
“brand” means a name, term, design, symbol, trademark or any other feature that identifies one seller’s drug
. ” . 
as distinct from those of other sellers;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.06.2024
3a
PriNTed a T THe deP ar TMeNT Of GOVerNMeNT PriNTiNG,  Sri LaNKa.
“Generic version of a medicine” means a formulation which having,
 (i) the same pharmaceutical form;
 (ii)  bioequivalent;
 (iii) the same safety and efficacy properties
“market share by value” means the ratio of domestic sales in value on the basis of moving annual turnover of 
a brand or a generic version of a medicine in a calendar year and the sum of the total domestic value in 
Calendar year of all brands and generic versions of such medicine sold in the domestic market having 
the same strength and dosage form;
“retail price” means the ceiling price or the retail price plus taxes and duties as applicable, at which the drug 
shall be sold to the ultimate consumer and where such price is mentioned on the pack;
eOG  06  -  0176