

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
INSTITUTE  OF  SRI  LANKA  PROFESSIONAL
PSYCHO  SOCIAL  WORK  (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 21]
————————
Presented by the Hon. Piyal Nishantha De Silva, M. P. for Kalutara District
on 06th November, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on October 12, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho Social Work
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-

<!-- page 2 -->

1Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Preamble.
2—PL 009262— 300 (10/2015)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF SRI LANKA
PROFESSIONAL PSYCHO SOCIAL WORK
WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Institute
of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho Social Work” was
established in Sri Lanka by a group of dedicated
professionals in the field of Psycho Social Work for the
purpose of introducing and promoting professionalism
among those engaged in the said field and maintaining the
highest professional standards among the professional
psycho social work fraternity:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute was registered under
Section 5 (2) of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations
(Registration & Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 as amended
by Act, No. 8 of 1998 on the Thirty First day of October Two
Thousand and Seven:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute was recognized and
registered under bearing No. P20/0052 as a Training Institute
by the Tertiary and Vocational Commission of Sri Lanka
under Tertiary Education and Vocational Act, No. 20 of
1990 and Government Gazette No. 887/8 dated  07. 09. 1995:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has resolved by special
resolution that the Institute be incorporated by an act of
Parliament, for the general advancement of the profession of
Psycho Social Work and for the purpose of effectually
carrying out its objects according to the Articles of the
Constitution agreed to by its member:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:

<!-- page 3 -->

Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
30
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of Sri Lanka
Professional Psycho Social Work (Incorporation)Act,
No.    of 2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho Social Work
(hereinafter referred to as “the Institute”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred
to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession under
the name and style of the “Institute of Sri Lanka Professional
Psycho Social Work”, and by that name may sue and be
sued with full power and authority to have and use a common
seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:
(a) to upgrade the standard of qualitative psycho social
work and to promote, foster and safe guard the
professional ethics, respect, rights, powers and
privileges of members engaged in psycho social
work profession;
(b) to introduce new psycho social strategies in areas
of psycho social professional education, training,
research and publication, which are necessary to
improve knowledge, skills and attitudes of
professional psycho social work and thereby
develop and strengthen the community;
(c) to promote and conduct social development
projects and programs and render assistance to
introduce new social principles thereon;
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Institute of
Sri Lanka
Professional
Psycho
Social Work.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(d) to until all members engaged in psycho social
mission in Sri Lanka into a single vital body capable
of playing an important role in the promulgation of
professional and ethical standards for the practice
of professional psycho social work;
(e) to foster cooperation and friendliness with the
members of the Institute and also with different
allied professions and organizations for the best
interest of the enhancement of public social welfare;
(f) to provide up to-date and relevant information to
potential psycho social workers to help them make
the best informed and considered choice with regard
to professional psycho social work;
(g) to promote and safeguard the professional interest,
rights, powers and privileges of the members;
(h) to prepare and maintain a register of practitioners
engage in professional psycho social work;
(i) to initiate for legislation and promulgation of lawful
orders intended to increase the serviceability of the
psycho social work profession as well as safeguard
and protect its inherent rights and obligations to
society;
(j) to provide members with information on career
updates and job opportunities within and outside
Sri Lanka;
(k) to educate the community about what professional
psycho social work is, and what makes it unique,
and comprehensive system of Social Service;
(l) to provide  Members with a platform for networking
and co-ordinate events which facilitate interaction
amongst Members from all over Sri Lanka and
outside Sri Lanka;

<!-- page 5 -->

Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
(m) to provide opportunities and facilities for the
Members to undertake research, projects and other
such work and to further strengthen the profession
of professional psycho social work;
(n) to introduce general standards of professional
conduct and practice for professional psycho social
work and to ensure the maintenance of such
standards in their professional activities;
(o) to enter into agreements with the Government and
its subsidiaries with a view to promoting all or any
of the objects of the Corporation and promoting
such rights, privileges and concessions that is
appropriate for a professional Institute;
(p) to create opportunities for government and
government approved Non-Governmental Institutes
to receive the professional and specialized services
from the members of our Institute for social and
community development projects through psycho
social work;
(q) to introduce and conduct standardized workshops,
courses, seminars, projects and examinations for
those keen in professional psycho social work and
to award certificates to those who reached the
required levels;
(r) to introduce new social principles in all social
development projects and programmes;
(s) to take any other measure that may be necessary for
the attainment of all or any of the objects of the
corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
(a) raise fund and receive grants, gifts or donations in
cash or kind and solicit subscriptions in Sri Lanka
or abroad;
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
(b) acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, sell or otherwise dispose of,
any movable or immovable property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation;
(c) open, operate and close bank accounts and borrow
or raise money with or without security;
(d) invest any funds not immediately required for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner as the
Executive Council duly elected under section 5
may deem fit;
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons;
(f) levy fees for services provided by the Corporation;
(g) levy such fee as may be determined by the
Corporation for the re-admission of a person as a
member of the Corporation;
(h) appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries allowances and gratuities as
may be determined by the Corporation;
(i) perform and execute all other acts and things as are
necessary or expedient for the attainment of the
objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vest in the Executive Council consisting of the office bearers
and such other persons as may be provided for in such rules
and elected in accordance therewith.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
6
(2) The first Executive Council of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Executive Council of the
Institute holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
6. The Executive Council shall maintain a register of
members in which every person who on the day preceding
the date of commencement of this Act is a member of the
Institution and every person duly admitted as a member of
the Corporation shall have his name inscribed.
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by the majority votes of
the members present and voting, to make rules, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by each
class of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members;
(b) election of the Council, resignation or removal from,
or vacation of, office of office bearers and powers,
duties and conduct of the Council;
(c) powers, duties and functions of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Corporation and their
appointment, dismissal and termination;
(d) procedure relating to the summoning and holding
of meetings of the Council, and the Corporation
and any sub-committee thereof, including the
quorum therefore and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) qualification and disqualification for membership
in the Corporation and in the Council;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
Register of
Members.
Rules of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation of the attainment of its objects.
(2) The Articles of the Institute in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall, in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, be deemed to be the rules of the
Corporation and may be amended, altered, added to or
rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as a rule made
under this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being, of the Corporation.
8. (1) With effect from the date of commencement of
this Act—
(a) all property, movable or immovable, of the Institute;
(b) all rights, powers, privileges and interests of the
Institute and all the liabilities of the Institute;
(c) all  books, accounts and documents of the Institute;
shall vest absolutely in the Corporation.
(2) With effect from the date of commencement of
this Act and without prejudice to the generality of
subsection (1)—
(a) all debts due to and subscriptions and fees payable
to the Institute shall be paid to the Corporation;
(b) all liabilities of the Institute subsisting on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be deemed to be the liabilities of
the Corporation;
(c) all  officers and servants of the Institute on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be deemed to be officers and
servants of the Corporation;
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
8
(d) all contracts and agreements entered into for the
purposes of the Institute and subsisting on the day
immediately preceding date of commencement of
this Act shall be deemed to be contracts and
agreements entered into by the Corporation.
(e) all actions and legal proceedings instituted by or
against the Institute and  pending on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act shall be continued and enforced as legal
proceedings instituted by, or against, the
Corporation.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and it
shall consist of all moneys received by way of gifts,
testamentary dispositions, grants, donations, contributions,
or fees in cash or kind.
(2) All moneys received shall be deposited in the name of
the Corporation in one or more banks and be invested in any
suitable manner to achieve the objects of the Corporation as
may be decided by the Council.
(3) All expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the
excise, performance and discharge of the powers, duties and
functions of the Corporation shall be paid out of the fund of
the Corporation.
10. (1) The Corporation shall cause proper books of
accounts to be kept of income and expenditure, assets and
liabilities and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by a qualified auditor
as may be determined by the Executive Council.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid or discharged by the Corporation, and all debts
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
Audit.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Institute.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
due to, and subscription and fees  payable to, the Institute
on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
12. The Corporation shall have the power to appoint
any committee and to take such other steps as may be found
necessary, from time to time, for the maintenance of
professional standards and discipline among its members.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever ,except in the presence of the
Secretary or a member of the Council as may be duly
authorized by the Council and another member of the Council
who shall sign their names on the instrument in taken of
their presence, and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
14. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation,
or for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable  by
him to the Corporation.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or any other persons except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by from or under them.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Power to
appoint
Committees.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 11 -->

Institute of Sri Lanka Professional Psycho
Social Work (Incorporation)
10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .