

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)
ACT, No. 27 OF 2013
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 20th June, 2013]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 5.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 21, 2013

<!-- page 2 -->

1Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No.27 of 2013
2—PL 007295—4,090 (06/2013)
[Certified on 20th June, 2013]
L.D.—O. 32/2013.
AN  ACT  TO  MAKE SPECIAL PROVISION TO EXEMPT INTERNALLY
DISPLACED  PERSONS  FROM CERTAIN  REQUIREMENTS  OF THE
REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS ACT, NO. 44 OF 1980; AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS certain persons have been internally displaced
as a result of any actions of a terrorist militant or other group
during the recent past:
AND WHEREAS the State has formulated a policy to enable
internally displaced persons and their children eligible to
vote to exercise their right to franchise in the electoral district
in which their permanent places of residence were situated
prior to being internally displaced:
AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to make
special legal provision in order to give effect to such policy:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Registration of Electors
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 27 of 2013.
2. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980, any citizen of
Sri Lanka—
(a) who is or had been an internally displaced person;
(b) whose name appeared in the register of electors for
any electoral district in the Northern Province or
Eastern Province for any year, until the end of the
year 2009; and
(c) whose name has not been entered in any register in
operation subsequent to the year 2009,
Preamble.
Short title.
Internally
displaced
persons eligible
to be registered.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No.27 of 2013
shall on proof of the matters specified in paragraphs (a), (b)
and (c) and on production of a certificate issued by the Grama
Niladhari of the area in which he is presently residing, to the
effect that he is or he had been an internally displaced person,
be entitled to apply to the registering officer of the electoral
district within which he was permanently resident prior to
May 18, 2009, to be registered in the register of electors of
such electoral district.
(2) The application referred to in subsection (1), shall be
made on or before the date specified by the Commissioner of
Elections by notice published in the Gazette.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), the
entitlement granted under that subsection shall be extended
to the children of a citizen referred to in subsection (1) —
(a) who had not attained the age of eighteen years on
the date on which such citizen became an internally
displaced person and have attained the age of
eighteen years or more on the date on which the
revision commenced in respect of the register in
operation, at the time in which the application is
made;
(b) who were born after such citizen became an
internally displaced person and have attained the
age of eighteen years or more on the date on which
the revision commenced in respect of the register in
operation, at the time in which the application is
made ; and
(c) whose name has not been entered in any register in
operation subsequent to the year 2009,
on production of the birth certificate of such child sought to
be registered and a certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari
of the area in which he is presently residing on proof of the
matters specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) and (c) above.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No.27 of 2013
3. (1) The registering officer shall prepare a list of names
of persons referred to in section 2 and shall give notice in the
Gazette and in at least one newspaper each in the Sinhalese,
English and Tamil languages that such list has been completed
and is open for inspection at all reasonable hours of the day
at the office of the registering officer.
(2) (a) Any person who has applied to be registered in any
register of electors for any electoral district in the Northern
Province or Eastern Province and whose name has not
appeared in the list referred to in subsection (1), may appeal
in writing to the registering officer within one week of the
notice published in the Gazette.
(b) The provisions of subsection (8) to (16) of section 14
of the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall,
mutatis mutandis , apply to objections and appeals against
decisions of the registering officer.
(c) If upon such appeal and inquiry, the registering officer
decides not to include the name of such appellant in the
Supplementary Register referred to in section 4, the aggrieved
appellant may appeal to the revising officer within one week
of the decision of the registering offecer and the provisions
of subsection (2) to (5)  of section 15 of the Registration of
Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980 shall mutatis mutandis apply to
an appeal made under this paragraph.
4. The registering officer of each Electoral District shall
prepare and certify a Supplementary Register containing
the names of the persons whose names appear in the list
prepared under section 3 after inquiry and adjudication if
any, and finalize such Register in terms of that section:
Provided that, the registering officer may certify the
Supplementary Register during the pendency of an appeal
to the revising officer and shall thereafter enter in, or expunge
from, such Register, the name of any person in accordance
with the decision of the revising officer on the determination
of such appeal.
List of Claims.
Supplementary
Register.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No.27 of 2013
5. (1) No person whose name appears in the
Supplementary Register shall be entitled to have his name
entered in any other register of electors, notwithstanding
that  he may be qualified to have his name entered in two or
more registers.
(2) No perosn shall be entitled to have his name entered
more than once in the same register, notwithstanding that he
may be qualified to have his name so entered.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, if a person
whose name appears in the Supplementary Register has his
name appearing in any other register of electors and uses his
vote in two or more electoral districts, he shall be guilty of
an offence and shall on conviction before a Magistrate be
liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or
to a fine not exceeding Rupees One Hundred Thousand or
to both such imprisonment and fine.
(4) Any person referred to in section 2, who furnishes
false information or forged documents for any purpose
referred to in this Act,  shall be guilty of an offence and shall
on conviction before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding
Rupees fifty thousand or to both such imprisonment and
fine.
6. (1) This Act shall be in operation for a period of two
years commencing from the date of operation of this Act.
(2) The Minister may, at any time within one month prior
to the expiration of the period of operation of this Act, by
Order published in the Gazette, extend for a further period,
the operation of the Act, so however that the aggregate
period of any one extension shall not exceed two years from
the date of the extension so granted.
(3) The Order made under subsection (2) shall be operative
when the signature of the Minister is affixed thereto and
every such Order shall be published in the Gazette.
Period of
operation of the
Act and
extension
thereof.
Offences.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No.27 of 2013
(4) Every Order made under subsection (2) shall be placed
before Parliament for its approval within a period of three
months from the date of publication of such Order in the
Gazette.
(5) A notification specifying the date on which
Parliament has approved the Order shall be published in the
Gazette.
7.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
8. In this Act—
“Commissioner of Elections” has the same meaning
as in the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of
1980;
“internally displaced person” means a citizen of Sri
Lanka who was permanently resident in the
Northern Province or Eastern Province and who
was forced or obliged to leave his residence at
any time prior to May 18, 2009, as a result of any
action of a terrorist militant or other group, and
currently resides in Sri Lanka outside his original
place of residence in the Northern Province or
Eastern Province or had re-settled in his original
place of residence subsequent to the date on
which the revision of the register of electors for
the year 2012 commenced ;
“registering officer” has the same meaning as in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980;
“register in operation” has the same meaning as in
the Registration of Electors Act No. 44 of 1980;
“revising officer” has the same meaning as in the
Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980.
Interpretation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Registration of Electors (Special Provisions)
Act, No.27 of 2013
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .