

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1992$18 - 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 08 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2016'11'08
No. 1992/18 -  TUESDAY,  NOVEMBER  08,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No. 15  OF  1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the "Institut e"), the
Institute has adopted the Amendments to SLFRSs (Amendments to LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows and Amendments to LKAS 12
Income Taxes) with effect from 01st January, 2017, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing
Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Amendments shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the
first day of January Two Thousand Seventeen.
 Earlier application is permitted.
By Order of the Council,
ARUNA ALWIS,
 Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
08th November, 2016
N.B.-– Sinhala and Tamil versions of this Gazette extraordinary will be published seperately.
PG 3307 - (2016/11)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
Amendments to SLFRSs (Amendments to LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows  and 
Amendments to LKAS 12 Income Taxes) effective from 01st January 2017 
 
1. Disclosure Initiative: Amendments to LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows  
 
2. Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses: Amendments to LKAS 12  Income Taxes  
 
Disclosure Initiative Amendments to LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows 
 
Paragraphs 44A–44E and the related heading is added. Paragraph 60 is also added. 
 
Changes in liabilities arising from financing activities 
 
44A  An entity shall provide disclosures that enable users of financial statements to evaluate changes in 
liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows and non-
cash changes. 
 
44B  To the extent necessary to satisfy the requirement in paragraph 44A, an entity shall disclose the following 
changes in liabilities arising from financing activities: 
 
(a) changes from financing cash flows; 
 
(b) changes arising from obtaining or losing control of subsidiaries or other businesses; 
 
(c) the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates; 
 
(d) changes in fair values; and 
 
(e) other changes. 
 
44C  Liabilities arising from financing activities are liabilities for which cash flows were, or future cash flows 
will be, classified in the statement of cash flows as cash flows from financing activities. In addition, the 
disclosure requirement in paragraph 44A also applies to changes in financial assets (for example, assets 
that hedge liabilities arising from financing activities) if cash flows from those financial assets were, 
or future cash flows will be, included in cash flows from financing activities. 
 
44D  One way to fulfil the disclosure requirement in paragraph 44A is by providing a reconciliation 
between the opening and closing balances in the statement of financial position for liabilities arising from 
financing activities, including the changes identified in paragraph 44B. Where an entity discloses 
such a reconciliation, it shall provide sufficient information to enable users of the financial statements to 
link items included in the reconciliation to the statement of financial position and the statement of cash 
flows. 
 
44E  If an entity provides the disclosure required by paragraph 44A in combination with disclosures of changes 
in other assets and liabilities, it shall disclose the changes in liabilities arising from financing ac tivities 
separately from changes in those other assets and liabilities. 
 
Effective date 
 
... 
 
60  Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 7), issued in September 2016, added paragraphs 44A– 44E. An 
entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2017. Ear lier 
application is permitted. When the e ntity first applies t hose a mendments, it is not  required to pro vide 
comparative information for preceding periods. 
 
Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (Amendments to LKAS 12 

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      3A  
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
Income Taxes) 
 
Paragraph 29 is amended and paragraphs 27A, 29A and 98G are added. An example following paragraph 26 is 
also added. New text is underlined. Paragraphs 24, 26(d), 27 and 28 have not been amended but are included for 
ease of reference. 
 
Deductible temporary differences 
 
24 A deferred tax asset shall be recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable 
that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary difference can be utilised, unless 
the deferred tax asset arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that: 
 
(a) is not a business combination; and 
 
(b) at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit (tax loss). 
 
However, for deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, branches 
and associates, and interests in joint arrangements, a deferred tax asset shall be recog nised in 
accordance with paragraph 44. 
… 
 
26 The following are examples of deductible temporary differences that result in deferred tax assets: 
(a) … 
 
(d) certain assets may be carried at fair value, or may be revalued, without an equivalent adjustment being 
made for tax purposes (see paragraph 20). A deductible temporary difference arises if the tax base of the 
asset exceeds its carrying amount. 
 
 
Example illustrating paragraph 26(d) 
 
Identification of a deductible temporary difference at the end of Year 2: 
 
Entity A purchases for Rs. 1,000, at the beginning of Year 1, a debt instrument with a nominal value of 
Rs. 1,000 payable on maturity in 5 years with an interest rate of 2% payable at the end of each year. The 
effective interest rate is 2%. The debt instrument is measured at fair value. 
 
At the end of Year 2, the fair value of the debt instrument has decreased to Rs. 918 as a result of an increase 
in market interest rates to 5%. It is probable that Entity A will collect all the contractual cash flows if it 
continues to hold the debt instrument. 
continued... 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08 
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
...continued  
Example illustrating paragraph 26(d) 
 
Any gains (losses) on the debt instrument are taxable (deductible) only when realised. The gains (losses) 
arising on the sale or maturity of the debt instrument are calculated for tax purposes as the difference 
between the amount collected and the original cost of the debt instrument. 
 
Accordingly, the tax base of the debt instrument is its original cost. 
 
The difference between the carrying amount of the debt instrument in Entit y  A’s  statement of  financial 
position of RS. 918 and its tax base of Rs. 1,000 gives rise to a deductible temporary difference of Rs. 82 at the 
end of Year 2 (see paragraphs 20 and 26(d)), irrespective of whether Entity A expects to recover the 
carrying amount of the debt instrument by sale or by use, ie by holding it and collecting contractual cash 
flows, or a combination of both. 
 
This is because deductible temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of an asset or 
liability in the statement of financial position and its tax base that will result in amounts that are 
deductible in determining taxable profit (tax loss) of future periods, when the carrying amount of the asset or 
liability is recovered or settled (see paragraph 5). Entity A obtains a deduction equivalent to the tax base of the 
asset of RS. 1,000 in determining taxable profit (tax loss) either on sale or on maturity. 
 
 
27 The reversal of deductible temporary differences results in deductions in determining taxable profits of 
future periods. However, economic benefits in the form of reductions in tax payments will flow to the entity 
only if it earns sufficient taxable profits against which the deductions can be offset. Therefore, an entity 
recognises deferred tax assets only when it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which 
the deductible temporary differences can be utilised. 
 
27A When an entity assesses whether taxable profits will be available against which it can utilise a deductible 
temporary difference, it considers whether tax law restricts the sources of taxable profits against which it may 
make deductions on the reversal of that deductible temporary difference. If tax law imposes no such 
restrictions, an entity assesses a deductible temporary difference in combination with all of its other 
deductible temporary differences. However, if tax law restricts the utilisation of losses to deduction against 
income of a specific type, a deductible temporary difference is assessed in combination only with other 
deductible temporary differences of the appropriate type. 
 
28 It is probable that taxable profit will be available against which a deductible temporary difference can be 
utilised when there are sufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority and the 
same taxable entity which are expected to reverse: 
 
 
(a) in the same period as the expected reversal of the deductible temporary difference; or 
 
 
(b) in periods into which a tax loss arising from the deferred tax asset can be carried back or 
forward. 
 
In such circumstances, the deferred tax asset is recognised in the period in which the deductible 
temporary differences arise. 
 
29 When there are insufficient taxable temporary differences relating to the same taxation authority and the 
same taxable entity, the deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that: 
 
 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'11'08      5A  
 PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.11.2016  
 
(a) it is probable that the entity will have sufficient taxable profit relating to the same taxation authority 
and the same taxable entity in the same period as the reversal of the deductible temporary difference 
(or in the periods into which a tax loss arising from the deferred tax asset can be carried back or forward). 
In evaluating whether it will have sufficient taxable profit in future periods, an entity: 
 
(i) compares the deductible temporary differences with future taxable profit that excludes tax 
deductions resulting from the reversal of those deductible temporary differences. This comparison 
shows the extent to which the future taxable profit is sufficient for the entity to deduct the amounts 
resulting from the reversal of those deductible temporary differences. 
 
(ii) ignores taxable amounts arising from deductible temporary differences that are expected to originate 
in future periods, because the deferred tax asset arising from these deductible temporary differences 
will itself require future taxable profit in order to be utilised. 
 
(b) tax  planning  opportunities  are  available  to  the  entity  that  will  create  taxable  profit  in appropriate 
periods. 
 
29A The estimate of probable future taxable profit may include the recovery of some of an enti t y’ s as sets for 
more than their carrying amount if there is sufficient evidence that it is probable that the entity will achieve 
this. For example, when an asset is measured at fair value, the entity shall consider whether there is sufficient 
evidence to conclude that it is probable that the entity will recover the asset for more than its carrying amount. 
This may be the case, for example, when an entity expects to hold a fixed-rate debt instrument and collect the 
contractual cash flows. 
 
… 
 
Effective date 
 
… 
 
98G Recognition of Deferred Tax Assets for Unrealised Losses (Amendments to LKAS 12), issued in September 
2016, amended paragraph 29 and added paragraphs 27A, 29A and the example following paragraph 26. An 
entity shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or a fter 1  January 2017. E arlier 
application is permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, 
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. However, on initial application of the amendment, the change 
in the opening equity of the earliest comparative period may be recognised in opening retained earnings (or 
in another component of equity, as appropriate), without allocating the change between opening retained 
earnings and other components of equity. If an entity applies this relief, it shall disclose that fact. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 