

<!-- page 1 -->

3
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.01'20
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka – 20.01.2023
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each Language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
Attention  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th February, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th January 2023.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
2nd January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
3 B 82420 - 353 (01/2023)
 Page Page
 Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 4
wxl 2"316 - 2023 ckjdrs ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2023.01'20
no. 2,316 - JANuARy 20, FRIDAy, 2023
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

4
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023.01'20
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka - 20.01.2023
miscellaneous notice
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The  S o  S chILDRen' S VILLAGe of SRI  LAnkA oRGAnIzATIon
I, Kumarasiri Rathnayaka, do hereby give notice under No. 53 (1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled "An act to incorporate the S O S 
Children's Village of Sri Lanka Organization".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has the following general objects:-
 (a) to establish S O S Children's Villages in the Island of Sri Lanka
 (b) to provide children living in S O S Children's Villages the total protection in the form of ''family like care" model ; 
and
 (c) to establish community centres, Hermann Gmeiner School and vocational training centres for mothers and children.
etc.
 Kumarasiri Rathnayaka,
 Member of Parliament.
01-184
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The PRAGnAbAnDu SchoLARShIP  TRuST  funD
I, Rupasinhage Pradeep Saman Kumara undugoda, do hereby declare that I intend to present ini the Parliament a draft bill 
titled "An Act for the incorporation of the Pragnabandu Scholarship Trust Fund" under Standing Order 53(1) of the Standing 
Orders of the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The object of the Bill is to  incorporate the said scholarship trust fund having the following objectives. The objects of the 
fund are -
 01. to grant scholarships to qualified young men and women according to their situation who have successfully completed 
their primary education in order to extend financial assistance for them to complete higher education to develop their
  industrial and/or technical and/or vocational skills in a technical and/or higher education institution.
 
  
 02. to establish or extend assistance to establish higher education institutes, schools, funds in other fields of education and/
or technology/management and/or establish similar institutes for the furtherance of higher education.;
 
 03. to grant aid for developing and upgrading skills and competencies lecturers, teachers and such other persons engaged 
in the advancement of technical education,
 04. to do all/other such things required or appropriate for the realization of the aims and objectives of the Fund.
 Pradeep undugoda,
 Member of Parliament,
 Colombo District.
01-185
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.