

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1711$26 - 2011 cqks 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'06'24
No. 1711$26  - FRIDAY ,   JUNE  24,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial Councils Notifications
NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
THE ENVIRONMENTAL STA TUTE OF THE NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCE OF THE NORTH CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
BEGRIME NO. 28
The Statute for the establishment of a Environmental Authority for the North Central Provincial for
instituting arrangement pertaining to the duties and  powers for improving protecting and main power of
the Environment for systematize maintenance and administration of the Environment, in terms of the power
vested in the North Central Provincial Council for the preservation of the environment within the Council
jurisdiction subject the limitations, limit item No. 37 of the list No. 01 of the Schedule No. 9 which granted
power to the Provincial Council established under Section 154(a) of chapter xvii supplemented to the
constitution by 13th amendment of the constitution of Sri Lanka.
Such Authority, functions and duties and also for the management and conservation of environment
for systemizing of the environmental conditions maintenance and administration of it.
The short title
and the date of
operation
North Central Provincial Environment Statute No. 06 of 2009
I certify hereby that the draft of the above mentioned Statute, North Central Provincial Environment Statute No. 06 of 2009
meant for the conservation of the environment within the province under the limitations mentioned in Item 3 in the list No. 1
(Provincial Council List) in Schedule No. 9 by which the power has been given to the established Provincial Councils under
Section xvii(a) added to the Constitution by the 13th Amendment to the constitution of Sri Lanka, was adopted at the
Provincial Council meeting held on March 08, 2011.
P .B .D
ISSANAYAKA ,
Chairman,
North Central Province.
4th April, 2011.
Office of the Chairman,
North Central Province Provincial Council.
Anuradhapura.
Certificate was noted by me on June 03, 2011.
Karunarathna Divulgane,
Governor,
North Central Province.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
2A
0.1 This Statute will be cited as the North Central Provincial Environmental Authority, No.  of 2009
and shall come in to effect on such date being approved by the North Central Province Governor
Chapter 01
02. (1) For the purpose of the functions of this statute an Authority cited as the North  Central Province
Environmental authority should be established, which will be cited by the short title, such as
provincial authority.
(2). The Provincial Authority established under sub section one shall consist of the persons who
are for the time being members of the authority under sub- section one of the section 3
(3) The Provincial Authority shall be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession and
may sue or be sued in such name.
03.  (1) The Board of Directors of the Provincial Authority should consist of members appointed by
the subject minister:-
(a)  There should be five members conversant in environment, law, 
 management planning
and administration,
(b) One of the other members should be the Chief Secretary or any senior officer he has
nominated specially on his behalf,
(c) One member should be the Secretary of the Provincial Environmental affairs Ministry
or any senior officer nominated by him specially on his behalf,
(d) One member should be the Secretary of the Provincial Finance Ministry or any senior
officer nominated specially by him on his behalf,
(e) One member should be the Deputy Inspector General of Police North Central Province
or any senior officer nominated by him specially on his behalf,
(f) One person out of these members of the Board of Director, will be the Appointed
chairman of the Provincial Authority by the subject minister
    (g) One person out of the rest of Directors will be appointed the Working  Director of the
Provincial Authority
(h) When the Chairman of the Provincial Authority failing to discharge his duties pertaining
to his office due to falling sick, or any other disability owing to absence in the country
or any other reason the Subject Minister may appoint, one member of the Board of
Directors to act for the post of Chairman.
(2) The Chairman of the Provincial Authority when shall chair the meetings of the Provincial
Authority whenever he is present at such meeting.
(3) When the Provincial Authority decides that a meeting deemed necessary the authority shall
meet accordingly.
(4) A person chairing a meeting of the Provincial  Authority shall in addition to his vote, have the
privilege of a deciding vote.
(5) On the instructions of the subject minister the Chairman shall appoint the Managing Director
appointed in accordance with the provisions of this statute or the officer holding his office to
the Post of the Secretary of the Provincial Authority.
The appointment
of the Chairman
of the Provincial
Authority
The appointment
of the working
Director of the
Provincial
Authority
Establishment of
the authority
The Board of
Directors and
the Secretary of
the Provincial
Authority.
The appointment
of the Secretary
of the Provincial
Authority

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(6) The quorum of meeting of the Provincial Authority shall be three members.
(7) Although there could be a vacancy of a member of the Provincial Authority could proceed
irrespectively and due to the reasons that a vacancy of a member existing, any discrepancy in
the appointment of or in nominating a member is the Provincial Authority, any act or a
performance of it wouldn't become invalid or shall not be considered invalid, alone on such
reasons.
(8) The Chairman, working Director any of the Directors or the  Secretary of the Provincial Authority
could be paid a certain  remuneration and other allowances that could be decided with the
agreement of the Subject Minister, by the Minister from the fund of the Provincial Authority.
(9) The Provincial Authority shall institute rules subject to the Provisions of this statute regarding
the meetings of the Provincial Authority and the system of conducting such meetings.
04. (1) The seal of the Provincial Authority should be kept in the custody of its secretary.
(2) The preparation or the making charges to the seal could be executed as decided by the
Provincial Authority.
(3) The Seal of the Provincial Authority shouldn’t be placed on any document or an instrument
except in the presence of the Chairman of the Provincial Authority or a member of the Authority
and as for the evidence that they were present either the Chairman or the particular member
shall put his signature on the said document or the register.
05.  (1) The Provincial Authority shall have its own fund and there shall be credited to the fund of the
Authority:–
(a) All such allocations as may be voted by the Provincial Council of the North Central
Province for environmental affairs;
(b) All such allocations as may be received by the Provincial Authority in the exercise
discharging and performance of its powers, functions and duties;
(c) All such money as may be received by the Provincial Authority in the form of loans,
donations, gifts or grants from any source whatever whether in Sri Lanka or with
concurrence of the Sri Lanka Government outside the country; and
(d) All such sums of money as may be received by the Provincial Authority as fines or
charges in discharging its powers.
(e) Receive funds from government or central environmental authority or other government
institution and
(f) All such funds as may be received by the local or foreign or other donations or revenue
shall be credited to the fund of the authority.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund of the Provincial Authority all such sums of money required
to defray any expenditure incurred by the Authority in the discharge exercise and performance
of its powers, functions and duties.
(3) The initial capital of the Provincial Authority shall be 5 Million Rupees credited to the fund of
the Provincial Authority from the Provincial Council Fund.
06. (1) The financial year of the authority shall be the calendar year.
(2) The Authority shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of
the  income an expenditure assets and liabilities and all other transactions of the Authority.
The quorum of
meeting of the
Provincial
Authority.
The allowances
to the Board
of Director
and the
Secretary.
The seal of the
Provincial
Authority .
The fund of the
Provincial
Authority.
The financial
year and the
auditing of the
Provincial
Authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
4A
(3) The Auditor General shall audit the accounts of the Authority in every year.
(4) Subsequently the Auditor General or the relevant public official relevant to the North Central
Provincial Council on his behalf may submit a report containing his observations to the
Provincial Council at the end of each calendar year.
07. (1) There shall be established a Provincial Environmental Advisory Council hereinafter referred to
as “the Advisory Council” which shall consist of the following members appointed by the
Secretary of the particular Ministry on the instructions of the Subject Minister:–
(a) Secretary of each and every Provincial Ministry of the North Central Province Provincial
Council or a senior officer of each Ministry being nominated by the Ministry's Secretary;
(b) The all Divisional Secretaries in the North Central Province;
(c) A senior officer of the Ministry of Environmental Affairs and Natural Resources;
(d) A senior officer in the Ministry in charge of the Environmental affairs;
(e) A senior officer in the Ministry in Charge of Physical Planning;
(f) A senior officer in the Ministry in Charge of Agriculture and Agrarian Services Department;
(g) The Officers in Charge of the Districts in the North Central Province of the Archaeological
Department or two senior officers nominated by them;
(h) A senior official of the Indigenous Medicine Ministry;
(i) The North Central Local Government Commissioner or a senior officer especially
nominated by him;
(j) The North Central Land Commissioner or a senior officer specially nominated by him;
(k) A senior official of the Ministry in Charge of the Mahaveli Development Project;
(1) The Provincial Managing Director of the National Aquatic Development Authority or a
senior officer specially nominated by him;
(m) The Provincial Director of the Urban Development Authority or a senior officer nominated
by him;
(n) The Deputy General Manager of the CEB in North Central Province or a senior officer
specially nominated by him;
(o) The Deputy General Manager in the North Central Province of the Water Supply and
Drainage Board or a senior officer nominated by him;
(p) The District Officers of the Geological Surveys and Mines Bureau or a specially nominated
senior officer;
(q) The Heads of the Government Provincial Councils or any other institute (at a special
occasion where the Subject Minister considering that the expertise of such an officer is
required);
(r) In appointing the officers attached to the Governmental or statutory institutes they shall
be appointed with the relevant Ministry agreeing for such act.
Provincial
Environmental
Advisory
Council.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
The functions of the Advisory Council shall be generally to advise the Provincial Authority
on matters pertaining to its responsibilities, powers and functions and also to advise or
investigate and report on or make recommendations in respect of any matter referred to the
Advisory Council by the Provincial Authority and the Provincial Authority has the power to
take decisions on such matters.
(2) The members of the Advisory Council could be paid remuneration or allowances decided by
the Provincial Authority with the consent of the Finance Subject Minister from the fund of the
Provincial Authority.
 08. (1)   A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or from continuing   as a member of the
Provincial Authority or the Advisory Council—
(a) If he/she becomes a member of the Parliament, the Provincial Council or any other Local
Government Body;
(b) If he/she is a ceased to be a Citizen of Sri Lanka;
(c) If dismissed by the Subject Minister transferred or any other reason; or
(d) If the official designation which has been instrumental for the person to become a member
is changed due to a transfer or any other reason;
(e) A person appointed to the Provincial Authority or to the Advisory Council respectively in
terms of section 3(1) and section 7(1) if not disqualified and referred above his /her
membership is valid for a term of three years;
(f) If a member becomes disqualified in terms of Section 8(1) before the expiry of the 3 years
office term the Subject Minister may appoint in his place another person out of those referred
to in sections 3(1) or 7(1) for the balance period out of the three years term.
08. (2) No act or any proceeding of the Provincial Authority or the Advisory Council shall become
invalid by the reason only of the expiry of the term of office of a member or members or a
defect in the process of appointment of a member and such an expiry or a defective matter
shall have no effect on the activities of the Provincial Authority or the Advisory Council and
shall continue.
(3) When the secretary of the Provincial Authority and the advisory council,due to leaving the
country, falling sick or any other reason becomes unable to discharge his duties relating to his
office the Subject-Minister may appoint to that post the next Senior Officer or the officer acting
for the post on temporary basis.
(4) Any member of the Advisory Council or the Board of Directors, who is not belonging to any
Ministry or a department relevant to his appointment may resign by informing the subject
minister.
09. The Provincial Authority in discharging its powers under this statute shall implement them in
conformity to the provisions issued from time to time by Subject Minister.
10. (1) Regional nature clubs should be carried out under the guidance of all the executive officers of
Provincial Administrative Authorities.
(2) Apart from the current powers of the nature clubs the additional powers that have been created
by the Provincial Environmental Authority, should be carried out.
Disqualifications
of the mem-
bers of the
Provincial
Authority or
the Advisory
Council.
The expiry of
the period of
office is not
effecting the
functioning of
the Authority.
Divisional
Environmental
Committee.
Covering of
duties of the
post of the
secretary.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
6A
Chapter II
11. (i) The Provincial Environmental Authority in discharging its powers under the statute
shall implement them in conformity to the provisions issued from time to time by the
Secretary of the Ministry on the instructions of the Subject Minister:–
(a) The implementation of provisions of this statute and the order issued under them.
(b) The amendments to be made or rules to be drafted that may be necessary for the
planning of the conservation of soil, conversation of forests, prevention of
pollution of air, water and land and for the planning of in the use of air, water and
land within the province and to draft the amendments of constitution and the rules
on the instructions of the Subject Minister and submission of such constitutional
amendments and rules.
(c)  To require any Local Authority within the North Central Province to comply with
and give effect to any recommendation relating to environmental protection
within the limits of the jurisdiction of such L ocal Authority and in particular any
recommendations relating to all or any of the following aspects of environmental pollution.
Conducting surveys and investigations as to the cause nature and the extension and
the steps to be taken for the prevention of pollution and the appointment of investigating
or serving boards and appointment of special committees which would be able to assist
the Provincial Authority in discharging its functions, with the concurrence of the
Provincial Subject Minister.
(d) To specify standards, norms and criteria for the protection of beneficial uses and for
maintaining the quail of the environment.
(e) The publication of books, documents handouts, notifications
advertisements, reports and information relating to the environmental protection
and management.
(f) To undertake investigations and inspections to ensure compliance with      this statute
and the rules instituted there under and also to investigate and inquiry in to the cases
of noncompliance with such provisions.
(g) Determination of methodologies for undertaking investigations referred to in above
subsection (f) and to engage persons, officers or any person decided upon by the Provincial
Authority to assign the task.
(h) Providing information's and education to the public to make them aware of protection .
(i) Improve ties with local and foreign agencies engaged in the protection of the environment
and management and implementing the educational exchange programmers with such
organizations.
(j) Drafting of
 long or short-term plans for the protection and the management of   the
environment and planning and implementation of procedures meant for encouraging
the public or the institutes to take to the conservation of the environment.
(k) To plan and carry out all steps necessary to prevent the discharge of was tes and
pollutants in to the environment and the protection and the improvement of the standard
of the environment.
(l) To require any Local Authority within the North Central Province to comply with
and give effect to any recommendation relating to environmental protection
within the limits of the jurisdiction of such L ocal Authority and in particular any
recommendations relating to all or any of the following aspects of environmental pollution:–
The powers and
duties of the
Provincial
Authority

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(i) The prohibition of unwarranted discharge, emission or deposit of litter,
sewage or any other waste matter and the enforcement of managerial
orders;
(ii) Prevention of discharging of untreated sewage, litter or other waste
or industrial affluent of toxic chemicals or carbonic smoke in to soil, canals
and water resources or emission of air or smoke consisting of particles of
waste detrimental to environment and public health and the enforcement of
managerial orders;
(iii) The prohibition of the exhibition of posters or bills on walls or buildings or
other unauthorized places and the regulation of erecting of advertising
pillars or hoardings;
(iv) The prevention of defacement of scenic places, public property or historical
ruins. The control of the atmospherically sound and land pollution and
enforcement of managerial orders;
(v) The prohibition of the storage, transport and disposal of any material
hazardous to the health and the environment and the enforcement of the
relevant orders;
(vi) The prevention of damages to the plants and trees grown or in the process of
growing along the wayside or in parks or in any other public places the making
of arrangements for the protection and the maintenance them in the proper
condition and beautification, the implementation of  recommendations
and proposals made for promoting such protection and effecting the relevant
management orders therein.
11 (1) The Provincial Authority may issue an special or general order for the implementation or for
getting implemented any act or function within the imits of a particular local government institute
meant for the protection conservation or the improvement of the environment when the Provincial
Authority has decided to do so.
(2) In the event of such orders being issued the particular local government body shall act according
to such orders.
Chapter III
Staff of the Provincial Authority
12  (1) (a) The Subject Minister shall appoint a person well conversant in environmental affairs and
holding qualifications in the environment subject as the General Manager of the Provincial
Environmental Authority. The said person would be appointed out of those possessing a
degree in Environmental Management, Botany, Zoology, Biology, Geography or professional
qualifications (the state employees with such qualifications could be appointed on
seconded or attachment basis).
(2)  (a) The Chief Executive of the Provincial Authority is the Chairman and the direction of the
activities of the authority organization and the activation also the administration and
controlling of the staff of the Authority shall be in Charge of  the Chairman.
The power to
issue orders to
the local
government
bodies.
General
Manager.
The Chief
Executive
Officer of the
Authority .
6 - PG 001259

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
8A
(b)  The Managing Director of the Provincial Authority will act as the Secretary of the
Provincial Authority. Though he is entitled to attend to the sessions of the Board of
Directors and the Advisory Council he is not entitled to vote at these meetings.
(c) The period of the office of the Secretary of the Provincial Authority and the Advisory
Board shall remain until such time he works holds his official designation.
1 3 (1) For the purpose of discharging the powers and performing the functions of the Provincial
Authority efficiently, the Provincial  Authority may recruit the necessary staff in accordance to
the recruitment produce of the authority.
13 (2) The staff of the Authority shall be remunerated or paid allowances as may be determined by
such regulation and as may be prescribed by the Provincial Authority in accordance with the
ratio decided by the Authority.
13 (3) At the request of the Provincial Authority any officer in the Public or the Local Government or
the Provincial Council Service could be appointed to the staff of the Provincial Authority
depending on the approval or the release by the Secretary of the Authorized body for a decided
period on temporary seconded basis or to the permanent carder.
1 3 (4) The qualifications and conditions of service prescribed by the Provincial Authority for the
purpose of recruitment of staff shall apply to all officers and employees except for the Chairman
and the Secretary of the Provincial Council.
Chapter IV
(14) The Provincial Authority in consultation with the Advisory Council shall formulate and recommend
to the subject minister land usage scheme consistent with the following objectives:–
(a) To provide a systematic and an efficient methodology of utilization of land and
resources of them in order to derive maximum benefits;
(b) To impose conditions or orders in respect of baron, bare Uncultivated abandoned or
neglected lands and such lands not methodically and more usefully cultivated;
(c) Look into the methodologies in using the lands more usefully and profitable and the
conservation of lands to avoid any imbalance between the requirements in the province
and such land resources;
(d)  To determine the suitable crops to be particularly cultivated in lands, villages or an
area.
(15)  The under mentioned facts should include in the land use management referred to in section :–
(a) Scientific land grouping systems and a land classification list;
(b) The present level of utilization of lands th e quantity of land being used, the lands less
utilized and the lands abandoned or neglected;
(c) To decide or determine accurately and in detail the possibility of us ing lands for
agricultural, industrial, commercial and for living purposes;
(d) Identification of areas having important historical, cultural or aesthetic value and
importance where uncontrolled development could result in damaging these area or areas
development of which could result in damage to the conservation of environment;
The Managind
Director or The
Secretary have
no voting rights
at the meeting
Other staff
Land
Management
The
methodology
of land use
 

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(e)    A methodology for exercising control by the Provincial Council over the use of
land where environment control is deemed necessary;
 (f )   A policy for influencing the location of new area for the resettlement of people   and
village expansion and the methods assuring appropriate systems of control over
the use of land and around such areas.
NATURAL  RESOURCES
(16) The Provincial authority in consultation with the Advisory Council shall recommend to the
Minister in Charge of the subject the basic policy on the management and the conservation
of the natural resources of the province in order to obtain the optimum benefits there and to
preserve the same for the future generations and general measures through which such policy
may be implemented effectively and shall formulate regulations thereon on the advice of the
subject minister. Accordingly regulations shall be framed and submitted on the direction of
the subject minister such regulations shall results in securing an income to the provincial
environment (authority from the utilization of sand, gravel, metal, soil etc.,
FISHERIES  AND  AQUATIC  RESOURCES
(17) The Provincial Authority having consulted the Advisory Council recommend to the Subject
Minister a system of rational exploitation of fisheries and a quatic resources in the interior
waters within the boundaries of the Provincial Council of the North Central Province and
shall formulate. Regulations therefore on the instructions of the Subject Minister.
WILD  LIFE  RESOURCES
(18) The Provincial Authority is consultation of the A dvisory Council shall  recommend a suitable
methodology in the utilization of the wildlife resources in the North Central Province and a
method of con servation of such resources to the subject minister and frame necessary
regulations on the instruction of the subject minister.
FOREST  RESOURCES
(19) The Provincial Authority in consultation with the Advisory Council shall formulate a methodology
and recommend to the Subject Minister and on the instructions given by him having analysis
them regulations shall be instituted on following matters:–
1. A systematic methodology for the utilization of forest resources;
2 . Conservations development and replanting of threatened species of flora and
restriction and prevention of their destruction and selling;
3. Promoting and encouraging public participations in forest conservation and tree
planting;
4. Land classification, Management of forest expansion, plantation of Industrial
and fuel trees, parks and wildlife management forest research and study, minimization
of damage consequent to the development ventures, tree planting by road sides,
systemization of tree planting programs and its regulation, setting up development
and conservation of arbores, parks and forest resorts and fertilization of soil
and its conservation.
Natural
Resources
Management
and
Conservation
Management
policy for
fisheries and
aquatic
resources
Management
policy for
wildlife
Provincial
Authority

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
10A
SOIL CONSERV ATION
(20) The Provincial Authority in consultation with the Advisory Council shall, with the guidance to the
Provincial Ministries of irrigation, Agriculture and land Highways and Local Government recommends
to the Subject Minister suitable programs for the identification and protection of critical watershed
areas, identification study and introduction of scientific farming technology leading to prevent soil
erosion, identification of areas liable for soil erosion; restriction. Prohibition and imposition of
conditions on such cultivation or other activities resulting in soil erosion, encouragement of soil
conservation enlightenment on the possible consequences of having soil erosion and regulation
drainage systems on highways and lands and shall formulate regulations on the advice of the Subject
Minister
Chapter V
ENVIRONMENTAL  PROTECTIONS
(21). With effect from such date as may have appointed by the subject minister by orders published in
the Gazette no person shall discharge deposit or emit waste such as garbage animal or plant
residue sewage industrial affluent or toxic chemicals carbonic matter air smoke or steam containing
particles of waste or obnoxious odor, detrimental to environment and to public health into the
environment which causing pollution except to the power of a permit or license issued by the
Provincial Authority and other standards, comparisons conditioner and orders which could be
determined under this statute.
22 (1) A temporary or annual license may be issued to an institute or a person authorizing such institute
or the person to discharge emit or deposit any waste chemicals air smoke or steam as declared
in the aforesaid Prohibition of discharging in emission or depositing waste into the environment.
Section 21, on the application referred to the Provincial Authority on the payments of the
prescribed fee to the Provincial Authority in accordance to the certain conditions comparisons;
and orders being determined under this Statute in a prescribed form authorized by the Provincial
Authority.
(2) Such a license should be valid for such period as shall be specified in the said license provided,
it shall not be for more than twelve months.
(3) When a license is issued in terms of section 22:1 for a purpose it can continue beyond the
period of validity only if a fresh license is obtained or on renewal of the existing license.
(23) (a) In issuing a license in terms of Section 22 the Provincial Authority may where it considers
necessary refers such application to an appropriate Provincial Minister,  Department or institute
or an officer concerned requesting for a report or a recommendation with regard to such
application.
(b) When a matter has been referred to a Provincial Ministry Department institute or officer shall
report on it or make recommendation etc. thereon without delay.
(c) The Provincial Authority shall wait in taking a final decision on such application until the report
or the recommendation is received.
Policy on soil
Conservation
Management
Prohibition of
discharging
emission or
depositing
waste into the
environment
Issue of licenses
The valid period
of license
Calling reports
from a relevant
Ministry,
department or
an institute

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(24)  (a) Where a license is issued to a person under section 22 and such person acts in violation of
any of the terms, standards or conditions of the license or when the authority  considers that
further depositing or emission of waste is of not suitable or foliate the authority may suspend
or cancel such license.
(b) Whereas a license is suspended or cancelled the activities concerned should cease immediately
after such suspension or cancellation
(25) 1. ( a) Where the Provincial Authority refuses in terms of section 22 to issue a license, the act
should be communicated to the party or parties concerned.
(b) A person not satisfied with such notification as referred to in 25:1(a) may submit an appeal
against such refusal within 5 days since the date of the communication to the Secretary of
the Ministry of the Subject Minister under registered cover.
(c) The Secretary on receipt of such an appeal shall get a inquiry done by a team of members
of the Advisory Council consisting two members minimum or more than that and reach a
decision depending on the recommendations made at the inquiry.
2. The decision of the Secretary of the Subject Ministry shall be the final decision.
Chapter VI
Environmental  Quality
26:1(a) Without limitation to the generality of subsection (1), a person shall be deemed to contravene
the provisions of that subsection if he places any waste whether solid liquid or gaseous in a
position where it falls into any reservoir or descends drains evaporate, washed is blown or
percolated into any waters or on the bed of any river, stream or other waterway when dry or
knowingly or through his negligence whether directly or indirectly causes or permits on such
matter to place in such a position or;
(b) He places waste on the bed when dry of any river, stream or other waterway or knowingly or
through his negligence causes or permits any waste to be placed on such a bed.
2. Any person who breaches the provisions of the Sub section 21:1 commits an of fence and when
found guilty—
(a) Shall be liable to be fined not less than Rs. 10,000 and not exceeding Rs. 100,000 and for each
day he committing the offence in continuation, a fine of Rs. 500 for each such day.
(27) Subject to section 21 of this statute with effect from the relevant date no person shall discharge
or emit waste into the atmosphere except in accordance to the criteria as may be prescribed
under this statute.
(28) (1)  No person shall pollute the atmosphere or cause or permit the atmosphere to the polluted
so that the physical, chemical or biological condition of the atmosphere is so changed as to
make reasonably be expected to make it to become unclean allergic “poisonous, untidy, harmful
to the welfare “health” security or the property of the human beings, poisonous and harmful
to the creatures, birds, wild beasts, fauna and flora as well including all other living beings.
(2) If any person—
Suspension or
the cancellation
of license
Appeals against
the refusal to
issue a license.
Imposing fines
on  an offender
The disposal of
garbage to the
natural
environment
on negligence
Restrictions on
the pollution
of atmosphere

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
12A
(a) Causes the placement of any liquid or gaseous matter of which the placement
has been prohibited by this statute or under it or by the Regulations formulated under the
statute or not adhering to the laws and regulations made under this statute to that effect or;
(b) Causes to emit or discharge the odors which is obnoxious and oppressive and unduly
offensive to the limbs of the human beings or making room for such act owing to the
largeness of the accumulated quantity or;
(c) burns wastes otherwise than at times of in the manner or place prescribed or;
(d) he uses an internal combustion engine or fuel burning equipment not equipped with
any device required by the regulations to be fitted with to such engine for the prevention
or the decreasing of pollution.
(29) Any person who owns, uses, operates, constructs sells, installs or offerin g to sell or install
any machinery vehicle or boat, required by or under this statute or any regulation made
thereunder to be built, fitted or equipped with any device for preventing or limiting
pollution of the atmosphere without such machinery, vehicle or boat being so built, fitted
or equipped shall become guilty of an offence. All such devices built, fitted or equipped under
this section shall be maintained and operated at the expense of the owner.
(30) Subject to section 21 of this statute no person with effect from the relevant date
shall discharge or deposit waste into the soil except in accordance with such standards or
criteria as may be prescribed under the statute.
(31) (1) No person shall pollute or cause or permit to be polluted any soil or surface of any
land so that the physical chemical or biological condition of the soil or surface is so
changed as to make or be reasonably expected to make the soil or the produce of the soil
poisonous or impure harmful to potentially harmful to the health or welfare of human
beings, poisonous or harmful to animals, birds, wildlife plants or all other forms of
life or obnoxious or unduly offensive to the senses and limbs of the human beings or
so as to be detrimental to any beneficial usage of the land resource.
(2) Without limitation to the generality of subsection 31.1 a person shall be deemed to
contravene that section if any soil or in any place where it may gain access to any soil
any matter whether liquid solid or gaseous that is prohibited by or under this statute
or any regulation made there under or does not comply with such regulations as may be
prescribed and;
(a)   He uses the land in a unsuitable manner such as offensive or unnecessarily
harmful to the senses of the human being, or causing the underground water resources
polluted or causing undesirable influence on such resources or causing a damage for
utilization of soil and the surface of land using such land as a dumping ground of
garbage grange pit or soil or metal for depositing muddy mire or for the disposal of
garbage.
(3)   Exceptions could be granted for valid reasons such as usage of some prescribed
drugs mixture for controlling a particular insect. But such a chemical compound shall
not be severely harmful to the soil.
(a)   Without limitation to the generality of sub section 31.1 the person shall be deemed to
have contravened the provisions of the section if and fuel prohibited under the
regulations instituted in this statute is used or ignited or burnt.
(4)     Without limitation to the generality of sub section 31.1 he shall be deemed to contravene the
provisions of that sub section.
Failure to fit
and maintain
prescribed
control device
an offence
Restrictions,
Regulations
and control
of pollution
of soil
Pollution of the
soil is an
offence

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(a) He is liable for a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and not exceeding
rupees one Hundred thousand and thereafter in the event of the same offence being
continued, to a fine of rupees five hundred for each day on which the offence is so
continued to be committed.
(b) Required to take within such period as may be determined by court, such corrective
measures may be deemed necessary to prevent further damage being caused by the
pollution of atmosphere and furnish at the end of such period of the incorporation of
such corrective measures. The court sell also require such person convicted to bear the
expenses incurred by the authority in the correction of damage already caused as a result
of the commission of such offence.
 (5) The court acting on a request or submission by the senior environmental scientist /Director or
the authorized officer, may order for the closure of such factory industry or the business to
prevent further damage until such time the particular person apply adequate Preventive measures,
after 6 weeks since convicted for an offence committed under sub section 31.3
(6)  Where any person fails to or neglects to act in accordance with an order   for
closure issued in terms of subsection 31:4 Such order shall be a sufficient authority for the said
fiscal or any police officer authorized by him in that behalf to enter the premises with such
assistants as the fiscal or such police officer shall deem necessary or close such factory or
trade or business carried at such premises.
 (7) Any person who breaches any of the aforesaid provisions committing an offence and
when convicted for such offences is liable to a fine not less than rupees ten thousand
and not exceeding rupees one hundred thousand and in the case of a continuing the
same offence to a fine of rupees five hundred for each and every day in which offence
continues after the conviction.
( 32) Subject to section 34 of this statute effecting from the relevant date no person shall
permit the emission of excessive noise unless he complies with such standards or limitations
as may be prescribed under the statute with regard to the volume intensity or quality of such
noise.
(33) (1) No person shall make emit or cause or permit to be made or emitted noise greater in
volume intensity or quality than the levels prescribed for tolerable noise except
under the authority of a license issued by the provincial authority under this statute.
(2) The provisions of sections 22 and 23 shall mutatis apply to and in relation to the issue of a
licensee under the sub section 22.1 of the statute.
(3) Any authority or institutions empowered by any other written law to issue licenses
relating to any of the matters referred to in this statute shall in doing so conform to the
standards specified under this statute.
(34)  (1) Any persons who without a license or contrary to any conduction limitation or
restriction to which a license under this statute or any other written law is subject makes
or causes or permits to be made or emitted noise that is greater in its volume. Intensity
or quality than the standards as may be prescribed for the emission of noise which is
materials of the end of a production.
(2) When a person commits an offence mentioned in Section 34.1 and is convicted he shall be
subjected to a fine not below Rupees Ten Thousand and not exceeding Rupees One Hundred
Thousand and if the offence mentioned is committed repeatedly he, after being convincted,
shall be subjected to a fine of Rupees Five Hundred for each day he commits the offence
Imposing of
fines when
these
provision
have been
breached.
Correcting the
malpractice
and the course
of action of
the authority.
Discharge of
certain noises
to be licensed.
Restrictions on
noise pollution.
Excessive noise
is an offence.
Fine on
Conviction

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
14A
(35). Where the Provincial Authority is of the opinion that the circumstances are such that any litter
deposited in any place whether public or private is or likely to become deferential to the health
safety or welfare of the members of the public unduly offensive to the senses of human beings or
hazardous to the environment the Provincial Authority may by notice or a document directs the
person who is responsible for such depositing of litter or the government authority dealing in
disposal and removal of such litter to take certain action as indicated in the aforesaid notice or
the document relating to the removal of such litter. For the purpose of this section the litter is
interpreter as a byproduct emerged as a result of a certain production process or discarded .
(36). The cost of removing or otherwise disposing of or reducing litter pursuant to a notice given under
section 35 may be recovered in any court of competent jurisdiction against any person proved to
have deposited the litter as a debt due to the provincial Authority.
(37). Any person to whom a notice in writing under person proved to have deposited the litter as a
debt due to the provincial Authority. Any person to whom a notice in writing under section
35 is directed and who fails without reasonable cause to comply with the requirement of
the notice shall if proved, becomes guilty of an offence.
(38). (1) The minister may by order published in the  Gazette
(a) Prohibit the use of any materials for any process trade or industry,
(b) Prohibit whether by description or by brand name the use of any equipment or industrial
plant, which will endanger the quality of the environment within the areas specified in
such order.
( 2) The Minister may by order published in the Gastec require the installation repair maintenance
or operation of any equipment or industrial plant within the areas specified in the said Gazette.
(3) Any person who contravenes any such prohibition failing to comply with any requirement in
any order made under subsection 1 and 2 shall be guilty of an offence.
(39). In any prosecution for an offence under this part of this statute a certificate issued under
the signature of the secretary to the effect that the pollution specified in the certificate has been
committed to the environment shall be admissible in evidence and shall be prime facie  proof of
the facts included therein.
Chapter VII
APPROVAL OF A PROJECT
(40) (1)  For the activities under this part of this Statute, the Minister by order published in the Gazette
may nominate the project approving agency or the agencies which are herein after called as
provincial environmental project approving agency or agencies
(2) Environmental project approving agencies shall operate within the limits conditions or
directives made by the subject minister relevant to the subject concerns.
(3)   The subject minister may abolish suspend or reconstitute such Environmental project approving
agencies at his discretion.
Removal of
litter
The
environmental
project
approving
agencies.
The certificated
shall be a prima
facie concerning
the contents in it
The authority to
prohibit the usage
of any material or
equipment or to
order to utilize
such things
Power to
prohibit or
require the use of
any material or
equipment.
Cost of removing
litter may be
recovered against
person responsible

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(41) The Subject Minister shall by order published in the Gazette  determine the projects and
undertaking  hereinafter referred to as prescribed projects in respect of which the approval would
be necessary under the provisions of this part of the statute.
(42)  (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other written law from and after the coming in to
operation of this statute, all prescribed projects which are being commissioned in the North
Central Province by any Department Corporation, Statutory Board Local Authority, company
firm or an individual person will be required to obtain the approval under this statute for the
implementation of such prescribed projects.
(2) The approval as referred to in the subsection one shall be obtained from the environmental
project approving agency which is relevant to the particular project or connected with such
prescribed project.
(3) If it has been found that any such environmental project approving Agency has the
certificated shall be a prima facie concerning the contents in it contravened the Provisions
statute in the issue of permits or has done so against the regulation the provincial authority
has right of cancelling or suspending the permit.
(43) (1) It shall be the duty of all project approving agencies to require from any department
corporation, statutory board  local government authority company institute government
agency firm or an individual who submit any prescribed project for its approval to submit
within a specified period an initial or an environmental impact assessment report as required
by the project approving agency and containing such information and particulars as may be
prescribed by the subject Minister for the purpose.
(2) A project approving agency shall on receipt of an initial environmental examination report or
an environmental impact assessment report as the case may be submitted to such project
approving agency in compliance with the norms imposed under subsection one by notice
published in the Gazette and in a news paper in triple languages such as Sinhalese, Tamil
and English. Notify the place and the time where such report shall be made available for the
examination by the public and invite the public to make their comments if any thereon.
(3) The members of the public within 30 days since the paper notification in terms of the
subsection two, may submit his comments if any, to the Environmental project approving
agency. Also if the agency considers that it could be beneficial to the public the agency may
extend an opportunity to such person for his submissions and the environmental project
approving agency or agencies shall take notice of such Submission and disclosures in
granting its approval for the implementation of the prescribed project.
(44). The project approving agencies shall determine the procedure be adopted in giving approval to
any prescribed project submitted to it for approval such procedure shall be based on the
guidelines prescribed by the subject minister for such purpose
(45) (1)  Where a project approving agency has refused to sanction any prescribed project
submitted for approval the person or the body of persons this dissatisfied and
aggrieved shall have the right to appealing to the secretary to the subject ministers ministry
against such refusal and for relief.
(2) The decision of the secretary to the subject minister's Ministry on such appeal shall
be the final. The Secretary before reaching a decision shall obtain the observations of the
Advisory council.
.
The authorized
institutes to
approve the
projects.
The authorized
institutes to
approve the
projects.
Appropriate
Projects.
Appropriate
projects
approval.
The exhibition
ofenvironmen-
tal inspection
reports
Procedure to be
based o n
guidelines
prescribed
Appeal to the
secretary of
the Ministry
of the subject
Minister.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
16A
(46) .  Where any alternation or change being executed to any prescribed project already
approved for which approval has been granted or where any prescribed project already
approved is being abandoned the government department corporation, statutory board, local
government authority company, firm or individual who/which obtained such approval
shall inform the appropriate project approving agency of such alterations or the case of
abandonment as the case may be and where necessary obtain fresh approval in respect of relating
to any alterations which are planned to be made to such prescribed project for which for
which approval had been given. Provided however where such prescribed project that is being
abandoned or altered in a project approved with the concurrence of the Provincial
Authority, the Provincial Authority should also be informed of such matter and any fresh
approval required to be obtained should be given only with the concurrence of the Authority.
(47).(1) It shall be the duty of all project approving agencies to forward to the Provincial
Authority a report concerning each and every prescribed project for which approval has been
granted by such agency.
(2) ( a) It shall be legal for any person or environmental agency authorized by the provincial
authority to make a verbal or written direction to any person, who has been
responsible for the construction of any erection obstruction project or the projection
within the North Central Provincial Council Jurisdictions, which is a obstruction
for the environmental protection and which should not have been excited unless on a
permit obtained under this statute to remove any such erection or any obstruction or
a projection hazardous to the environment and if the person to whom such directive is
referred to refuses or neglects act in accordance with such directive within the
prescribed period given by the Provincial Authority or doubtful as to the person who
shall make such order the provincial authority may stick s uch order on that erection
or the holding or the fitting for a period deemed to have been reasonable by the
Provincial Authority is legal to have such construction  erection obstruction or the
projection removed forthwith any human labour together with necessary
machinery and equipment or using any other method by the Provincial authority itself.
(b) If shall be legal for a person or for persons who have been authorized by the provincial
Authority to remove such erection obstruction or projection to enter with any human
labour machinery cattle elephants or any other animal labour together with necessary
implements, such place premises house or buildings and take all measured that may be
required to give effect to such removed or demolition.
(c) Any person obstructing such section shall be liable on conviction to a fine not less
that rupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupees one hundred thousand or to
imprisonment of either description for a term of two years or for both.
(d) It shall be legal for the Provincial Authority to recover the cost of such removal by
the sale of material equipment machinery of building belonging or connected to such
erection obstruction or the projection.
(e) Where no such recovery is possible it should be the alternative to obtain a court order
for recovering the damage in the form of a fine imposed on the offending party.
Submission of a
report of
approved
prescribed
project
Charge guilty
with persons.
Abandoning of
any project or
alteration.
Removal of any
restriction  for
environmental
protection
The exhibition
Environmental
inspection
report's.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
Chapter VIII
(48).(1) A panel of arbiters consisting of three members as indicated below for the settlement of
problems arising between this Provincial Authority and any other Provincial Authority
established under a statute of another Provincial Council, in the implementation of powers
in this statute on the agreement of the parties linked to the problem or the differences.
(a) The Provincial authorities involved in shall appoint one obiter each.
(b) The third arbiter will act as a judge of the arbiters being appointed in terms of above
subsection one.
(2) The disputes between relevant authorities shall settle based on the conclusions of the
arbiters appointed in terms of subsection one
(49) (1) For the purpose of effecting the principles and objects of this statute the provincial authority
may by noticed in writing served on the occupier of any premises. Require that occupier to
furnish to the Provincial Authority within a period of 14 days or such longer period as is
specified in the said notice such information as to any manufacturing industrial or trade
process carried on in such premises or as to any wastes discharged or likely to be discharged
from the said premises as is specified in the notice.
(2) The Provincial Authority shall treat all information being furnished to it pursuant to any
requirement made under the subsection one, with the strictest secretary and shall not
divulge such information to any person other than to a court of law, subject to subsection
03 of the purpose of any prosecution for an offence under this statute.
(3)  If a person who has furnished any information in terms of an order relative to subsection
one to the authority has raised any objection at the time of providing such information
or statement that he would be guilty of a criminal act it shall not be used as evidence
at a case against such person.
(50)(1) The chairmen of the Provincial Authority or an officer appropriate authorized by him
in writing at any time enter any presses or a land and;
(a) Examine and inspect any equipment or industrial plant.
(b) Take samples of any pollutants that are emitted discharged, deposited or are likely to
be of a class or kinds are usually emitted discharged or deposited from such equipment
or industrial plant.
(c) Examine any books records or documents relating to the performance or use of such
equipment or industrial plant relating to the emission discharge or deposit from
such equipment or industrial plan
(d) Take photographs of such equipment or industrial plant as it considers necessary
or make copies of any books records or documents seen in the course of such
examination.
(e) Take sample of any fuel, substance or material used, likely to be used or usually used in
such trade industry or process carried out in or on such premises.
(2). The secretary of the provincial authority or the officer authorized by him may, where he has
reasonable cause to apprehend any serious obstruction in the execution of his duties under
subsection one enter any land or premises accompanied by a police officer.
(3) Any person who prevents or obstructs the chairmen of the Provincial Authority or any
authorized officer in carrying out such inspection or investigation, recording of data or
the taking of samples under subsection one shall be guilty of an offence under this statute.
Furnishing of
information
regarding the
garbage to the
Provincial
authority.
The Secretary
of the
information.
Reconciliation
of conflicts
among local
authorities
It's an offence to
obstruct.
The search or
the inspection.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
18A
51(1) The Provincial Authority shall have the power to issue directives to any person engaged in or  about
to engage in any development project or scheme which is causing or is likely to cause damage or
detriment to the environment regarding the measures to be adopted for preventing or doing away
with such damage or loss the environment and it shall be the duty of such person to comply
with such directive.
(2) Where a person fails to comply with any directive issued under subsection one the Magistrate
may on application made by the Provincial Authority order the temporary suspension of such
project or scheme until such person takes necessary measures specified in such directive.
5 2 (1) subject minister may by the regulations published in government gazette declare areas as
environmental protected areas herein after referred to as protected areas.
(2)  By the regulations declaring certain areas as protected areas as referred to in the subsection one
the boundaries of such areas shall be demarcated with some mark and signs.
53.(1) Where a certain area has been declared as a protected area under the section 52(1) the subject
minister may in a gazette notification being published may declare, that a particular scheme
project or an industry located in such protected areas initiated under the provisions of another
law conflicting with the provision of this statute, not to be implemented
(2) So long as an order under subsection one is in force the provincial authority shall be
responsible for physical planning of such area in accordance with the provisions of this
statute.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection one, the subject minister may at the request
of the provincial authority declare from time to time by order being published in government
gazette that with effect from such date as shall have specified in such order the provincial
authority shall cease to be the authority responsible for planning, in a such protected
area, projects and schemes.
(4) so long as an order under section 52 relating to a protected area as such no person other,
than the provincial Authority shall exercise perform and functions relating to planning
and development within such protected areas.
54.(a) The provincial authority any appoint analysts for making analysis of samples taken for
the purpose of this statute and environmental pollution investigation officers for inspection and
evaluation of records of records of monitoring prescribed equipment and installation for
detecting the freeness quantity and nature of waste and its effect on the receiving
components of the environment.
(55)(1) The provincial authority may by order subject to the subsection five, del egate any of
its duties under this statute to any government department corporation statutory
Board, local governmental body or any of ficer.
(2) Where the provincial Authority has delegated any power under subsection one to any
government Department Corporation Statutory government Authority officer, any officer of
such government department corporation statutory board or local government authority as
the case may be or such public officer may exercise any of the powers which the Secretary
of the Provincial Authority would be able to exercise but not exercised has he been exercising
powers as such himself.
Declaration of
areas as
environmental
protection
areas
Appointment of
environment
pollution
investigating
officials
The suspension of
the project when
the Directives of
the Provincial
Authority
Provincial
Authority to
issue directions
not complied
with
The
empowerment
of powers
already vested
in our riot
effected

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(3). Nothing in this section shall prevent the provincial authority from any responsibility or power
to protect the environment and from administering the previsions of this statute.
(4). An order made under subsection (1) may be revoked or varied at anytime
by the Provincial Authority provided such order has been made by it.
(5)  (a)   No order shall be made except with the compliance of the Subject Minister, relating to any
provincial council department or an officer or any institute without the consent of the
Provincial Minister in charge of such department institute or the officer.
(56). All members’ officers and servants attached to the provincial Authority shall be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning of meaning of and for the purpose of the penal
code.
(57). The Provincial Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduled institute within meaning of
the Bribery Act and the provisions of that act shall be interpreted adoringly.
58. (1)  The Provisions of this Statute shall have the effect not withstanding anything to the contrary
in the provisions of written law and accordingly in the event of any conflict or inconsistency
between the provisions of the statute and the provisions of such other written law the
provisions of this statute shall prevail over the provisions of such other written law in north
Central Province.
(2) The subject Minister may suspend the implementation of the complete statute or the relevant
provisions in the statute temporarily or undated. When the subject minister considers that
it would be a barrier for a procedure in effect under any parliamentary Acts which is in
progress of or such procedure likely to be effected or would make such procedure more
productive, whatever the case may be 3.when such a  suspension has been activated or the
order of suspension has been removed such as act shall be published in Gazette and each such
notice in three daily news papers appearing in Sinhala, English and Tamil.
59 (1) ( a) No suit or prosecution shall lie against the Provincial Authority for any act which is
committed in   good faith or purported to have been done by the Authority under
Statute; and
(b) Against the members of the Provincial Authority Advisory Council or Provincial
Environmental Agency or any officer or servant of the Provincial Authority for any act
which in good faith is done or purported to have done under this statute. Or on the
directions of the Provincial Authority.
(2) Any expense incurred by the Provincial Authority in any suit or prosecution brought by or
against the Provincial Authority before any court of law shall be paid out of the fund of the
provincial Authority and any cysts paid to or recovered by, the Provincial Authority in any
such suit or prosecution shall be credited to the fund of the provincial authority.
No prosecution
possible for
action take
under this
statute or on the
directions of the
provincial
Authority
The legal fees
shall be paid
out of authority
funds and
monies received
to be credited
to the fund.
Imposer
directions with
regard to an
institute or a
person
The member’s
officers and
employees of
the provincial
authority should
be considered as
state employees
The Authority
deemed to be a
scheduled
institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act
This statute to
be prevailing
over the
provisions of
any other
written law.
Suspension or
the
implementation
of provisional
madder the stay
Act.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
20A
(3)  Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred to or in paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) in any civil or criminal suit or prosecution brought against him before
any court in respect of any act which is done or is purported to be done by him under
this Statute or on the direction of the Provincial Authority. If the court has decided that
such person has committed such offence in good faith such expenses or cost shall be
paid out of the fund of the Provincial Authority provided that he has not recovered such
cost or expenses at the end of the case.
 60. Any person who breaches rules and regulations or directives or provisions instated under
this Statute or defaulting such rules and regulations etc. becomes guilty of an offence for
breaching or defaulting at and at a suit before a magistrate when found guilty shall be
liable on conviction to a fine of not less than rupees ten thousand or an imprisonment of
for a period not exceeding two years or liable for both.
61. (1) The Subject Minister may institute regulations with regard to all matters which are stated
or are required by such statute to be prescribed or for which gelatins required under this
statute to be formulated.
(2) Particularly and with no prejudice to the generality of the powers  conferred by
subsection one the Subject Minister may make regulations concerning all or any of
the under mentioned subjects —
(a) (1) examining plans specifications and information in relation with installations or
proposed installations.
(2) The issue of licenses under this statute.
(3) Levy of fees for inspection required and for implementation.
(b) Specification of standards or criteria for the carrying out of any environmental policy or
classification for the protection of the environment and for safeguarding beneficial uses.
(c) Specification of standards or criteria for concluding whether any matter, action or a
thing is poisonous, objectionable, deferential to health or come within any other
s\description or referred to in this statute.
(d) Prohibition of the discharging emission or depositing in to the environment of any
matter whether solid, liquid gaseous or of radio activity and probation of or otherwise
regulating unitization of any specified fuel.
(e) Specification of ambient air quality standard and emissary standards and the
specification of the maximum permissible concen tration of any matter might be
present in or discharging in to the at mosphere.
(f) Prohibition of any machine facility vehicle or boat to be used which is capable of causing
pollution or regulating the construction installation or operation thereof 50 as to
prevent or minimize pollution.
(g) Necessity to issue notices of alert or warning relating to pollution.
(h) Prohibiting or regulating of the burning in open the refuse or easily combustible materials.
(i) Regulation of places for the disposal of  liquid or solid waste interior or on the surface
(j) The conclusion of hazardous noises on medium scale.
(k) Regulation or the prohibition of  bathing  swimming and boat riding in any water resource
for  preventing pollution or hazardous to health or welfare or  leading to contradictory cultural
influences.
The course of
action regarding
the punishment
imposed on e.
beneficed
officer acted
under the order
of the authority
Punishing those
who breach the
rules and
regulations of
the statute
The farming of
regulations by
the Subject
Minister

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -24.06.2011
(l) Requirement that the oil refineries carrying on business fixing such equipment as
may be prescribed for reducing or preventing any trade affluent from containing oil.
(m) Prescribing the procedure with regard to appeals against the conclusion of the
authority.
(n) Arrangements for exhibiting notices and instituting provisions for cleaning of lands
and buildings and fixing a procedure for regularization of procedure for land
unitization and land usage with regard to visual amenities in urban and rural areas.
(o) Storage and transportation of harmful materials.
(p) Disposal of wagers, and hazardous materials either to atmosphere wasters or soil.
(q) Tree planting and cutting, home gardening cultivation in barren land, establishment of
tree clusters protection of trees and maintenance.
(r) Requirement of specific environmental monitoring duties by a development officer or
definite third party delegated for such work.
(3) Every regulation made by the Provincial minister dealing with the subject shall be published
in the gazette  and shall be coming in to effect on the date on such publication or upon a
later date being specified in the regulations.
(4) Every regulation made by the Subject Minister shall be brought before the Provincial Council for
approval having punished same in the gazette every regulation which has not been approved
shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such rejection but without prejudice
to anything previously done there under. If any regulation has been in effect before such
rescinding a notification of the date on which any regulation is deemed to be rescinded
shall be published in the gazette.
Interpretations:—
Environment :-  Lands, Water, Soil Atmosphere, climate, taste, Adour and all sorts of physical features
relating to creatures and the surroundings.
Land :- Habitats, buildings and all easement relating thereto and all sorts of lands
occupied or unoccupied and crown lands granted by the government.
'Building :- Houses, faction, parapet wall or any construction.
Local Government :- Municipality Council, Urban Council, Pradeshiya sabha or any institute or sabha
   established instead of it.
Pollution : - Means causing any unbeneficial influence to the environment by discharge,
emission, or the deposit of wasted so as to effect any beneficial use adversely
or to cause a situation which is hazardous or potentially hazardous to public
health safety or welfare or to wild creatures, birds, animals, wildlife, plants,
vegetation, aquatic life.
Noise Pollution : - Includes causing or allowing to cause any sound at a level which causes
irritation. Fatigue, hearing losses or interferes with the perception of other kinds
of sounds with creative activity through distraction or which breaking attention
or contemplation.
The
publication of
the orders of
the Subject
Minister in
gazette  and the
implementation
of same.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'06'24
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.06.2011
22A
Air Pollution :- Emission of any obnoxious or dour or smoke or gaseous material containing
hazardous particles causing undesirable change in the physical chemical and
biological characteristics of air which will adversely effect plants, animals
human beings and inanimate objects or respiratory inconveniences.
Waste :- Means untreated feces and urine garbage particles or portions of animals or plants
industrial or agriculture poisonous chemicals, or tremnants of materials or
the materials used for the business or the enterprise, gashouse materials,
liquid steam, or smoke which is undesirable for public health and environment.
Poisonous :- Means soil material, liquid or a gas which causing a unbeneficial influences on
living beings or capable of causing any hazardous charge in the
environment.
Reservoirs :- Means any river, tank, ancients, ponds canals wells, Springs and all other water
resource or a store.
Subject Minister  :- Means the Provincial Minister in North Central Province in charge of environmental
affairs.
Secretary :- Means the Administrative Director all as Secretary of the Provincial Environmental
Authority and Provincial Environment Advisory Council or the Officer holding
such office.
Chairman :- Means the Chairman of the Provincial Environmental Authority  alias the  officer
in charge as such.
Relevant Minister :-  means Provincial Minister holding the relevant Office.
Working Director :-means full time Director assisting the Chairman in the discharge of duties
of the Provincial Environmental Authority and in public relation affairs and
Planning.
07-230
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
Chemicals