

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1777$38 - 2012 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'09'28
No. 1777/38  — FRIDAY    SEPTEMBER  28,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
LDB 132/29(II)
PUBLIC   SERVICE    MUTUAL   PROVIDENT   ASSOCIATION   ORDINANCE
RULES   made by the Public Service Mutual Provident Association under Section 16 of the Public Service Mutual Provident
Association Ordinance (Chapter 283) and approved by the Minister of Finance and Planning
P. B. JAY ASUNDARA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Colombo,
14th July, 2012.
Rules
The rules published in Gazette No. 5147 dated 17th June, 1892 as amended as from time to time and last amended by Gazette No.
1548 dated 02nd May 2008 are hereby further amended as follows :
The rules published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 1662/16 of July 14, 2010 are hereby rescinded
(1) Under the heading Chapter I - General Rules
(a) in rule (i) by the substitution for the words and figures “40 years or under” of the words as figures “45
years or under” ;
(b) in rule I (ii) by the substitution for the words and figures “40 years or under” of the words and figures “45
years or under” ;
(c) rule 3 is hereby rescinded and the following rule is substituted therefor :
“Each member shall be issued with a passbook. It shall be in the form of a printed specimen provided
by the Association or created or generated with an electronic device” ;
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Government  Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
2A
(d) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (ii) of rule 4, of the following new paragraph :
(iii) It shall be lawful to adopt an accumulated special savings with a monthly deposit of rupees one
hundred (Rs. 100/-) in addition to monthly charged meager. The interest rate of the per centum (10%)
pre annum shall be paid. After the completion of two years of maturity, the deposit could be withdrawn
or a loan could be obtained from the deposit at the interest rate of twelve per centum (12%) per
annum”
(e) in rule 6 -
(1) the paragraph (i) of subrule (A) is hereby rescinded and the following paragraph is substituted
therefor :
“A member who is retired or terminated his service due to removal of the cadre from the government
service and lost the membership under the rule 7(a), on the completion of fifty five years of age is
entitled to withdraw the balance sum of money after deducting from the deposit of the meager and its
interest credited to that under rule 12 and the amount to be settled from all loans or advances
obtained under rule 13. Thereafter, he shall be known as a “Donatory Member”. If he wishes to pay
the meager he shall be known as a “Contribution Donatory Member”
(2) the paragraph (ii) of subrule (A) is hereby rescinded and the following paragraph is substituted
therefor :
“An option of not withdrawing the meager and its interest as rule 6(a)(ii), instead of all loans
and advances obtained under the rule 12 and rule 3 need to be deposited and he can continue to be
an ordinary member :
(f) in rule 7 -
(1) in paragraph (b)(ii), by the substitution for the words and figures “eight per centum per annum” of
the words and figures “ten per centum per annum” ;
(2) the paragraph (c)(ii) of that rule is hereby rescinded and the following paragraph is substituted
therefor :
“Any member who has no spouse, legitimate child, nearest any relative or legal heir, may
nominate any person or an institution for an entitlement of death donation payable under rule 10.
Any nomination forwarded one month before the date of his death shall be valid”
(g) by the substitution for the paragraph (d) of rule 10(a)(ii) thereof, of the following paragraph :
“The committee of Management may decide or utilizing the excess money of the Death Donation
Augmentation Reserve Fund for granting loans to the members or investing in the investment approved
by the Treasury. The interest accrued shall be credited to the Death Donation Augmentation Reserve
Fund. If the money of the Death Donation Augmenatation Reserve Fund is to be utilized for granting loans
to the members, such fund shall be used for loans based on salary as rule 13(ii)(b) and one  percent (1%)
from the interest shall be deducted as administrative cost and the balance shall be credited annually to the
Death Donation Augmentation Reserve Fund”
(h) in rule 13 -
(1) by the substitution for paragraphs (ii) thereof, of the following paragraphs :

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
“(a) Where a loan is granted under rule 13(i) as specified in the “loans entitlement” table given
below, such loan amount shall not be higher than the maximum amount specified in column II
or column III of that table
(b) A member (retired and membership contributions recompensed) who has been already granted
a loan under rule 13(a) and 14, a loan shall be entitled under the rule 13(ii)(a) and item 7 of the
table after the recovery of the balance sum with an interest on such loans ;
(c) A retired member who has been granted a loan under the rule 13(ii)(a), shall not be entitled for
any loan under any rule 13(A) to 13(1) except rule 13(E)
(d) The maximum aggregate of any loan which could be obtained under this rule, shall not exceed
twelve times of the member's gross salary or pension”
LOANS    ENTITLEMENTS
Period of Contribution less Contribution more No. of Installments Other relevant
Membership than 5% than 5% for recovery requirements
Column i Column ii Column iii Column iv Column v
01 Less than year Rs. 5,000 Rs. 10,000 10 A member with more than
5 years membership shall
be produced as a
guarantor
02 Less than 1-3 years Rs. 15,000 Rs. 20,000 20 do
03 Less than 3-5 years Combined of 2 Combined salary 36 Shall be confirmed in
moths  of 3 months the post. A member
(Maximum  (Maximum with more than 5 year
Rs. 25,000) Rs. 30,000) membership shall be
produced as a guarantor
04 Less than 5-7 years Combined salary Combined salary/ 48 shall be confirmed
/pension of 4 pension of 5 in the post
months months
(Maximum (Maximum
Rs. 40,000) Rs. 50,000)
05 Less than 7-12 years Combined salary/ Combined salary/ 48 do
pension of 6 pension of 8
months months
(Maximum  (Maximum
Rs. 60,000) Rs. 70,000)
06 More than 12 years Combined/pension Combined/pension 48 do
of six months of 8 months
(Maximum Maximum
Rs. 80,000) Rs. 1,00,000
4—G 16672

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
4A
07 For a member who Pension of three Pension of five 48 Shall be recovered from
has retired before months months the pension. Restricted
reaching the age of (Maximum (Maximum to a half of the
55 years and set off Rs. 15,000) Rs. 30,000) contribution
loans against 5% contribution
contribution until shall be paid continually
he/she reaches the
age of 55
08 For a donatory Pension four 48 Not entitled to obtain
member who has not months loans under rule 14.
obtained loans under (Maximum Installments shall be
rule 14 Rs. 25,000) recovered from the
pension
09 For a donatory Pension of four 48 Not entitled to obtain
member below 35 months loans under rule 14.
years who has not (Maximum Installments shall be
obtained loans under Rs. 35,000) recovered from the
rule 14 pension.
10 For a donatory Pension four 48 Not entitled to obtain
member who has months loans under rule 14.
recover the  (Maximum Installments shall be
contribution and Rs. 35,000) recovered from the
contribution again pension
(2) the paragraph (vii) of that rule is hereby rescinded and the following paragraph is substituted
therefor :
“Except for any salary loan obtained under rule 12 and 13(i) the monthly installments of other
loans for months of April and December shall be recovered as specified” ;
(3) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (vii) of the  following new paragraph :
“(viii) The President may grant a further loans for a member who pays 10% or more from his basic
salary as contribution as specified in rule 4, if any loan granted to him under rules 12 and 13
does not exceed the aggregate of the contribution and the accrued dividends indicated in the
books of the Association against his name”
(4) by the insertion immediately after rele 13(A) of spouse and unmarried children as beneficaries and by
the substitution of the following rule :
(i) by the substitution for the words “monthly installments” of the words “monthly interest free
installment”
(ii) by the substitution for the words “3 months” of the words “six months”
(iii) by the renumbering of 13(A) as 13(A)(i) ;
Period of Contribution less Contribution more No of Installments Other relevant
Membership than 5% than 5% for recovery requirements
Column i Column ii Column iii Column iv Column v

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
(iv) by the addition immediately after paragraph (i) of rule 13(A), of the following paragraph :
“(ii) A loan of rupees fifty thousand (Rs. 50,000) at 8% interest recoverable in 40 consecutive
installments may be granted in addition to the amount indicated for the distress loan
referred to in rule 13(A)” ;
(5) (i) in paragraph (1) of rule 13(B) thereof, by the substitution for the words and figures “one year
membership” of the words and figures “one year of membership” and for the words and
figures “Rs. 10,000” of the words and figures “Rs. 50,000” respectively :
(ii) by the renumbering of 13(B) as 13(B)(i) ;
(iii) by the addition of a new paragraph as follows :
“(ii) A member who has not completed a membership of one year may obtain a loan by
submitting a guarantee of a member who has a membership of more than five years”
(6) by the substitution for the rule 13(C) thereof, of the following rule :
“A festival advance of Rs. 10,000 recoverable in ten  (10) monthly installments with specified interest
could be granted to any member who has completed a membership of one year”
(7) (i) in rule 13(D) by the substitution for words and figures “Rs. 10,000” of the words and figures
“Rs. 50,000”
(ii) by the substitution for the figure “8%” of the figure “10%”
(iii) by the substitution for the figure “3” of the figure “6”
(8) rule 13(F) is hereby rescinded and the following rule is substituted therefor :
“A loan not exceeding of Rs. 7,500 on interest shall be granted to a member in the event of the
birth of member's first and second child provided the birth certificate of the child is forwarded to the
Association within a year of the birth. This loans shall be recoverable in 24 monthly installments :
(9) in rule 13(G) by the substitution for the words and figures “rupees ten thousand (Rs. 10,000)” of the
words and figures “rupees fifty thousand (Rs. 50,000) and for the words and figures “in 36 equal
monthly installments” of the words and figures “in 40 equal monthly installment” and for the words
and figures “eleven per centum (11%) of the words and figures “ten per centum (10%)” ;
(10) by the insertion immediately after the rule 13(G) of the following new rules :
“(H) Any member who has completed two years of membership be granted a loan up to rupees five thousand
(Rs. 5,000) for the purpose of spectacles for such member, spouse or unmarried children. The loan shall be
repaid in twenty installments (20) with interest at the rate of ten (10%) per centum per annum. This loan
shall be renewable once in five years and shall be granted to contributory members also :
Provided, however that this loan shall be granted only after taking into account the possibility of
deducting the installments from the monthly salary of the member subject to the maximum deduction limit
of 40% of his monthly salary.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
6A
(I) (i) The Association may grant loans to individuals or groups for pilgrimages (overseas) organized by
recognized institutions such as Bank of Ceylon or People's Bank by up to a maximum of rupees fifty
thousand (Rs. 50,000). The balance expenditure on the tour shall be deposited with the Association
as a lump sum and the total cost of air-ticket shall be paid by the Association.
(ii) The members who have completed five years membership and whose services have been confirmed
shall be entitled for this benefit.
(iii) The total loan amount shall be repaid in 25 consecutive installments together with interest at 15% per
annum.
(iv) A Contributory member with five years membership shall be a Guarantor.
(j) (i) If is lawful to grant loans to members for local tours or pilgrimages, purchase of house hold furniture
and equipment and redden of jewelry which are pawned
(ii) Any member who has completed two years membership shall be eligible ;
(iii) The maximum loan amount shall be Rs. 30,000
(iv) The total loan amount shall be repaid in twenty consecutive monthly installments with an interest
rate of fifteen per centum (15%) per annum.
(v) A Contributory member with two years membership shall be a guarantor”
(i) by the insertion immediately after the rule 13(J) of the following new rule  :-
“K (i) A special advance of rupees ten thousand recoverable in 10 installments may be paid to a member
who has completed five years of membership and confirmed in the public service, for purchasing
books and stationary for their children. Interest is ten per centum (10%) per annum :
Provided any member who as not completed five years of membership may obtain this loan by
submitting a guarantor who has  five years of membership.
(ii) A member may be granted a loan of Rs. 75,000 for a purchasing of a computer. This loan shall be
recoverable in fifty installments and interest is ten per centum (10%) per annum. A member who has
not completed five years of membership shall submit a guarantor who has five years of membership.
(j) in rule 14 -
(1) by the substitution for the words and figure “simple interest at three per centum (3%) of the words
and figures “simple interest at four per centum (4%)
(2) in paragraph (1) thereof, by the substitution for the words and figures “twenty five senior most
members” of the words and figures. “fifty senior most members” and for the words and figures “out-
right grant of rupees Two Thousand five Hundred (Rs. 2,500) each” of the words and figures  “out
- right grant of rupees five thousand (Rs. 5,000) each”
(3) in paragraph (2), thereof, by the substitution for the words and figures period of three months of the
words and figures “period of six months” ;

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
(4) in paragraph (iii) of 14(3) is hereby rescinded and the following paragraph is substituted therefore ;
“A certificate issued by the Medical Practitioner shall confirm that he has performed the
surgery to save the member from a  dangerous situation ;
(5) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (iv) of rule 14(3) of the following new paragraphs
(v) The Medical donation shall not be granted for an eye surgery”
(vi) The Medical donation shall be granted for an eye surgery” ;
(6) by the insertion immediately after the rule 14(3) of the following new rules :-
“(4) The Committee of Management may decide to grant any medical donation subject to the
financial condition of the Association”
“(5) A member who has received maximum donation of Rs. 50,000 which can be obtained during
the life time and resigned from the membership shall sign a deceleration that he shall pay the balance
in cash after the deduction of his contribution to the medical Donation Fund” (at the receipt of
medical donation)
(k) in rule 15, by the substitution  for the words and figures “shall be repayable in not more than sixty
consecutive monthly installment each of which shall not be less than two rupees  of the words and figures
shall be repayable in not exceeding forty eight consecutive monthly installments ;
(l) by the insertion immediately after the paragraph (ii) of rule 16 of the following new paragraph :
“(iii) The members who are unable to remit their loan installments and interest from their monthly salary or
pension for the loans obtained under rule 12 and 13 and property loan obtained under Chapter (ii),
due to personal reasons with the permission of the President or an officer authorized by him in
writing may pay due amount to the nearest banker to the Society for three consecutive months.
However, the contribution of death donation installment and medical donation shall be remitted
from the salary”
(m) the paragraph (ii) of rule 17 is hereby rescinded and the following paragraph is substituted therefor :
“A general reserve fund shall be established to waive off an amount (which is equivalent to an
interest charged at nought point five Percent (0.5%)  in every financial year) in respect of any loan, granted
under the rules 13 and 14. The Committee of Management shall decide the amount of money to be
deposited in such fund”
(n) by the insertion immediately after the renumbered rule 18(i), of the following new paragraph :
(ii) Every application shall be duly completed, sign and annex to the agreement and submit the same with
duly completed guarantee bond” as the case may be.
(o) the paragraph (i) of rule 19 is hereby rescinded and the following paragraphs are submitted therefor :
“(i) A share of net Profit determined by the management committee shall be allocated to the building
fund.
(ii) If any loan is granted from the building fund to any member, a loan from the salary, specified under
rule 13, shall be utilized, and one per centum (1%) shall be deducted from the interest charged for that
period as expense for administrative purpose. The balance shall be paid up annually to the Building
Fund.
(iii) It shall be lawful to remit 5% interest which shall be credited to the balance and interest due to the
saving account of every member's (individual) account as at December 31, of every year. The interest
rate shall be paid proportionately to the member, who cancels his membership or upon his death
5—G 16672

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
8A
occurs in that year. The Committee of Management shall revise the interest rate with the due
consideration on the income of the Society”
(p) in rule 22, by the substitution for the words and figures “one hundred members” of the words and figures
“sixty members”
(q) by the insertion immediately after rule 25 of the following new paragraphs :
“(i) Every nomination received by post and by hand shall be put into a box by the Joint Secretary and the
Treasurer and sealed thereafter. The box of nominations shall be opened at the meeting of the
Committee of Management on closing date of nominations as in rule 25. The candidate may present
at this occasion.
“(ii) The candidate or any other person of the society shall not alter any nomination paper after its
submission, The candidate should be informed about rejection of nomination in writing” ;
(r) by the insertion immediately after the rule 25(ii), of the following new rule :-
“26 (i) The Committee of Management shall have power to appoint members from any district,
department or Divisional Secretaries Division as representative of the Association to co-
ordinate the activities of the Association.”
(ii) The representative may be entrusted with recruitment of members from Public Service, Provincial
Public Service or Local Government Service”.
(iii) The representatives shall not accept any money and members who are appointed as
representatives shall enter into an agreement with the Committee of Management. The
Committee of Management shall have the authority to pay an allowance to representatives.
(iv) The duties of representatives are as follows :
(a) to create an awareness among members about the activities of the Association
(b) to forward loan application ;
(c) to inform the Association about member's death etc. ;
(s) by the insertion immediately after the rule 26 of the following new rules :
“27.Accounts of the Association shall be audited by an qualified Auditor appointed by the Committee of
Management
28. (i) The employees of the Association, may be paid an Annual Bonus from “Bonus Fund” and an
amount approved by the Committee of Management shall be credited to this fund annually. A
separate bank accounts shall be maintained for this fund.
(ii) A bonus shall be paid with the approval of the Committee of Management and membership of
at the Annual General Meeting”.
(2) (a) Under the heading Chapter II - by the insertion immediately after the rule 3, of the following rule :
“For the purposes of this rule “Legal Adviser” mean, any Attorney-at-Law in Panel of Lawyers
appointed by the Committee of Management” ;

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
(b) paragraph (i) of rule 5 is hereby rescinded and the following paragraph is substituted therefor :
“The interest charged for the first Rs. 50,000 shall be 10% per annum. The interest charged for the
balance Rs. 4,50,000 shall be 12% per annum”
(c) in rule 8, by the substitution for the words and figures “a minimum fee being Rs 5 of the words and
figures “a minimum fee being Rs 500 to each appraiser.
(d) rule 10 is hereby rescinded and the following rule is substituted therefor :
(i) The loan shall be repaid in 240 (maximum) monthly installments ;
(ii) The loan and interest shall be recovered from monthly salary as calendar month installments ;
(iii) Compute the number of days from the date the loan was released to the end of that month and
calculate the interest for such number of days as rule 5 and that amount shall be recovered at
the time of releasing the loan ;
(iv) If the payment of the installment of the principal and the interest is defaulted before the tenth
day of the month following the due months, the installment and interest shall be deemed in
default. If the default is more than three months, the Committee of Management shall take
necessary action to recover the arrears ;
(v) If an installment of the principal and interest is in default for a period of six consecutive
months, legal action shall be taken by the Attorney-at-Law of Panel appointed by the
Association to recover the default amount. Every expense incurred for this shall be recovered
form the creditor and this shall be conveyed to him by registered post ;
(e) the paragraph (i) of rule 12 is hereby rescinded and the following rule is substituted herefor :
“the property loan shall be limited to rupees four hundred thousand (Rs. 400,000). If both the applicant
and spouse being employed in the Public Service Mutual Provident Association both are be collectively
entitled for a loan of rupees five hundred thousand (Rs. 500,000) only
(3) Under the heading Chapter III -
(a) by the insertion immediately after the rule 3, of the following new rule :
“(i) If any child of a member is eligible for a scholarship, the monthly installment payable to the
Association from such member should be continued. The scholarship granted to the child may
be cancelled if the member's contribution is in arrears for three months”
(b) by the insertion immediately after the rule 8, of the following new rule :
“9. Except those eligible under the rules 4 and 8, any other child of a member may forward an application
for a sum of Rs. 2,000 which shall be granted only once for studies. The Committee of Management
shall have power to pay this amount subject to the annual provision of the fund”
(4) by the insertion immediately after the chapter 111, of the following new Chapter :

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
10A
Chapter IV : loan for staff/employees
Distress loan
1. An amount equal to ten times of gross salary of an employee shall be granted for treatment of an illness or any
other cause of distress of an employee or his family member.
(i) The loan shall be repaid in 100 installments at an interest rate of eight per centum (8%) per annum.
(ii) An interest shall be charged as on the date of the loan and the first month of recovery or the total interest
is charged on the scheduled rate for the number of days
(iii) After the lapse of 06 months from the date the principal amount is granted, the recovered balance can be
obtained.
(iv) If period of service on completion of 55 years of age is less than 100 calendar months, a declaration
consenting for the payment of balance from his gratuity shall be given.
(v) A 40% of his salary limit shall be applicable
(vi) If any employee has a service of five years, a guarantor is not required.
(vii) If guarantor is required, once or two employees with a service of more than five years should be produced
as guarantors”
Bicycle loan
2. Any employee may be granted a loan of Rs. 6000 to purchase a bicycle
(i) The loan shall be repaid in 20 monthly installments at an interest rate of ten per centum (10%) per annum ;
(ii) This loan could be obtained once in five years subject to the 40% the limit of his monthly salary.
Mobile Phone loan
3. Any employee may be granted a loan of Rs. 10,000 to purchase a mobile phone
(i) The loan shall be repaid in 20 monthly installment at an interest rate of ten per centum (10%) per annum.
(ii) This land could be obtained once in two years.
Stationary Loan
4. Any employee may be granted a loan of Rs. 2,500 to for purchasing books and stationary for his children.
(i) The loan is repaid in monthly installation of Rs. 250 and at an interest rate of nine point one seven per
centum (9.17%) per annum ;
(ii) The loan is repaid in 10 monthly installments and should be applied before the end of January each year ;
(iii) It shall not be granted until the repayment of earlier loan.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'28
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.09.2012
Festival  Advance
5. An employee may be granted a loan not exceeding of Rs. 5,000 as festival advance.
(i) This loan may be granted for an annual festival ;
(ii) It shall be recovered before the same festival of the coming year ;
(iii) An interest is eight per centum (8%) ;
(iv) An officer  or employee with a service of more than 3 months is eligible and a guarantor with more than five
years is required.
(v) This loan may be obtained in the following year 14 days before the date of the previous year
6. General conditions for granting loans shall be as follows :
(i) The loan shall be used only for the particular purpose ;
(ii) If there is any balance, it shall be deposited in cash ;
(iii) Every necessary document should be submitted with the loan application ;
(iv) The property, which is acquired from loan shall not be disposed of, without the approval of the Committee
of Management until the total repayment of the loan.
(v) The guarantor shall not be released if he vacate from his service until a suitable guarantor is produced.
7. (1) The loan Application form shall consist of :
(i) a general loan application ;
(ii) a guaranty form ;
(iii) an agreement ;
(2) Every loans installment and interest shall be deducted monthly from applicant's salary ;
(3) The loan  installment shall be deducted an every month including the months of April and December.
(4) The Committee of Management shall have power to approve any loan.
 10 - 574
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.