

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'28
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 28.07.2017
89
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 90
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"030- 2017 cQ,s ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'07'28                                                                                                        
No. 2,030 - FRIDAy , JULy 28,  2017
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.                
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  18th  August  2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th August, 2017.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
89 - B 81192-353 (2017/07)
N. B.-  (i)  Parts II and  IV (A) of the  Gazette No. 2029  of  21.07.2017 were  not  Published. 
Note.–   K. K. Piyadasa Foundation (Incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 21, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'28
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 28.07.2017
90
miscellaneous Lands notices
 (c) this lease  must also  be subject  to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated  and  imposed by the  Divisional 
Secretary and  by other  institutions;
 (d)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair ;
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (f)  No sub - leasing can be  done  until  the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years, from  12.06.2017  ; 
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse;
  
 If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which  this  notice is published  
in the  Gazette  to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
Y . Y . N. Perera, 
 Assistant  Land Commissioner
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura", Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6,
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
28th  July,  2017.
07-793
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/48436.
Provincial   Land  Commissioner's  No.: PLC/LP/
LD/4/1/32/874.     
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that  Part of the  Land  and  building  
for  Commercial Purpose Regional Development Bank 
has  requested on lease a state land  containing in  extent 
a b o u t  2 4  P e r c h e s  m a r k e d  a s  l o t   N o .  C  a s  d e p i c t e d  i n                                             
Plan No. Nu/Prale/2013/42 and  situated in the village of 
Hedenhill with  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division 
of  No. 535L,  Nuwara Elia West  coming within the  area 
of authority of  Nuwara Eliya   Divisional Secretariat in the  
District of  Nuwara Eliya. 
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Lot  No. B;
On the East by : Lot B and  D ;
On the  South by :  Lot No. B  and Government  Official 
Residence complex land ;
On the West by : Government  Official Residence 
complex land. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other Government approved                
conditions : - 
    Term  of the Lease.– Thirty (30) Years ,  ( From 
12.06.2017).
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  undeveloped 
value of the  land  as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year of 2017. this amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that amount  
as  a result of the  revision will be not  less than  50% 
of the amount that just preceded.  
Premium .-  treble of the annual amount of the  lease  ; 
 (a)  the lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (b) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  
other than for  the purpose of  Commercial   ;
 Land Commissioner General's No :- 4/10/52200
Provincial Land Commissioner's No :- EP/28/LB/LS/
tri/t&G/187.
noTIfIcATIon mADe unDeR STATe LAnD 
ReGuLATIon no. 21 (2)
It is hereby notified that for the purpose of Establish and 
conducting training center National Construction Association 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'07'28
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 28.07.2017
91
of Sri Lanka has requested on lease a state land containing 
in extent about 20 perches out of extent marked lot No. A 
as depicted in the tracing No. PLC/EP/28/SUR/2016/86               
Situated in the village of Palauththu 243 H with  belongs  
to the  Grama Niladhari Division of Palayuthtu coming 
within the area of authority of town and Gravets Divisional 
Secretariat in the District of trincomalee.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested:
 
On the North by : Lot 904 (part) in FVP 15
On the East by : Lot 904 (part) in FVP 15
On the South by : Reservation  Along High tension  
  Power Line
On the West by : Road (P.S.)
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the government has instead to lease out 
the land subject to other government approved conditions.
 (a) Terms of the lease .-  thirty years. (30) (from 
29.06.2017 Onwards)
 The annual rent of the lease.- 4% of the market value of the 
land as per valuation of the chief valuer for the year 2017 
this amount of the lease must be quinquennially revised 
in such a manner that the amount as a result of the revision 
will be not less than 50% of the amount that just preceded.
 Premium.-  three times of the annual rent of the lease
 (b) the lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary.
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes 
other than for the purpose of Establish and conducting 
training center 
 (d) this lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/Scoping committee/ Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka and by other institutions.
 (e) the buildings constructed and construction must be 
maintained in a proper state of repair.
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease.
 (g) No  sub – leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years.
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date which this Notice is published 
in the Gazette to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
 
a.K.N. SewwaNdi amaraSeKara,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 For Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General's Department,
''Mihikatha Medura'' , Land Secretariat, 1200/6,
Rajamalwatta Rd, Battaramulla.
28 July 2017.
07-992
PRINTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.