

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1241 
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 1228
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"192 – 2020 iema;eïn¾ ui 04 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'09'04
No. 2,192  –  fRiday , sEPtEmbER 04, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th september, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th september, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1225 - b 82055- 5,403 (09/2020)
N. B.–  Part ii and iV (a) of the Gazette No. 2,191 of 28.08.2020 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1226
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1227
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1228
Posts – vacant
PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION
Limited recruitment to the Post of head Quarter’s 
Sports Officers in the Department of Sports 
Development – 2020
as directed Public service commission, application 
are called from the government officers who have the 
qualifications for 09 (nine) posts of Head Quarter’s Sports 
Officer, in the Management Assistant Supra Grade (MN 
– 07 – 2016) of Sports Officers combined service in the 
department of sports development.
01. Qualifications :
1.1. Educational, Professional qualifications and 
experience :
i. category i – should be a supervisory 
management assistant technology 
Grade I Officer of Sports officers 
combined service in department of 
sports development ;
or
ii. category ii – should be a 
supervisory management assistant 
Technology Grade II Officer of 
Sports officers combined service in 
department of sports development 
with 08 (eight) years active and 
satisfactory period of service ;
or
iii. category iii – should be a 
supervisory management assistant 
Technology Grade III Officer of 
Sports officers combined service in 
department of sports development 
with 05 (five) years active and 
satisfactory period of service and 
should have obtain a sports or 
management related degree from 
a university recognized by the 
University Grant commission.
N.B. : according to the category applied, the marking 
format for the service experience is in the 
descriptive marking scheme.
1.2. Physical Qualifications : candidates should 
be of sound physical and mental condition to 
serve in any part of the island.
1.3. Other Qualifications :
 I Post should have been confirmed.
 ii candidate should not have been 
punished on disciplinary grounds in 
terms of Public service commission 
circular No. 01/2020. 
 iii should have past the required 
efficiency bar examinations.
(a) for grade iii sports coach 
should have passed the first 
efficiency bar examination 
within 03 years from the 
recruitment,
(b) for grade ii sports coach 
should have passed the second 
efficiency bar examination 
within 03 years from the 
recruitment,
(c) for grade i sports coach should 
have passed the third  efficiency 
bar examination within 03 
years from the recruitment.
 iV should have obtained language 
proficiency at required level.
 V should have completed all the 
qualifications required to the post as at 
the date of calling applications.
02. Age Limit : Not relevant
03. this post carries the salary scale of Rs.41,580-
11x775-18x1,030-Rs.68,425 (mN-07-2016) according 
to the schedule i of the Public administration circular 
No.03/2016 of 25.02.2016 salaries are paid according to the 
provisions in the schedule ii thereof. in addition to this, you 
are entitled to the other allowances paid by the government, 
from time to time to the Public Officers.
04. Recruitment procedure candidate :  candidates, 
who have completed qualifications as stated in the notice, 
will be recruited according to the sequence of total 
marks in the descriptive marking scheme obtained at the 
competency evaluation interview, which will be conducted 
by an interview board appointed by the Public service 
commission.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1229
dEscRiPtiVE maRkiNG scHEmE   
Maximum 
Marks 
01. additional service Experience
i. marks will be given for the candidates who have applied the category i of 1.1 for the total service 
period in Grade i and/or Grade ii as given below.
(a) for the active and satisfactory service period in the post of sports 
  coach Grade i                                                                                     - 05 marks per each year
(b) for the active and satisfactory service period in the post of sports coach Grade ii in addition 
to the active and satisfactory 08 years as Grade ii sports coach    - 03 marks per each year
ii. for the candidates who have apply under category i in the 1.1 of the above
(a) for the active and satisfactory service period in the post of sports coach Grade ii in addition 
to the active and satisfactory 08 years as Grade ii sports coach      - 03 marks per each year
III. For the candidates who have not fulfilled the active and satisfactory 08 years’ service in the Grade 
ii and apply under the category iii
(a) 03 marks for the each year with active and satisfactory service in the Grade ii
(b) for the satisfactory in Grade iii, in addition to the active and satisfactory 05 years as a sport 
coach.                                                                                                  - 01 mark per each year
iV . for candidates those who are presently in the Grade iii and apply under category iii active and 
satisfactory 05 years’ service in the post of sports coach Grade iii.
(a) for the satisfactory in Grade iii, in addition to the active and satisfactory 05 years as a 
sport coach.                                                                                  - 01 mark per each year
30
02. Additional Educational Qualifications 
courses followed under sports administration or management,
 (i) Local / international Post Graduate degree in sports science / sports management / 
management / administration / sports administration (masters / management Level)
                                                                                                                                 - 25 marks
 (ii) Local / international degree in sports science / sports management / management / 
administration / sports administration                                                                                    
                                                                                                                                    - 20 marks
 (iii) Higher diploma ( Local / international)                                                                  - 15 marks
* Marks will be given for only one maximum qualification.
* marks will not be given for courses / degrees considered for the recruitment or for the basic 
qualifications required for this promotion.
* Documents must be submitted for the confirmation.
25

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1230
Maximum 
Marks 
03. special skills exposed in the post of sports coach
i. for the moments / opportunities participated in as a coach / administrator / manager / Judge                                                  
                                                                                                                              - maximum 10 marks
i. olympic Games                                                                                           - 05 marks each
ii. World championships                                                                                 - 04 marks each
iii. asian or commonwealth Games / Paralympic                                           - 03 marks each 
iv. south asian Games or championships / Para asian                                   - 02 marks each 
v. National Level                                                                                               - 01 mark each
        (National sports festival /  National championships – sports associations)
* marks will be given for only 02 maximum opportunities / moments.
* Documents should be provided for the confirmation.
for maintaining District / Provincial Sports Pools
ii. same number of sportsmen / sportswomen in the pools must be trained continuously at least six 
month and marks will be given as follows. the pools should not be contained with one team 
which represent only one school and they should have gained achievement by participating in 
District Level Competitions. (Should have been confirmed by the Provincial Director of Sports / 
Provincial secretary of sports)
                                                                                                                        - maximum 06 marks
No. of pooled sportsmen / sportswomen 
Less than 20     - 01 mark
20 – 30             - 02 marks
30 – 40             - 03 marks 
40 – 50             - 04 marks
more than 50   - 06 marks
III. For commended certificates (General 230 B format) 02 marks for one certificate.                                                          
                                                                                                                                -maximum 04 marks
20
04 additional service Experience
for creating National or international Level sportsmen / sportswomen winners.
i. Representation sri Lanka for the olympics – 15 marks
        (Per athletic)
ii.  World championships
                                        Individual                     Team Events
1
st Place                           10                                    08
2nd Place                          08                                    06
3rd Place                           06                                    04
iii. asian or commonwealth Games / Paralympics
                                        Individual                     Team Events
1st Place                            08                                   04
2nd Place                            06                                  03
3rd Place                            04                                   02
20

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1231
Maximum 
Marks 
 iV .  south asian Games or championships / Para championships 
                                      Individual                     Team Events
1st Place                       03                                       1.5
2nd Place                       02                                    01
3rd Place                        01                                      0.5
V . National Level 
                                       Individual                     Team Events
1st Place                        10                                    08
2nd Place                        08                                    06
3rd Place                         06                                    04
Vi. National sports festival – Provincial Level
                                        Individual                     Team Events
1st Place                         02                                    01
2nd Place                         01                                     0.5
marks will be given according to one achievement / representation, stated under i – Vi above an 
according to the frequency of achievement / representation, maximum limit of 20 marks will be given.
further, marks will be given for the achievements in several sub sections, subject to a maximum limit 
of 20 marks.
The contribution of the applicant for this achievement should have to be proven with a certified copy 
of the certificate of the athlete and a letter with the signature of the winning sportsman / sportswoman.  
 
05. attitudes shown at the interview 
Leadership        02 marks
Personality        02 marks
communication 01 mark
05
Total 100
N. b. : Certificate/Qualifications submitted  for the 
recruitment to the post in Sports Officers combined service 
will not be considered again for giving marks. 
05. Service Conditions  :
5.1.  all the recruitments are subjected to conditions 
of the procedural rules and regulations of 
the Public service commission, which 
was published in the Extraordinary Gazette                                                               
No. 1589/30 of 20.02.2009 and the regulations 
in the Establishment code.
06. candidates should submit their applications 
prepared according to the specimen format appearing at the 
end of this notice, by registered post on or before 25.09.2020 
to the director General, department of sports development, 
No.09, Philip Gunewardene mawatha, colombo 07. on the 
top left hand corner of the envelop should bear the legend 
“Limited recruitment to the post of Head Quarters Sports 
Officer – 2020” The applicant should be duly completed. 
delayed applications will be rejected without notice.
complains to the effect that any application or a related 
document have been lost in the post / in transits will not be 
entertained. the applicant may bear the risk of delaying to 
send application up to dead line on their own. Receipt of the 
applications will not be acknowledged. 
07. if it is found that any information furnished by the 
applicant is false, he / she is liable to dismissed at any time 
from the public service. 
by the order of the Public service commission,
 W.
M. anuradha Wijekoon,
 secretary,
 ministry of youth and sports.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1232
Ministry of youth and sports
departMent of sports developMent
AppLiCATion foR The LimiTed ReCRuiTmenT To The poST of heAdquARTeRS SpoRTS offiCeR in The 
ManaGeMent aSSiStant  SuPra Grade (Mn – 7 – 2016) Of SPOrtS OfficerS cOMbined ServiceS in 
The depArtMent Of SPOrtS develOPMent
01. i. Name with initials :
  (a) in sinhala : ……………………………………………………………………..
  (b) in English : ……………………………………………………………………..
 ii. Names denoted by initials :
  (a) in sinhala : ……………………………………………………………………..
  (b) in English : ……………………………………………………………………..
02. i. Private address : ……………………………………………………………………..
 ii. Postal address for admissions  : ……………………………………………………...
 III. Official address  : ……………………………………………………………………
 IV . Telephone No : Mobile : ………………………. Office : ………………..……
03. Gender :
  Write in the relevant box
  male     - 0
  female - 1
04. National identity card No.: …………………………....
05. date of birth : y ear : …………    month : ………… date : …………..
06.  (a) Have you completed all the qualifications stated in the para 1.1. of the notice of calling application ?
  Educational, Professional qualification and experience
  State under which category you are qualified in 1.1. (I, II or III)
(b)  If you are qualified under category III of 1.1., submit information below :
 i. date of Graduation  : ………………………….................
 ii. University / institute  : …………………………………….
 iii. Registered No.  : …………………………………….
 iV . External / internal  : …………………………………….
 V . degree   : …………………………………….
 Vi. subjects   : ……………………………………..
submit the active and satisfactory service periods in each grade in the post of sports coach, as at the closing date of calling 
applications, in the table given below :
Serial 
No.
Grade Recruited / Promoted Date Active and satisfactory service period
01. Grade iii
02. Grade ii
03. Grade i

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1233
(c) Present post  : ………………………………………..
 Grade  : ………………………………………..
 date of appointment : ………………………………………..
 Date of confirmation in the post  : ………………………………………..
(d) in the terms of 1 st paragraph the notice of calling applications, active and satisfactory service period completed in 
the relevant grade in the post of sports coach.
 y ear :……………. month :…………… date : …………….
07. Additional Education Qualifications :
Serial 
No.
Qualifications University / Institute 
Obtained
Valid Date
01.
02.
03.
04.
08.  Additional Professional Qualifications (According to the Serial No. 04 of the descriptive marking scheme in the notice 
of calling applications.)
Serial 
No.
Tournament Year Individual / Team Place achievement
01.
02.
03.
04.
05.
09. i. Whether earned all requisite increments within 05 year immediately preceding. yes/No :...................................
 ii. Whether found guilty of any disciplinary action other than warnings :...................................
 iii. Whether obtain half pay or no pay leave within the service period :...................................
10. Applicant’s Certificate :
i do hereby certify that the information provided in this application are true and accurate. i am aware that i will 
be liable to disqualified to be recruited to this post and dismissed in the event such information is found to be false after 
appointment.
 ………………………………,  
 signature of applicant.
date :...................................
Should be completed by the head of the Department
1. Whether this officer has been subjected to any disciplinary actions within 05 years immediately proceeding actions 
are not begging instituted against him / her at present? Yes / No  :................................................................
2. If “yes” state information. ………………………………………………………………….
3. Has he / she obtained no pay leave during his / her service period? Yes / No :.....................................................
4. If “yes” write down the information on no pay leave obtained in the period of service.
………………………………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1234
Serial 
No.
Relevant Condition for granting leave Duration
From To
i Under Establishment code V:2:5:4
ii Under Establishment code Xii:16
iii management services circular No.10
iv management services circular No.33
v Under Establishment code Xii:36
vi other no pay leave 
5. i certify that this officer has earned / not earned all the increments within 05 years immediately proceeding as at the 
date of calling application.
as mr. /  mrs. / miss ………………………………… who is serving at this department as a ……………………… 
has completed / not completed all the required qualifications relevant for applying to the post of Headquarters Sports Officer 
in the Management Assistant  Supra Grade (MN – 7 – 2016) of sports officers combined services in the Department of Sports 
development. i hereby recommended /  not recommended this application.
 ………………………………;  
  signature of Head of department 
Official Frank.
date : ………………………
09–186
–––––––––––––––––––
hEALTh SERvICE COmmITTEE Of ThE PubLIC SERvICE 
COmmISSION
Recruitment to the post of Dental Surgeon in Grade II for the ministry of 
health - 2020
as per the order of the Health service committee of the Public service commission to 
fill the 87 identified vacancies out of 138 available in the post of Dental Surgeon (Grade 
ii) of sri Lanka Health service, applications are called by the ministry of Health from the 
applicants who satisfy the qualifications given under paragraph 04 herein. Applications 
prepared in accordance with the vacancy list for attachment and form for declaration of 
option appended at the end of this notification will be accepted on 22/09/2020 at Family 
Health Bureau auditorium On the above date from 9.00 a.m to 12.00 p.m officers of the 
office of Director (Dental Services) will assist in verifying your certificates and marking 
options for service stations. For further information you may contact office of Director 
(dental services) on the telephone number 0112-692846.
2. in terms of the Public administration circular No.03/2016 this post carries the 
salary scale Rs.52,955 - 645x4 - 1,335x3 - 1,345x7 - 1630x2 - 2170x16 - 104,355/- (sL 
- 2-2016) monthly (sL- 2-2016). in addition, recruits are entitled to allowances paid 
according to public and departmental circulars and the recruits should pass the first 
efficiency bar examination before reaching the fourth salary step of this scale.
3. this post is permanent and pensionable. you will be subjected to any policy decision 
taken by the government in respect of the pension scheme and your appointment is 
subjected to a probation period of three years from the date of appointment. furthermore 
you will be subjected to orders of public service commission, procedural rules of the 
public service commission, provisions of the Establishment code, financial regulations 
and, rules and regulations issued from time to time by the government. in addition, in 
terms of the public administration circular 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 you are required 
to obtain the official language proficiency before expiry of five years from the date of 
appointment. in case of failure to do so, your increments will be stopped.
4. merit List for recruitment to this post will be prepared based on the order granted 
by the letter no. Hsc/aPP/dEN/01/01/2020 dated 11.06.2020 of Health service 
committee of the Public service commission which has been based on the merit list 
issued by the faculty of dental sciences, University of Peradeniya concerning the 
dental surgeons who have obtained their bds from the University of Peradeniya and 
merit list issued from sri Lanka medical council concerning those who hold a foreign 
degree in dentistry.
5. applications of graduates will be considered according to the order in the merit 
list.
6. copies of the following should be attached to applications and originals of them 
should be submitted on 22/09/2020 for verification.
(a) Duly perfected applications certified with the signature and form for declaration 
of option.
hEALTh SERvICE COmmITTEE Of ThE 
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Recruitment to the post of Dental Surgeon in 
Grade II for the ministry of health - 2020
as per the order of the Health service committee of the 
Public Service Commission to fill the 87 identified vacancies 
out of 138 available in the post of dental surgeon (Grade 
ii) of sri Lanka Health service, applications are called by 
the ministry of Health from the applicants who satisfy the 
qualifications given under paragraph 04 herein. Applications 
prepared in accordance with the vacancy list for attachment 
and form for declaration of option appended at the end of 
this notification will be accepted on 22.09.2020 at family 
Health bureau auditorium on the above date from 9.00 
a.m to 12.00 p.m officers of the office of Director (Dental 
Services) will assist in verifying your certificates and 
marking options for service stations. for further information 
you may contact office of Director (Dental Services) on the 
telephone Number 0112-692846.
2.  in terms of the Public administration circular 
No.03/2016 this post carries the salary scale Rs.52,955 
- 645x4 - 1,335x3 - 1,345x7 - 1,630x2 - 2,170x16 - 
Rs.104,355/- (sL - 2-2016) monthly (sL- 2-2016). in 
addition, recruits are entitled to allowances paid according 
to public and departmental circulars and the recruits should 
pass the first efficiency bar examination before reaching the 
fourth salary step of this scale.
3. this post is permanent and pensionable. you will be 
subjected to any policy decision taken by the government 
in respect of the pension scheme and your appointment is 
subjected to a probation period of three years from the date 
of appointment. furthermore you will be subjected to orders 
of Public service commission, procedural rules of the public 
service commission, provisions of the Establishment code, 
financial regulations and, rules and regulations issued from 
time to time by the government. in addition, in terms of the 
public administration circular 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 
you are required to obtain the official language proficiency 
before expiry of five years from the date of appointment. In 
case of failure to do so, your increments will be stopped.
4. merit List for recruitment to this post will be prepared 
based on the order granted by the letter No. Hsc/aPP/
dEN/01/01/2020 dated 11.06.2020 of Health service 
committee of the Public service commission which has 
been based on the merit list issued by the faculty of dental 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1235
hEALTh SERvICE COmmITTEE Of ThE 
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Recruitment to the post of Dental Surgeon in 
Grade II for the ministry of health - 2020
as per the order of the Health service committee of the 
Public Service Commission to fill the 87 identified vacancies 
out of 138 available in the post of dental surgeon (Grade 
ii) of sri Lanka Health service, applications are called by 
the ministry of Health from the applicants who satisfy the 
qualifications given under paragraph 04 herein. Applications 
prepared in accordance with the vacancy list for attachment 
and form for declaration of option appended at the end of 
this notification will be accepted on 22.09.2020 at family 
Health bureau auditorium on the above date from 9.00 
a.m to 12.00 p.m officers of the office of Director (Dental 
Services) will assist in verifying your certificates and 
marking options for service stations. for further information 
you may contact office of Director (Dental Services) on the 
telephone Number 0112-692846.
2.  in terms of the Public administration circular 
No.03/2016 this post carries the salary scale Rs.52,955 
- 645x4 - 1,335x3 - 1,345x7 - 1,630x2 - 2,170x16 - 
sciences, University of Peradeniya concerning the dental 
surgeons who have obtained their bds from the University 
of Peradeniya and merit list issued from sri Lanka medical 
council concerning those who hold a foreign degree in 
dentistry.
5. applications of graduates will be considered according 
to the order in the merit list.
6. copies of the following should be attached to 
applications and originals of them should be submitted on 
22.09.2020 for verification.
(a) Duly perfected applications certified with the 
signature and form for declaration of option.
(b) Three (03) copies of the birth certificate.
(c) Three (03) copies of the registration certificate of 
sri Lanka medical council.
(d) three (03) photocopies of the national identity 
card showing both sides.
7. applicants may obtain the merit list, vacancy list, 
notification on recruitment of dental surgeons and form for 
declaration of option from the website www.health.gov.lk or 
from the office of Director (Dental Services).
8. When marking preferences for service stations in the 
form for declaration of option, all applicants are advised 
hereby to mark a number of choices equal to or more than 
the merit number.
by the order of Health service committee of Public 
service commission,
 secretary,
 ministry of Health.
PRoPosEd List of V acaNciEs foR Post iNtERN aPPoiNtmENts - 2020
RdhS vacancy post
1 Line ministry dGH ampara ds
2 Line ministry dGH ampara ds
3 Line ministry dGH ampara ds Relief
4 Line ministry dGH ampara ds Relief
5 Line ministry dGH Polonnaruwa Ho Resto
6 Line ministry PGH badulla sHo ortho
7 Line ministry tH batticaloa sHo omf
8 Line ministry tH batticaloa sHo ortho
9 Line ministry tH batticaloa Ho Resto
10 Line ministry tH batticaloa Ho Resto
11 Line ministry tH batticaloa sHo Resto
12 RdHs ampara bHb mahaoya ds
13 RdHs ampara dHc Panama ds
14 RdHs ampara dHc Wadinagala ds
15 RdHs ampara RDHS Office Ampara Rds (covering up)
16 RdHs ampara RDHS Office Ampara ds mobile / Relief 
17 RdHs anuradhapura bHb Padaviya ds 
18 RdHs anuradhapura moH - Horowpothana ds 
19 RdHs badulla Relief mahiyangana Zone placed annual transfer bH 
mahiyanganaya
ds Relief 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1236
RdhS vacancy post
20 RdHs badulla dH metigahathenna ds 
21 RdHs badulla dHc bogahakumbura ds 
22 RdHs badulla dHc boralanda ds
23 RdHs badulla dHc dambana ds
24 RdHs badulla dHc Glenore (Haputale) ds
25 RdHs badulla dHc Hopton ds
26 RdHs badulla dH Nadungamuwa ds
27 RdHs badulla moH Uvaparanagama ds
28 RdHs badulla RDHS Office Badulla Rds (covering up)
29 RdHs batticaloa bH kalawanchikudi ds
30 RdHs batticaloa bH kattankudy ds
31 RdHs batticaloa dH mandoor ds
32 RdHs batticaloa dH mavadivermbu ds
33 RdHs batticaloa dH karadiyanaru ds
34 RdHs batticaloa DH Kathiravelly ( Also work as RDHS Office Batticaloa 
Relief/mobile) ds
35 RdHs batticaloa RDHS office Batticaloa ds Relief
36 RdHs Hambanthota bH beragama ds
37 RdHs Hambanthota moH ambalanthota placed annual transfer samadigama 
dental clinic ds
38 RdHs Jaffna dH maruthankerny ds
39 RdHs kandy dH kolongoda ds 
40 RdHs kilinochchi bH mulankavil ds 
41 RdHs kilinochchi dH Veravil ds
42 RdHs kurunegala dH Ehetuwewa ds
43 RdHs kurunegala dH karambe ds
44 RdHs kurunegala adc ambanpola ds
45 RdHs kurunegala dH annual transfer haragalla placed annual transfer 
adc kuliyapitiya central college ds
46 RdHs mannar dH Pesalai ds
47 RdHs mannar dH thallainmannar (mannar) ds
48 RdHs mannar dH Vidalthalthivu ds
49 RdHs mannar dH Nanattan ds
50 RdHs mannar dH Vankalai ds
51 RdHs mannar RDHS Office Mannar Rds (covering up) 
52 RdHs mannar RDHS Office Mannar ds Relief 
53 RdHs matale dH Handungamuwa ds
54 RdHs moneragala dH badalkumbura ds

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1237
RdhS vacancy post
55 RdHs moneragala dH inginiyagala ds
56 RdHs moneragala adc dombagahawela ds
57 RdHs moneragala RDHS Office Moneragala Rds (covering up)
58 RdHs moneragala RDHS Office Moneragala ds mobile/Relief
59 RdHs moneragala RDHS office Moneragala ds Relief
60 RdHs mullaitivu dH mallavi ds
61 RdHs Nuwaraeliya dH bogawanthalawa ds
62 RdHs Nuwaraeliya dH madulla ds
63 RdHs Nuwaraeliya RDHS Office Nuwaraeliya ds mobile/Relief
64 RdHs Polonnaruwa bH medirigiriya ds
65 RdHs Polonnaruwa PmcU Pulasthigama ds
66 RdHs Polonnaruwa moH - Hingurakgoda ds
67 RdHs Polonnaruwa adc medirigiriya ds
68 RdHs Polonnaruwa adc sripura V ds
69 RdHs Polonnaruwa moH Lankapura placed annual transfer PmcU siripura ds
70 RdHs Polonnaruwa BH Medirigiriya placed Annual Transfer RDHS Office 
Polonnaruwa ds mobile Relief
71 RdHs Puttalam BH Puttalam placed as RDHS Office Puttalam Relief 
including PmcU aluthgama Puttalam ds Relief
72 RdHs Puttalam dH anawilundawa also to coverup PmcU mampury ds
73 RdHs Rathnapura dH marathenna ds
74 RdHs Rathnapura dH omalpe ds
75 Line ministry PGH badulla Ho omf
76 RdHs Polonnaruwa moH thamankaduwa/adc Royal college Polonnaruwa ds
77 RdHs badulla bH mahiyanganaya ds
78 RdHs badulla moH Passara ds
79 RdHs badulla moH Haputale ds
80 RdHs moneragala moH sevanagala ds
81 RdHs moneragala moH medagama ds
82 RdHs moneragala moH bibile ds
83 secondment
          sri Lanka army dental services
ds
84 secondment ds
85 secondment ds
86 secondment ds
87 secondment ds

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1238
Application for Post-Intern Appointments of Grade Dental Surgeons - 2020
 1. Last name :
 2. initials :
 3. date of birth  :                                            Gender  :      male                           female  
 4. Postal address :
 5. Nic No. :
 6. contact No. : 1)                                                                         2)
 7. Email :
 8. Nationality :
 9. marital status :
 10. date of graduation :
 11. University of graduation :
 12.  List of stations/posts according to your preference order:
Note : Each applicant must fill all the stations/posts according to the preference. copy from the vacancy list published 
in the web and paste in to this document is preferred.
preference order Station/post
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14. 
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1239
preference order Station/post
24.
25.
26.
27. 
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1240
preference order Station/post
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
 
 ................................;
 signature of the applicant.
date :.......................
09–218

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1241
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of  EDuCATION
Admission of Student Teachers to National 
Colleges of Education to follow a three year 
Pre-Service National Diploma in Teaching Course 
based on G.C.E. (A/ L) results in 2018 – 2020
1.0 aPPLicatioNs are invited from the applicants 
who have acquired  requisite academic qualifications and 
eligibility to follow a three year Pre-service National 
diploma in t eaching course in a National college of 
Education.
1.1. this is relevant only for the students who have 
passed the G.c.E. (a/ L) Examination in the year 
2018. (clauses 4.5 and 4.8 are relevant for the 
courses of buddhism, catholicism/ christianity)
1.2.  all the applicants should forward the application 
online in accordance with instructions mentioned 
in chapter10.0 - ‘instructions for applying’ of the 
Gazette Notification. 
1.3. application should be forwarded on or before                     
25.09.2020.
1.4. it is the responsibility of the applicant to read and 
understand every detail provided in the Gazette 
Notification under the courses s/he applies for, and 
complete the application accordingly. 
1.5. special attention should be paid to the number of 
applicants recruited for each course as mentioned in 
the tables under 14.1, 14.2, 14.3 and 14.4 relevant 
to clause 14.0 in the Gazette Notification before 
completing the application. 
2.0 Eligibility: 
 Every applicant should be – 
2.1 a citizen of sri Lanka.
2.2 of an excellent character and sound physical 
and mental health.
2.3 age:
2.3.1 should be not more than 25 years of age 
as on 01.01.2020;
2.3.2 clergy/those who bear priesthood should 
apply only for the relevant religious 
courses; and those applicants should 
be not more than 30 years of age as on 
01.01.2020.
2.4 should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications:
 
3.1 3.1.1.  it is compulsory that all the applicants 
except those who apply for buddhism 
course should have completed the basic 
educational qualifications in 3.2 and 
3.3.1 mentioned below for applying for 
the admission to National colleges of 
Education.
                 
   3.1.2.  only when applying for the buddhism 
course, together with qualifications in 
3.2 one of the qualifications mentioned 
in 3.3.1 or 3.3.2 should have been 
completed.
 
3.2 should have passed in three (03) main subjects in 
one sitting at the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in the year 2018.
3.3 3.3.1.  the applicants should have passed in six 
(06) subjects including medium Language 
(sinhala Language/t amil Language) 
and mathematics with credit passes for 
three (03) of those subjects at the G.c.E. 
(O/L) Examination. If these qualifications  
are completed in two attempts it is 
compulsory to pass in five (05) subjects 
including medium Language (sinhala 
Language/tamil Language) with three (3) 
credit passes in the first attempt. 
 3.3.2. should have passed in six (06) subjects 
including mathematics and  sinhala 
Language with three (03) credit passes in 
not more than two sittings at Preliminary 
Pirivena  final Examination.
3.4 the applicants who have completed the basic 
qualifications mentioned in 3.2 and 3.3 above  
should have completed the specific qualifications 
of G.c.E. (o/ L) necessary for each course in not 
more than three sittings. 
3.5 The specific qualifications required for each 
course are specified under the relevant course.
preference order Station/post
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
96.
97.
98.
99.
100.
 
 ................................;
 signature of the applicant.
date :.......................
09–218

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1242
NOTE: following subjects are considered under the 
G.c.E. (o/L) syllabus:
1. core (main) subjects:
 (i) Religion 
 (ii)  sinhala Language and Literature / tamil 
Language and Literature 
 (iii)  English Language 
 (iv)  mathematics 
 (v)  History 
 (vi)  science
2. category subjects:
   (i)  any subject out of first category of subjects 
 (ii)  any subject out of second category 
 (iii)  any subject out of third category.
subjects considered under Preliminary Pirivena 
final Examination: 
 (i) sinhala (ii) Pali (iii) sanskrit                                
(iv) English (v) mathematics (vi) thripitaka
 
3.6 the applicants who apply for the courses 
conducted in the medium of English should 
have achieved English language proficiency as 
follows. 
3.6.1 those who apply for English  medium 
courses except for English Language 
course should have obtained minimum 
of a credit pass in English Language / 
ordinary pass in English Literature at the 
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination.
3.6.2 although the Western music course is 
conducted in the English medium, the 
applicants who followed G.c.E. (a/L) in 
other mediums of instructions also may 
apply. 
3.6.3 only the applicants who are capable of 
following the courses in the medium of 
English should apply for this because all 
the teaching activities and Examinations 
are conducted in English medium.
3.7 applicants who are called for interview for 
art/ dance (oriental)/dance (bharatha)/ music 
(oriental) /music (carnatic) /drama and theatre 
will be graded and selected as mentioned below.
 While applicants will be called for the 
interview on the district basis according 
to their Z-score order the selection will 
be made on the priority order of district 
basis in accordance with the descending 
order of the grade obtained for the 
relevant aesthetic subject in G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination, matching with their Z-score 
order. accordingly, the applicants who have 
obtained higher Z - score with the highest 
grade for the relevant aesthetic subject will 
be given priority on district basis. 
3.8 Effective date of all the Educational and other 
Certificates should be on or before the closing 
date of applying (25. 09. 2020).
4.0 Qualifications for each Course: 
it is important that your special attention is paid to the 
following points. 
NOTE:
 • 3.2 and 3.3 of 3.0 above indicate the minimum 
basic educational qualifications that should be 
completed at G.c.E. (a/L) and (o/L) Examinations, 
Preliminary Pirivena final Examination for 
applying for the admission to National colleges 
Education. In addition, the subject proficiencies that 
should specifically be achieved for the courses are 
indicated under each course. 
 • the applicants are called for the interview on the 
order of marks obtained by applicants for sports 
for the Health and Physical Education course; 
in accordance with the clauses mentioned in the 
Gazette Notification for English, Information & 
communication technology and other courses 
with a specified quota; and in accordance with the 
order of Z-score of the applicants relevant to the 
procedures as mentioned in the Gazette notification 
for all the other courses. 
 • in a particular course, in case a quota (a percentage) 
has been alloc ated for different qualifications 
(except for catholicism / christianity), the number 
of applicants allocated for the quota out of the total 
number of admissions in a specific district for that 
course is called for the interview and selected.
 • in case of some courses only the applicants with 
specific qualifications of G.C.E. (O/L) are selected 
through computer data and called for the interview. 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1243
 • although there will be several groups to consider 
qualifications for each course,  in accordance with 
total quota rate  allocated for some districts on the 
relevant percentage calculations opportunities for 
calling for interviews and recruitment might be 
unavailable for applicants in some groups. 
 • for a particular course when recruitment is made 
under several groups the percentage wise reserved 
number for each group out of total quota is allocated 
in a way the priority is set to the order of the group 
number in each course as indicated in the Gazette 
notification.
 
 • In case of the courses “Priority order of selection” 
is mentioned that order is considered after the 
interviews when the qualified applicants are selected 
in accordance with the proper number of vacancies; 
otherwise not at the time of calling for interviews. 
 • the selections are made subjected to the basis 
of recruitment on the order of sports marks in 
each category in the Physical Education course; 
according to the specific methods of selection if it 
is mentioned under certain courses; on the order 
of Z-Score of the qualified applicants in the other 
courses.
	 The educational qualifications and other specific 
qualifications relevant to the recruitment for each 
course conducted in National colleges of Education 
are mentioned below. 
Course No.  01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
                        02 - Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1
4.1.1. the applicants who have followed the art 
stream with sinhala Language or tamil 
Language at G.c.E. (a. Level) Examination: 
4.1.1.1. three (03) passes in one sitting  
including sinhala Language/t amil 
Language at G.c.E.(a/L) Examination 
in arts stream held in year 2018;
  and
4.1.1.2. should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in six (06) subjects 
with minimum of credit passes in 
medium Language (sinhala/t amil) 
and mathematics and an ordinary pass 
in English together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0
or
4.1.2. the applicants who have followed a subject 
stream without the subject of sinhala Language 
or tamil Language at the G.c.E. (a/ L) 
Examination;
4.1.2.1 three (03) passes in one sitting at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination in arts 
stream without sinhala Language/
tamil Language held in year 2018;
  or
 4.1.2.2. three (03) passes in one sitting 
at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination in 
science (Physical science/ biology), 
commerce, ‘other’, t echnology 
subject streams held in year 2018.
  and
 4.1.2.3. should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination in six (06) subjects with 
minimum of a Very Good pass in 
medium Language (sinhala/t amil) 
and a credit pass in mathematics and 
an ordinary pass in English Language 
together with qualifications relevant 
to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE: In recruitment out of the total number of 
admissions to the Primary Course from each district:
 (i) 60% out of the applicants who have appeared for 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination in arts stream with 
sinhala Language/tamil language as a subject,
 (ii) 10% of the applicants who have not followed 
sinhala/tamil as a subject for G.c.E.(a/L) 
Examination in arts stream, 10% out of the 
applicants of  science (Physical science/ 
biology), 10% out of the applicants who have 
followed commerce stream,
 (iii) 05% out of the applicants who have followed 
‘other’ subject streams and 05% out of the 
applicants who have followed technology 
subject stream at G.c.E.(a/L) Examination,
  the proper number of applicants are selected.  

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1244
 (iv) If the required number of qualified applicants 
is not found in the proper subject stream in the 
order of all the proficiency levels of District/ 
Provincial/ National, the applicants are selected 
for the surplus of the vacancies out of the 
applicants who have followed art stream without 
sinhala/ tamil language for the G.c.E. (a/ L) 
and the applicants who have followed commerce 
stream respectively, in the priority order of 
proficiency in the National level.
Course No. 03 - Science (Sinhala)
                     04 - Science (Tamil)
                     05 - Science (English)
4.2
4.2.1 Passing of the three subjects of Physics, 
chemistry and biology in the biology stream 
in one sitting at the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
held in year 2018;
 and
4.2.2 Passing of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination with 
minimum of credit passes in mathematics and 
Science together with qualifications relevant to 
3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE:
Science (English medium) Course:
on district basis 60% of the total number of applicants 
in this course are recruited out of the applicants 
who have followed G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of 
English and the remaining 40% will be selected out 
of the applicants who have followed G.c.E (a/L) 
in the medium of sinhala/t amil. (in the recruitment 
of applicants who have followed G.c.E (a/L) in the 
medium of sinhala/t amil priority will be given to 
the applicants who have studied at least one subject 
for G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of English). if the 
required number of qualified applicants who followed 
G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of English is not found, 
the remaining number of vacancies will be filled with 
the applicants who have followed G.c.E. (a/L) in 
the medium of sinhala/ tamil in accordance with the 
recruitment procedure.
 
Course No. 06 –   mathematics (Sinhala)
                              07  -   mathematics (Tamil)
                              08  -   mathematics (English)
4.3
4.3.1 three (03) passes in one sitting in the subjects of 
combined mathematics, Higher mathematics, 
Physics and chemistry in the Physical science 
stream at the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in 
year 2018;
 and
4.3.2 Passing of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination with 
minimum of credit passes in science and 
Mathematics together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE:
mathematics (English medium) Course:
on district basis 60% of the total number of applicants 
in this course are recruited out of the applicants 
who have followed G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of 
English and the remaining 40% will be selected out 
of the applicants who have studied for G.c.E (a/L) 
in the medium of sinhala/t amil (in the recruitment 
of applicants who have followed G.c.E (a/L) in the 
medium of sinhala/t amil priority will be given to 
the applicants who have studied at least one subject 
for G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of English). if the 
required number of qualified applicants who followed 
G.c.E. (a/L) in the medium of English is not found, 
the remaining number of vacancies will be filled with 
the applicants who have followed G.c.E. (a/L) in 
the medium of sinhala/ tamil in accordance with the 
recruitment procedure.
Course No. 09 - Social Science (Sinhala)
                    10 - Social Science (Tamil)
4.4
4.4.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including at least one subject 
out of History, Geography, Political science, 
Economics in the art stream at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
 or
4.4.2 Passing of G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2018 in three subjects in one sitting 
including Economics in the commerce stream;
 or
4.4.3 Passing of G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held 
in year 2018 in three subjects in one sitting 
including Geography in the ‘other’ subjects 
stream;

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1245
 and
4.4.4 Passing of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination with 
minimum of a credit pass in one of the subjects 
of History/ citizenship Education/ Geography 
together with qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 
3.0.
4.4.5 in this course 60% of the total number of 
applicants who have applied under 4.4.1, 
30% of the applicants who have applied 
under 4.4.2. and 10% of the applicants who 
have applied under 4.4.3 are selected in the 
order of qualifications. If the required number 
of qualified applicants is not found under a 
particular subject stream the remaining number 
of vacancies will be filled in accordance with 
the priority order of qualifications in 4.4.1, 
4.4.2 and 4.4.3 respectively.
Course No. 11 -buddhism
 buddhist monks, buddhist nuns, the dasasil 
mathas registered in the department of 
buddhist affairs under the ministry of buddha 
sasana and laymen may apply for the buddhism 
course. 
4.5
4.5.1 should have passed G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
held in year   2018  in  three (3) subjects in 
one sitting including two (02) out of buddhism, 
buddhist civilization, Pali, sanskrit and 
sinhala;
 and
4.5.2 Passing of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination with 
an ordinary pass in buddhism together 
with qualifications relevant to 3.3.1of 3.0/ 
completing of qualifications indicated under 
3.3.2 of 3.0 at Preliminary Pirivena final 
Examination;
 together with
4.5.3 Passing of  bauddha dharmacharya 
Examination;
 or
4.5.4 Passing of Pracheena Preliminary Examination;
 or
4.5.5 Passing of damma school final Examination.
4.5.6 sariputta National college of Education 
(Nittambuwa) is reserved for the clergy. if there 
are qualified Buddhist nuns / Dasasilmathas, 
they will be recruited under clergy and directed 
to sariputta National college of Education 
(dambadeniya). if the required number of 
clergy applicants is not found for the existing 
vacancies the remaining number will be 
recruited out of laymen for sariputta National 
college of Education (dambadeniya). 
4.5.7 in case of inadequate number of applicants 
of the clergy who have passed G.c.E. (a/L) 
in 2018, clergy who have passed the G.c.E. 
(a/L) Examination in the  years  2017, 2016, 
2015 and 2014 will   be selected respectively 
considering the immediately preceding year.
4.5.8 Priority order of Selection:
(a) Applicants having Certificates under 
4.5.1, 4.5.2 and 4.5.3;
(b) Applicants having Certificates under 
4.5.1, 4.5.2 and 4.5.4;
(c) Applicants having Certificates under 
4.5.1, 4.5.2 and 4.5.5;
(d) Applicants having Certificates under 4.5.1 
and 4.5.2.
Course No. 12 -hinduism
            
4. 6
4.6.1 should have passed the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018 in three subjects 
in one sitting including one out of the subjects 
of Hinduism, Hindu civilization, and sanskrit;
 and
4.6.2 Passing of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination with 
an ordinary pass in Hinduism together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
 together with
4.6.3 having shaiva siddhantha Pandithar 
Certificate;
 or/and
4.6.4 having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate;
 or/and
4.6.5 having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate.
4. 6. 6. Priority Order of Selection:
(a) applicants having 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and all other 
Certificates ;

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1246
(b) applicants having 4.6.1, 4.6.2, 4.6.5 and one 
of the other two Certificates
(c) applicants having 4.6.1, 4.6.2 and one of the 
other three Certificates
(d) Applicants having Certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.2
Course No. 13 -Islam
4.7
4.7.1 should have passed the G.c.E (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018 in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting including one out of 
the subjects of islam, islamic civilization and 
arabic; 
 and
4.7.2 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
with an ordinary pass in islam together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1of 3.0;
 together with
4.7.3 Passing of all subjects in al – alim Examination 
(all subjects in Preliminary Examination and 
all subjects in final Examination);
 or
4.7.4 Passing of all subjects in al – alim Preliminary 
Examination;
 and
4.7.5 Having Moulavi Certificate.
4.7.6 Priority order of Selection:
(a) Applicants having Certificates 4.7.1, 
4.7.2, 4.7.3 and 4.7.5 ;
(b) Applicants having Certificates   4.7.1, 
4.7.2, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5 ;
(c) Applicants having Certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2 
and 4.7.5 ;
(d) Applicants having Certificates 4.7.1 and 
4.7.2.
Course No. 14 – Catholicism/Christianity 
(Sinhala)
                    15 – Catholicism/Christianity 
(Tamil)  
4.8
4.8.1 
4.8.1.1. should have passed G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018 in any 
three (3) subjects in one sitting;
 and
4.8.1.2. should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination with an ordinary pass in 
catholicism/christianity together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1of 3.0.
 and
4.8.1.3. the applicant should have obtained 
the Certificate of Catholic Bishop 
confirming that the applicant is Catholic/
the Certificate of National Christian 
Council confirming that the applicant is 
a christian.
 together with
4.8.2 Selection of applicants for Catholicism 
course will be made in the priority order of 
qualifications given below:
4.8.2.1 Having Certificate of the four year course 
on theology conducted  by National 
seminary;
4.8.2.2 Having Certificate of the Philosophy 
course conducted by National seminary;
4.8.2.3 Having Certificate of the three year 
religious Education course conducted by 
deva  dharma Nikethanaya (theology 
centre);
4.8.2.4  Having Certificate issued by Superior/ 
mother superior or relevant bishop 
of the clergy  sect  that the applicant 
has successfully completed the course 
of  studies on  the Religious Education 
and training (Novitiate) to become a 
member of the clergy (male/ female);
4.8.2.5 Passing of one of the catholic dharma 
Guru (t eacher of catholicism) 
Examinations conducted by the National 
catechetical centre;
i.e. Dahamguru 3 (final)
or
dahamguru 2 (medium)
or
 dahamguru 1 (preliminary)
4.8.2.6 Passing of christianity/ christian 
civilization at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1247
4.8.3 Selection of applicants for Christianity 
course will be made in the priority order of 
qualifications given below:
4.8.3.1 Should have obtained the Certificate 
of dharmavedi diploma course 
conducted by Lanka theological 
college, Pilimatalawa;
4.8.3.2 should have obtained National 
Certificate on Religious Knowledge 
(dharmacharya) issued by National   
christian council;
4.8.3.3 Passing of christianity/christian 
civilization at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination. 
NOTE –
 (i) 40% of the total number of applicants will be 
selected from catholic and christian clergy based 
on the order of qualifications.  If the required 
percentage (40%) of vacancies cannot be filled with 
clergy, selection will be made from laity applicants. 
 (ii) 85% of total laity admissions of catholic laity 
applicants qualified under 4.8.1 are selected based 
on the order of qualifications given in 4.8.2. If the 
85% of qualified Catholic laity applicants are not 
available, christian laity applicants are selected for 
such vacancies.
 (iii) 15% of total laity admissions of christian laity 
applicants qualified under 4.8.1 are selected based 
on the order of qualifications given in 4.8.3. If the 
15% of qualified Christian laity applicants are not 
available, catholic laity applicants are selected for 
such vacancies.
 (iv) in common the catholic and christian laity 
applicants are called for interviews in the order of 
their Z-score on district basis, and the districts which 
the 15% christian laity applicants are recruited are 
decided on the basis of the districts represented by 
the applicants who participate in the interview with 
the highest Z-score and the number of vacancies 
that prevail in these districts.
 (v) in case of inadequate number of applicants of the 
clergy who have passed G.c.E. (a/L) in 2018, 
clergy/ those who bear a priesthood who have passed 
the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination in the  years  2017, 
2016, 2015 and 2014 will   be selected respectively
               considering the immediately preceding year.
Course No. 16 - first Language (Sinhala)
4.9
 4.9.1  should have passed in three (03) subjects in one 
sitting with minimum of a credit pass in sinhala 
Language at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in 
year 2018;
  and
 4.9.2  should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
in six (06) subjects with minimum of a credit 
pass in sinhala Language and literature together 
with qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
Course No. 17 - first Language (Tamil)
4.10
 4.10.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects in 
one sitting with minimum of a credit pass in 
tamil Language at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
held in year 2018;
  and
 4.10.2 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination with minimum of a credit pass 
in tamil Language and literature together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of  3.0.
Course No.  18 -   English
4.11
4.11.1
4.11.1.1. should have passed G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018 in 
three (03) subjects in one sitting 
including English Language (subject 
No.73);
 and
4.11.1.2. should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination with minimum of a 
credit pass in English Language/an 
ordinary pass in English Literature 
together with qualifications relevant 
to 3.3.1 of  3.0;
  or

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1248
4.11.2
4.11.2.1. should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held  in year 2018;
 and
4.11.2.2. should have passed the G.c.E.(o/L) 
Examination with minimum of a 
credit pass in English Literature and 
an ordinary pass in English together 
with qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 
of 3.0;
 or
4.11.3
4.11.3.1. should have passed in any three 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
 and 
4.11.3.2 should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination with minimum of a 
Very Good pass in English Language 
together with qualifications relevant 
to 3.3.1of 3.0.
NOTE:
While giving priority to the applicants applied under 
4.11.1 from each district they are called for interview 
based on the order of their Z-score, in case of inadequacy 
to complete the number to be recruited the qualified 
applicants applied under 4.11.2 will be called for the 
interview on the order of their Z-score. in case of 
inadequacy to complete the number to be recruited, the 
qualified applicants applied under 4.11.3 will be called 
for the interview according to priority order of their 
Z-score. 
     4.11.4. Priority Order of Selection:
 (i)  The applicants qualified under 4.11.1 in the 
relevant district will be selected according 
to the order of their Z-score.
  (ii) if vacancies further remains, applicants 
qualified under 4.11.2 will be selected after 
grading them in descending order based on 
the grade obtained for the subject of English 
Literature at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination and 
matching up with Z- score. 
 (iii)  if vacancies further exist, applicants 
qualified under 4.11.3 will be selected 
after grading them in descending order 
based on the grade the applicants obtained 
for the subject of English at G.c.E.(o/L) 
Examination and matching up with the                   
Z- score. 
Course No. 19 – Art (Sinhala)
                             20 – Art (Tamil)
4.12 
4.12.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including art at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
 and
4.12.2 Passing of G.c.E. (o/L) Examination with 
minimum of a credit pass in art together 
with qualifications in 3.3.1 of 3.0;
4.12.3 the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.12.1 and 4.12.2 will 
be selected in accordance with the procedure 
stated in clause 3.7.
 Course No.  21 –    Dance (Oriental)
4.13
4.13.1. should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including dance (oriental) 
at G.c.E.  (a/L) Examination held in year 
2018;
            and
4.13.2. should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination with minimum of a credit 
pass in dancing (oriental) together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
4.13.3. the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.13.1 and 4.13.2 will 
be selected in accordance with the procedure 
stated in clause 3.7.
Course No.  22 – Dance (bharatha) 
4.14
4.14.1 s hould have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including  dance (bharatha)  at  
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year  2018;
 and

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1249
4.14.2 should have passed dance (bharatha) with 
minimum of a credit pass at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination together with the qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
4.14.3 the applicants    who    have    acquired 
qualifications under 4.14.1 and 4.14.2 will 
be selected in accordance with the procedure 
stated in clause 3.7.
Course No. 23 - music (Oriental)
4.15
4.15.1  should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including music (oriental)  
at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2018;
 and
4.15.2  should have passed music (oriental) with 
minimum of a credit pass at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
4.15.3 the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.15.1 and 4.15.2 
will be selected in accordance with the 
procedure stated in clause 3.7.
Course No. 24 - music (Carnatic)
     4.16
 4.16.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including music (carnatic) 
at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2018;
  and
 4.16.2 should have passed music (carnatic) with 
minimum of a credit pass at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
 4.16.3 the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.16.1 and 4.16.2 will 
be selected in accordance with the procedure 
stated in clause 3.7.
Course No.  25 –    Western music (English)
4.17
4.17.1
 4.17.1.1 should have passed in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting including 
Western music at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.17.1.2 should have passed English 
Language with minimum of a credit 
pass / English   Literature with an 
ordinary   pass   and   Western music 
with minimum of a credit pass at 
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination together 
with qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 
3.0;
  or
4.17.2
 4.17.2.1 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.17.2.2 should have passed English 
Language with minimum of a credit 
pass / English   Literature with 
an ordinary   pass   and   Western 
music with ordinary pass at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
  and
 4.17.2.3 should have passed class four in 
Western music (theory and Practical) 
from a recognized institute approved 
by the colleges of Education 
board/ secretary to the ministry of 
Education;
  or
4.17.3
 4.17.3.1 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.17.3.2 should have passed English 
Language with minimum of a credit 
pass / English   Literature with an 
ordinary pass   and   Western music 
with minimum of an ordinary pass at 
G.c.E. (o/L) Examination together 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1250
with qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 
3.0;
                 and
 4.17.3.3  should have passed in Western music 
as an additional subject at G.c.E. 
(a/L) Examination;
                 or
4.17.4 
 4.17.4.1.  should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.17.4.2.  should have passed Western 
music with a distinction pass and 
English Language with minimum 
of a credit pass / English Literature 
with an ordinary pass at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE:
 (i) applicants should reach a satisfactory level of 
performance at the practical test conducted for 
Western music course.
 (ii) in selection, priority will be given to applicants 
qualifying under 4.17.1, 4.17.2, 4.17.3, 4.17.4 
respectively.
 Course No. 26 – Drama and Theatre 
(Sinhala)
27 – Drama and Theatre 
(Tamil)
4.18
 4.18.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects in 
one sitting including drama and theatre at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.18.2. should have passed drama and theatre with 
minimum of a credit pass at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
 4.18.3 the applicants who have acquired 
qualifications under 4.18.1 and 4.18.2 will 
be selected in accordance with the procedure 
stated in clause 3.7.
Course No. 28  - Physical Education 
(Sinhala)
                    29 - Physical Education 
(Tamil) 
4.19
4.19.1 should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and 
4.19.2 should have passed science with 
an ordinary pass at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
  and
4.19.3  achievements/ performances in the 
recognized track and field athletics and 
organized sports. (a  maximum of 75 
marks will be awarded for certificates of 
three different sports/ events according 
to the priority order given in the table 
4.19.3.1).
 4.19.3.1.  Priority order to award marks 
for the sports/ events is 
mentioned below; the list of 
recognized sports that should 
be used in this regard is given 
in the table 4.19.5 – X.
PRioRity oRdER of sPoRts / EVENts
Serial 
no.                          Level /Subject Single Team place/
Grade mark
1 international  Level single ---- 1 25
2 international  Level single ---- 2 24
3 international  Level single ---- 3 23
4 international  Level ---- team 1 24
5 international  Level ---- team 2 23

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1251
Serial 
no.                          Level /Subject Single Team place/
Grade mark
6 international  Level ---- team 3 22
7 international level Representation single team ---- 21
8 National Level single ---- 1 20
9 National Level single ---- 2 19
10 National Level single ---- 3 18
11 National Level ---- team 1 19
12 National Level ---- team 2 18
13 National Level ---- team 3 17
14 Provincial Level/National associations/school associations single ---- 1 16
15 Provincial Level/National associations/school associations single ---- 2 15
16 Provincial Level/National associations/school associations single ---- 3 14
17 Provincial Level/National associations/school associations ---- team 1 15
18 Provincial Level/National associations/school associations ---- team 2 14
19 Provincial Level/National associations/school associations ---- team 3 13
20 Regiment Sergeant Major /Warrant Officer 1(Army/ Police)/ 
Fleet Chief Petty Officer (Navy)/ Master Warrant Officer (Air 
force)/ Herman Loss cup trophy/ de Zoysa cup trophy/ 
cadet Eastern/Western band (Girls/boys) trophy.
---- ---- ---- 10
21 Presidents’ scout/ Girl Guide ---- ---- ---- 10
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant Officer II (Army/ Police)/ Admin. 
Petty Officer (Navy)/ Warrant Officer (Air Force)/ Herman 
Loss cup Runner-up trophy/ de Zoysa cup Runner-up 
trophy/ cadet Eastern/ Western band (Girls/boys) Runner-up 
trophy.
---- ---- ---- 09
23
Educational Zonal / district Level single ---- 1 10
24 Educational Zonal / district Level single ---- 2 09
25 Educational Zonal / district Level single ---- 3 08
26 Educational Zonal / district Level ---- team 1 09
27 Educational Zonal / district Level ---- team 2 08
28 Educational Zonal / district Level/ staff sergeant (army/ 
Police)/ Chief Petty Officer (Navy)/ Flight Sergeant (Air 
force)/ Herman Loss cup third Place/ the Zoysa cup 
third Place
---- team 3 07
29 Educational divisional/ divisional secretariat Level single ---- 1 06
30 Educational divisional/ divisional secretariat Level single ---- 2 05
31 Educational divisional/ divisional secretariat Level single ---- 3 04
32 Educational divisional/ divisional secretariat Level ---- team 1 05
33 Educational divisional/ divisional secretariat Level/ 
battalion trophy (boys battalions – 29/ Girls – 09)
---- team 2 04
34 Educational divisional/ divisional secretariat Level ---- team 3 03
              

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1252
4.19.4  if the applicant has appeared for the 
subject of Health and Physical Education 
at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination, additional 
points will be granted in accordance with 
the grades obtained as given below. it 
will be added to marks obtained for the 
sports certificates and the total mark will 
be adjusted accordingly. 
 a Pass – 05 
 b Pass – 03  
 c Pass – 02  
 s Pass – 01
4.19.5 Special attention should be paid to the 
following points:
 (i) selection for the Physical 
Education course will be made 
according to the respective order 
of marks for sports performances 
of the applicants in each district 
as given below. (according to the 
table 4.19.3.1 and 4.19.4)
 (ii) in the recruitment on district 
basis, 30% of the applicants 
will be selected for the athletics 
under category 1; 30% from the 
games of volleyball, Netball and 
football under category 2; and 
40% from other recognized sports 
as mentioned in table 4.19.5 – X 
under category 3.
 (iii) the category number the applicant 
belongs to is decided on the 
basis of category s/he is placed 
according to the highest level of 
marks separately earned from each 
category, after awarding marks 
according to the criteria of marks 
for the certificates produced by the 
applicant. if any applicant scores 
equal marks under 2 or 3 categories, 
s/he will be considered under the 
category which the certificate of 
the applicant’s best achievement 
belongs to. If the highest certificate 
produced under every category 
deserves the same mark, the 
applicants are categorized so that 
the priority is given as category 01, 
02, 03 respectively. 
 (iv) Recognized sports competitions 
(international) – Participation 
in international competitions 
representing sri Lanka National 
teams or school National sports 
teams (except chess, carom and 
draught) through ministry of 
Education/ ministry of sports 
and their registered sports clubs 
are valid for this. (Participation 
in international competitions on 
personal basis by school sports 
teams will not be considered). 
Certificates at international 
competitions are considered only 
if the minimum of a provincial 
level local victory has been 
achieved. Otherwise, no marks 
will be granted. 
 (v) Recognized sports competitions 
(Local) – National level 
competitions organized by the 
ministry of Education/ ministry 
of sports/ National youth services 
council,
  Provincial level competitions 
organized by the Provincial 
Education department/ Provincial 
ministry of sports/ National youth   
services council,
  district/ divisional secretariat 
Level competitions organized 
by the Provincial ministry of 
sports/ National youth services 
council; Zonal/ divisional level 
competitions organized by the 
Provincial Education department,
  are valid for this. 
 (vi) only the 1st, 2nd and 3rd places in 
‘a’ Grade competitions organized 
by recognized sports   clubs    
registered under the ministry of 
sports and ministry of Education 
will be given priority under these 
tournaments respectively.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1253
 (vii) Certificates obtained for Sports 
performance/achievements during 
the period from 01.01.2014 to 
31.12.2018 are valid for this. 
(Note: while the certificates issued 
before or after this period are not 
considered for awarding marks, all 
the certificates submitted will be 
subjected to confirmation by the 
relevant institutions). 
 (viii) While marks are awarded only 
for three certificates, which the 
applicant has shown the maximum 
skill, it is compulsory to produce 
all the relevant certificates to the 
interview board on the interview 
day itself.
 (ix) When the marks are awarded, only 
the highest certificate obtained for 
the same event in the same year 
will be considered.
 (x) When awarding marks to the 
certificates, the sports which are 
considered and  recognized by the 
ministry of sports and ministry 
of Education, belonging to school 
clubs are mentioned below. 
badminton teak-Won-do Wrestling Netball
aquatic sports (swimming) throw ball basket ball Wushu 
Judo Rugby soft ball cricket tennis
cycling Weight Lifting Hand ball boxing 
Elle football (soccer) athletics kabaddi 
Hockey Gymnastics cricket baseball 
karate do table tennis V olleyball Physical Exercises
Course No. 30 – home Economics (Sinhala)
                     31 – home Economics (Tamil)
4.20
 4.20.1 should have passed in three subjects in 
one sitting including Home Economics 
at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2018;
  and
 4.20.2 should have passed science with an 
ordinary pass at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
together with qualifications relevant to 
3.3.1 of 3.0.
 Course No.  32 – Agriculture and food 
Technology (Sinhala)
                       33 – Agriculture and food 
Technology (Tamil)
4.21
 4.21.1 should have passed in the three (03) 
subjects of agricultural science, biology 
and chemistry under biology stream in 
one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
held in year 2018;
  or
 4.21.2 should have passed the three (03) subjects 
of bio – system technology, science for 
technology and agricultural science 
under technology stream in one sitting 
at G.c.E(a/L) Examination held in year 
2018;
  or
 4.21.3  should have passed in three subjects in 
one sitting with one of the subjects of 
agricultural science/ agro-technology/ 
bio-Resource technology/ food 
technology under arts stream at G.c.E. 
(a/L) Examination held in 2018;
                   and
 4.21.4 should have passed science with 
minimum of a credit pass at G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE:
 • Out of the number recruited for the course from each 
district applicants are selected on the ratio of 50% out 
of the applicants applied under 4.21.1, 25% out of the 
applicants applied under 4.21.2, and the remaining 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1254
25% out of the applicants applied under 4.21.3. 
 • In case of inadequacy of the number of applicants 
under a certain subject category, remaining number 
of vacancies will be filled in the priority order of 
qualifications as stated in 4.21.1, 4.21.2, 4.21.3 
respectively. 
Course No. 34 – Technical Studies – Crafts 
and Art (Sinhala)
35 – Technical Studies – Crafts 
and Art (Tamil)
4.22
 4.22.1. should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.22.2 should have passed crafts and  art 
with an ordinary pass at G.c.E. (o/L)  
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
Course No.  36 – Design and Construction 
Technology (Sinhala)
37 – Design and mechanical 
Technology (Sinhala)
38 – Design and Electrical 
and Electronic Technology 
(Sinhala)
39 – Design and Construction 
Technology (Tamil)
40 – Design and mechanical 
Technology (Tamil)
41 – Design and Electrical and 
Electronic Technology 
(Tamil)
4.23
 4.23.1 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including Engineering 
technology,  science for technology and 
one of the subjects approved as the third 
subject for technology subject stream at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2018;
  or
 4.23.2 should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting including one of the subjects 
out of civil technology, mechanical 
technology, Electrical, Electronic and 
information technology under Hard 
technology at G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
held in year 2018;
  and
 4.23.3 should have passed G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE – Very Specific 
 (i) the applicants who apply for this course 
should apply for one or a few of the courses 
out of the course Numbers 36, 37, 38 in sinhala 
medium and one or a few of the courses out 
of the course Numbers 39, 40, 41 in tamil 
medium paying special attention to the 
applicant’s qualifications to follow the course 
and in accordance with his/her wish. 
 (ii) When applying for these courses, the course 
numbers should be entered accurately 
according to the relevant medium. 
 (iii) the number of applicants that should be 
recruited for each course on district basis is 
called for interviews and selected out of the 
applicants applied for the course with the 
qualifications in 4.23.1 or 4.23.2 according to 
the priority order given below and the order of 
their Z score. 
 4.23.4 Priority Order of Selection: 
(a) Applicants qualified under 4.23.1, 
4.23.3
(b) Applicants qualified under 4.23.2, 
4.23.3
Course No. 42 – Information and 
Communication Technology 
(Sinhala)
43 – Information and 
Communication 
Technology (Tamil)
44 – Information and 
Communication 
Technology (English)
4.24 
4.24.1.
 4.24.1.1. should have passed in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting  including 
information    and communication 

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1255
technology with minimum of a 
credit pass at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.24.1.2.  should have passed English 
Language with minimum of a 
credit pass/ English Literature 
with an ordinary pass at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
  or
4.24.2 
 4.24.2.1. should have passed in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting  including 
an ordinary pass for information 
and communication technology at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in 
year 2018;
  and
 4.24.2.2.  should have passed information 
and communication technology 
with minimum of a credit pass and 
English Language with minimum 
of a credit pass/ English Literature 
with an ordinary pass at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 
3.0;
   or
4.24.3.
 4.24.3.1.  should have passed in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting  in Physical 
science stream at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018 ;
  and
 4.24.3.2.  should have passed information and 
communication technology with 
minimum of a Very Good pass and 
English Language with minimum 
of a credit pass/ English Literature 
with an ordinary pass at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 
3.0;
 4.24.3.3.  the applicants who have passed 
General information t echnology 
(Git) Examination in Grade 12 
with the above qualification will be 
given priority in selection under this 
category subjected to the order of 
their Z-score;
   or
4.24.4 
 4.24.4.1.  should have passed in three (03) subjects 
in one sitting  in biology stream at the 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2018;  
  and
 4.24.4.2. should have passed information and 
communication technology with 
minimum of a Very Good pass and 
English Language with minimum 
of a credit pass/ English Literature 
with an ordinary pass at G.c.E.(o/L) 
Examination together with qualifications 
relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
 4.24.4.3. the applicants who have passed 
General information technology (Git) 
Examination in Grade 12 with the above 
qualifications will be given priority in 
selection under this category subjected 
to the order of their Z-score;
  or
4.24.5.
 4.24.5.1.  should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting under the subject 
streams of art, commerce, technology 
and ‘other’ at the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.24.5.2. should have passed information and 
communication technology with a 
distinction pass and English Language 
with minimum of a credit pass/ English 
Literature with an ordinary pass at 
G.c.E.(o/L) Examination together with 
qualifications relevant to 3.3.1 of 3.0;
 4.24.5.3. the applicants who have passed 
General information technology (Git) 
Examination in Grade 12 with the above 
qualifications will be given priority in 
selection under this category subjected 
to the order of their Z-score;

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1256
4.24.6.  the interview and the course for Estate Workers’ 
children who apply for this course relevant to 
sripada National college of Education will be 
conducted at Ruwanpura National college of 
Education.
 
NOTE:  the number of applicants to be recruited from 
each district will be called for interview as 
shown below according to the order of their 
Z-score. accordingly,
 (i) The qualified applicants applied under 
4.24.1
 (ii) if the number of applicant applied 
under clause 4.24.1 is not adequate to 
complete the vacancies on district basis, 
the qualified applicants applied under 
4.24.2
 (iii) if the number of applicants called 
for interview is further inadequate to 
complete the number of vacancies, 
the qualified applicants applied under 
4.24.3, 4.24.4, 4.24.5 are called for 
interview respectively following the 
same priority order.
4.24.7. Priority Order of Selection:
 (i) the applicants who have completed the 
qualifications under 4.24.1 in the order of 
Z-score.
 (ii)  the applicants who have completed 
qualifications under 4.24.2 in the order of 
Z-score.
 (iii) the applicants of each subject stream who 
have qualifications under 4.24.3, 4.24.4, 
4.24.5 with a pass in  General information 
technology Examination (Git) are selected 
respectively subjected to the priority order 
in the above  categories and  the priority 
order of Z-score.
Course No. 45 - Second National Language 
(Sinhala)
4.25.
 4.25.1 should have passed in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting  with minimum 
of a credit pass in sinhala Language at 
G.c.E. (a/L) Examination held in year 
2018. 
   and  
 4.25.2 should have passed in sinhala Language 
and literature with minimum of a credit 
pass at G.c.E. (o/L) Examination 
together with the qualifications relevant 
to 3.3.1 of 3.0.
 NOTE: 
 • In recruitment of applicants for this course 
after the interview, priority will be given to 
the applicants who have passed in Tamil as a 
Second National Language at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination/ Second National Language 
(Advanced) Certificate in Tamil issued by 
the Department of Official Languages/Tamil 
Language as optional subject at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination on the order of the z-score, 
respectively.
 • Only those who agree to serve in a Tamil medium 
School in any District in the Island may apply 
for this course.
Course No. 46 - Second National Language 
(Tamil)
4.26.
 4.26.1.  should have passed in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting including a credit 
pass in tamil Language at G.c.E.(a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.26.2. should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination at least with a credit 
pass in tamil Language and literature 
together with qualifications mentioned 
in 3.3.1 of 3.0.
NOTE 
 • In recruitment of applicants for this course 
after the interview, priority will be given to 
the applicants who have passed in Sinhala as 
a Second National Language at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination/ Second National Language 
(Advanced) Certificate in Sinhala issued by 
the Department of Official Languages/Sinhala 
Language as optional subject at G.C.E. (O/L) 
Examination on the order of the z-score, 
respectively.
 
 • Only those who agree to serve in a Sinhala 
medium School in any District in the Island may 
apply for this course. 

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1257
Course No. 47 – Special  Education (Sinhala)
                    48  - Special Education (Tamil)
4.27
 4.27.1.  should have passed in any three (03) 
subjects in one sitting at G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination held in year 2018;
  and
 4.27.2. Should have completed the qualifications 
mentioned in 3.3.1 of 3.0 at G.c.E. 
(o/L) Examination.
 NOTE –the applicants of this course will be appointed 
as teachers of special Educational Needs 
such as visually- impaired, hearing- 
impaired, intellectual deficiencies, 
autism, learning- difficulties and 
multiple-impaired. Hence, only the 
applicants, who are willing to sign an 
agreement to serve in these special 
units where the impaired children learn, 
should apply for this course. (according 
to the circular No. 42/2012 and the letter 
Numbered Ed/9/18/8/2/6 and dated 
17.05.2017 issued by the secretary to 
the ministry of Education).
Course No.   49 - business and Accounting 
Studies (Sinhala)
 50 - business and Accounting 
Studies (Tamil)
4.28
 4.28.1 should have passed in three (03) 
subjects in one sitting including two 
(02) subjects from accounting, business 
studies, Economics of the commerce 
stream in G. c. E. a/L examination held 
in the year 2018 with one of the subjects 
mentioned below as the third subject, 
 • Business Statistics, Geography, Political 
Science, History, Logic & Scientific 
method, English, German, french, 
agricultural science, combined 
maths or mathematics, information & 
communication technology, Physics. 
                        and
 4.28.2 should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
Examination at least with a credit pass 
in business & accounting studies/ 
Entrepreneurship studies together with 
qualifications mentioned in 3.3.1 of 3.0.
5. 0  Number of the course, Name of the course and the 
medium in a par with the National colleges of Education 
where each course will be conducted are indicated in the 
table below.
• Relevant details should be used correctly when 
applied through online system. However, colleges 
of Education board/secretary to the ministry of 
Education holds the right of making final decision 
regarding the placement of courses in an appropriate 
manner in National colleges of Education.
• It is mandatory that applicants include the course 
number of each course correctly under Sinhala, 
English, Tamil mediums as they are mentioned in 
the column –i of the  table below when applied 
online.   
Columns of the table are  labeled as follows 
column i –  course Number
column ii –  course Name
column iii –  NcoEs where sinhala medium courses 
are conducted.
column iv –  NcoEs where tamil  medium courses 
are conducted.
column v  –  NcoEs where English medium courses  
are conducted.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1258
Course 
Number
Course Name Names of NCoEs by the medium of Courses
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
01
02
Primary Education (sinhala)
Primary Education (tamil)
Uva Vavuniya -
Nilwala sripada -
mahaweli addalaichenai -
sariputta
(dambadeniya)
batticaloa -
 sripada Jaffna -
 Pasdunrata dhargatown -
 Pulathisipura - -
 Wayamba - -
 Ruwanpura - -
 Ruhuna - -
 Hapitigam - -
 maharagama - -
Vavuniya - -
03
04
05
science (sinhala)
science (tamil)
science (English)
 Nilwala Vavuniya  Nilwala
 siyane sripada  siyane
 sri Pada addalaichenai  Jaffna
- batticaloa -
- Jaffna -
06
07
08
mathematics (sinhala)
mathematics (tamil)
mathematics (English)
 Nilwala Vavuniya  Nilwala
 siyane sripada  siyane
 sripada addalaichenai  Jaffna
- Jaffna -
09
10
social science (sinhala)
social science (tamil)
Ruhuna sripada -
sripada batticaloa -
11 buddhism sariputta – 
Nittambuwa and  
dambadeniya
- -
12 Hinduism - Vavuniya -
13 islam - addalaichenai -
14
15
catholicism / christianity (sinhala)
catholicism / christianity (tamil)
 Wayamba Vavuniya -
16 first Language (sinhala)  Wayamba - -
 Peradeniya - -
17 first Language (tamil) - sripada -
- dharga town -
- Peradeniya -
18 English - -  mahaweli
- -  Pasdunrata
- -  Jaffna
- -  Peradeniya

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1259
Course 
Number
Course Name Names of NCoEs by the medium of Courses
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
19
20
art (sinhala)
art (tamil)
 mahaweli  sripada -
 Wayamba  batticaloa -
 Jaffna -
21 dance (oriental)  mahaweli - -
 Wayamba - -
22 dance ( bharatha) -  sripada -
-  Jaffna -
23 music (oriental)  mahaweli - -
 Wayamba - -
24 music ( carnatic) - sripada -
- Jaffna -
25 Western music - - maharagama
26
27
drama and theatre (sinhala)
drama and theatre (tamil)
 mahaweli batticaloa -
 Wayamba -
28
29
Physical Education (sinhala)
Physical Education (tamil)
 Uva Vavuniya -
 Nilwala batticaloa -
 Ruhuna - -
30
31
Home Economics (sinhala)
Home Economics (tamil)
 Ruhuna Vavuniya -
dharga town -
32
33
agriculture and food technology (sinhala)
agriculture and food technology (tamil)
 Pulathisipura Vavuniya -
34
35
technical studies – crafts and art (sinhala)
technical studies – crafts and art (tamil)
 siyane  batticaloa -
36
37
38
39
40
41
design and construction technology 
(sinhala)
design and mechanical technology (sinhala)
design and Electrical and Electronic 
technology(sinhala)
design and construction technology (tamil)
design and mechanical technology (tamil)
design and Electrical and Electronic 
technology(tamil)
 siyane batticaloa -
42
43
           
 44
information and communication technology 
(sinhala)
information and communication technology 
(tamil)
information and communication technology 
(English)
Ruwanpura - Pasdunrata 
- Jaffna Ruwanpura
- - maharagama
45 second Language (sinhala) mahaweli - -
Wayamba - -
maharagama - -

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1260
Course 
Number
Course Name Names of NCoEs by the medium of Courses
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
i ii iii iv v
46 second Language (tamil) -  mahaweli -
-  Vavuniya -
47
48
special Education (sinhala)
special Education (tamil)
 Hapitigam addalaichenai -
 maharagama  Jaffna -
49
50
business and accounting studies (sinhala)
business and accounting studies (tamil)
maharagama addalaichenai
-
NOTE - 
 darga town National college of Education is reserved 
for tamil medium female students.
6.0. Procedure for Selection of Student Teachers for 
year 2020:
6.1 basis of Selection:
6.1.1. the number of student teachers to be 
admitted to the colleges has been 
decided by considering the teacher carder 
requirements based on the number of 
vacancies created through the retirement 
of teachers in the year 2023, the existing 
number of  vacancies at present in the 
school system and the necessity of making 
subject variations in the under-privileged 
areas and calculating the teacher 
requirement for each subject and matching 
that number to the available facilities for 
each subject in 2020 at National colleges 
of Education simultaneously.
• A higher percentage of student 
recruitment for the courses of Primary 
Education, science, mathematics 
and English will be allocated for 
the under-privileged districts of 
Nuwara-eliya, Hambanthota, Jaffna, 
kilinochchi, mannar, Vavuniya, 
mulaithivu, batticaloa, ampara, 
trincomalee, Puttlam, anuradhapura, 
Polonnuruwa, badulla, monaragala 
and Ratnapura.
• The major determinant for the 
number recruited for each subject 
is the number that can be facilitated 
by the National Colleges of 
Education for each subject. 
6.1.1.1. accordingly, the recruitment in 2020 
will be made as mentioned below for 
the candidates who passed G.c.E 
(a/L) in 2018.
 (i)  the number mentioned in the 
Gazette to be recruited from 
each district for each course 
(except for physical Education 
course) from each medium 
will be recruited following 
the Note 4.0 and the methods 
indicated under the relevant 
courses considering the order 
of Z score the candidates have 
obtained in each district and 
other qualifications mentioned 
in the Gazette notification. The 
number recruited for the subject 
of Physical Education from each 
district under each medium will 
be decided according to the order 
of marks for sports obtained 
by each candidate as indicated 
in 4.0 and under the relevant 
course.
 (ii)  the number mentioned in 
the Gazette to be recruited 
from plantation districts to 
sripada National college of 
Education for each course from 
each medium will be selected 
following the Note 4.0 under the 
special conditions mentioned in 
the Gazette notification, other 
qualifications with the order 
of Z score the candidates have 
obtained in each district. 

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1261
6.1.2 When the selections are made on the basis of 
Z-score, if one student should be selected out 
of several students who have obtained the same 
Z-score in the relevant district / considering   
the Performance of sports marks if one student 
should be selected out of several who have 
scored the same mark, the results obtained in six 
(06) score (main) subjects indicated in 3.5 of 3.0 
at the G.C.E. (O/L) examination at the first sitting 
will be considered.
 accordingly, marks will be awarded as 04 marks 
for a distinction Pass, 03 marks for a Very Good 
Pass, 02 marks for a credit Pass, and 01 mark for 
an ordinary Pass at the G.c.E. (o/L) results and 
the available number of vacancies will be filled 
based on the total marks obtained.
6.1.3 applicants of Physical Education, dance 
(oriental), dance (baratha), music (oriental), 
music (carnatic), drama and theater and Western 
music courses should reach a satisfactory level of 
performance at the Practical test conducted for 
the subject applied.
6.1.4 When the selections are made on district basis, 
if the required number of qualified applicants 
for a particular course is not available in the 
total database, the provincial performance of the 
applicants of the relevant province to which the 
particular district belongs to will be considered. 
if there are not enough candidates in the province 
to which the particular district belongs to, the 
national level performance of the candidates will 
be considered.
6.2 Determination of Permanent Residence:
6.2.1. district/Province of permanent residence of 
applicants will be determined as mentioned  
below. 
6.2.1.1. in the district basis recruitment, the 
applicant’s district should be the 
district in which the applicant resided 
in the year when s/he appeared for the 
G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in the first 
sitting and the two years immediately 
preceding to that.
6.2.1.2. it is emphasized that if the candidate 
has changed his/her district of 
permanent residence by present/has 
resided temporarily in the district 
for personal convenience/it is not the 
district of permanent residence of 
the candidate though it is the district 
where the candidate appeared for 
the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination at the 
first sitting or after that, the particular 
district will not be considered as the 
district of permanent residence.
6.2.1.3. the province in which the applicant 
permanently resided in the year                           
s/he appeared for the G.c.E. (a/L) 
Examination in the first sitting and the 
two years immediately preceding to 
that will be considered as the province 
of the applicant in determining the 
province.
6.2.2. Every applicant should confirm his/her 
permanent residence subjected to the ways 
mentioned below. 
NOTE: No applicant is required to attach any 
document relevant to permanent residence 
to applications because data of electoral 
registers will be checked online with the 
approval of the elections commission during 
the interview. 
 i. Applicants should confirm their permanent 
residence by the data of electoral registers as per 
the basis of recruitment.
 ii. in case of the years of which the applicant was 
unable to register in the electoral register due 
to being underage, permanent residence of the 
applicant in such years should be confirmed by the 
data of electoral registers in which the names of the 
applicant’s parents appear.
 iii. applicants who resided with a guardian other than 
the parents during the concerned period of time 
should confirm permanent residence at the interview 
by including such guardianship with the period of 
time, under the column ‘other information’ in the 
‘Certificate of Residence and Character’ issued by 
the Grama Niladhari (ds - 04). in case of the years 
of which the applicant was unable to register in 
the electoral register, permanent residence of the 
applicant in such years should be confirmed by the 

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1262
data of electoral registers in which the names of the 
applicant’s guardian appear.
 iV . In case that the applicant fails to confirm their 
permanent residence of  three  years or several 
of the years by the data of electoral registers due 
to the candidate being unable to register in the 
electorate, acceptable reasons should be provided 
for being unable to register in the electorate at 
the interview in the ‘Certificate of Residence and 
character’ issued by the Grama Niladhari (ds - 04) 
under the column ‘other information’ with the 
signature of the Grama Niladhari of the division 
where the applicant’s permanent residence is/was 
during the period concerned and counter signed by 
the divisional secretary.
 V.  In case that the applicant is able to confirm 
permanent residence only of one or two years 
through data of electoral registers due to non-
registration, permanent residence of the remaining 
year/years   should be  confirmed by  other  
acceptable documents (e.g. Certificate issued by  the 
Grama Niladhari, address in the National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of 
Persons).
6.3. Selection for Sripada National College of 
Education:
6.3.1. Vacancies will be filled as per the ratio of 
75% out of the applicants of the indian 
tamil origin and 25% out of sinhalese 
applicants. (indian tamil candidates should 
be able to prove their nationality at the 
interview with direct or secondary evidence 
and the nationality of their mother/father 
should appear as “Indian Tamil” in the birth 
certificate of the candidate.)
6.3.2. the number of applicants recruited will be 
allocated to plantation districts based on 
the available number of vacancies in those 
districts. 
6.3.3. applications for admission to sripada 
National college of Education will be 
entertained only from the children whose 
parents are estate workers and residents in 
plantation districts; Nuwara Eliya, kandy, 
matale, badulla, moneragala, Ratnapura, 
kegalle, kalutara, matara, Galle, 
kurunegala and colombo. 
6.3.4. Priority will be given to children of  the  
workers  who  work in estate sector at 
present and the children of estate workers 
living in estates after serving for at least 10 
years in the estate sector and retired/ left 
service on medical reasons/ passed away 
during 2009 - 2018.
6.3.5. In case of insufficient number of applicants 
as per the clause 6.3.4 above, applications 
from the children of the estate workers who 
fulfill the following qualifications will be 
considered even if they are not employed in 
the estate sector at the moment.
6.3.5.1. children of planta tion workers 
those who worked continuously at 
least for 05, 04, 03 years, by 2008 
or after that will be considered 
respectively. (Priority is given 
respectively as 2017, 2016, 2015).
6.3.6. In case of insufficient number of applicants 
qualified in Tamil Medium as mentioned 
above, applicants those who are not the 
children of employees in the plantation 
sector, but of indian tamil origin living in 
those districts will be considered.
6.3.7 In case of insufficiency of qualified 
applicants under the above category too, 
tamil medium applicants with indian tamil 
origin who are residing in other districts 
will be considered.
6.3.8. 6.3.8.1 In case of insufficient number 
of sinhala medium applicants 
from estate workers’ children of 
plantation districts, the rest of 
the vacancies will be filled out of 
those who have applied for the 
same course in sripada/ other 
National colleges of Education. 
the procedure of the selection 
will be the Z-score and the other 
required qualifications under the 
basis of recruitment.
6.3.8.2 In case of insufficient number 
of Tamil Medium qualified 
applicants according to 6.3.4 – 
6.3.7, the rest of the vacancies 

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1263
will be filled out of the qualified 
applicants in the data base 
for other National colleges 
of Education where the tamil 
medium interviews for the same 
course are conducted.
6.3.9.  at the interview, the children of the 
employees in the state and private sector 
estate companies should submit relevant 
documents out of the documents mentioned 
below to confirm that they are children of 
estate workers.
• The letter certified by the Estate 
superintendent relating to current 
service (with relevant time duration) 
that the parent is permanently and 
continuously serving and residing in 
estates.
• The letter certified by the Estate 
superintendent confirming the current 
permanent residence of the family 
members of estate workers those who 
have resigned from service due to 
medical reasons/ retired/passed away 
during 2009 - 2018 after serving in 
estate sector for 10 years. Permanent 
residence in the estate at present and the 
year and date of retirement/ resignation 
should be clearly mentioned in the letter 
and the Grama Niladhari certificate.
• The letter certified by the Estate 
Superintendent confirming the 
continuous service for the relevant 
period of 05 years or more in plantation 
sector workers who retired/resigned in 
or after 2009 indicating year and date of 
the retirement/ resignation clearly.
• Letter/s including Registration Numbers 
to prove that deductions are being/
have been made for the Employees’ 
Provident fund. The certificate issued 
by the Grama Niladhari confirming the 
residence in estates. 
6.3.10. applicants should submit an affidavit at the 
interview declaring that she/he will serve 
a period of ten  (10) years continuously in 
the schools in the plantation sector after the 
course.
6.3.11 in the case of an applicant having an indian 
tamil origin who had studied in sinhala 
medium, they will be considered for the 
percentage entitled to indian tamil origin. 
similarly, a sinhalese applicant who had 
studied in tamil medium will be considered 
for the sinhala medium percentage.
6.3.12 children of estate workers who apply for 
sripada National college of Education 
are eligible to apply for the other National 
colleges of Education also in their medium 
of study if they fulfill required qualification.
 
7.0 Other matters Related to Selection:
7.1.  selected applicants should be prepared to submit 
acceptable evidence and originals of certificates 
to confirm their eligibility for the relevant 
course at the interview. the opportunity of 
those who fail to appear in the interview without 
informing on due date will be filled with other 
applicants from the same district, based on the 
order of qualifications. Absentees will not be 
reconsidered.
7.2. it is mandatory to submit the originals of all 
certificates at the interview. Those who fail to 
do so will not be considered for selection.
7.3. Mental and physical fitness required by an 
applicant for reaching the expected level in the 
course and to enter the teaching Profession 
will be checked by the interview board at the 
first interview following the criteria given by 
the ministry of Education. the interview board 
will submit their recommendations on whether 
the applicant possesses the required mental and 
physical fitness to follow the course and enter 
the teaching Profession.
7.4. in accordance with paragraph 7.3 the applicants 
who have completed the qualifications under 
recruitment criteria and with eligibility as 
well, will be notified through registered 
post. accuracy of the submitted details will 
be rechecked by an interview board in the 
registration at the relevant National college of 

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1264
Education. only the candidates who are able to 
reconfirm their eligibility will be recruited to the 
relevant course at the particular National college 
of Education. those who fail to register at the 
relevant National college of Education within 
ten (10) working days of the due date will be 
deprived of the opportunity for admission. the 
vacancies created thereby, will be filled from the 
applicants in the data base after calling for an 
interview according to the performance order, 
subjected to the provisions stipulated in the 
recruitment procedure.
7.4.1. Hence, it is emphasized that there is no 
any opportunity to consider appeals of the 
applicants who are not registered during 
the stipulated period of time.
• Specific situations for which an 
interview board is unable to submit 
recommendations under 7.3 or 7.4 will 
be directed to a special board at the 
ministry of Education.  the report of the 
special board will be forwarded to the 
colleges of Education board/secretary 
to the Ministry of Education for the final 
decision.
7.5. applicants who are selected to register in the 
National college of Education after appearing 
for the first and second interviews are required 
to appear for a medical Examination before 
their admission to the colleges of Education for 
the certification of their health condition.
7.6. any applicant can apply for three courses 
according to order of their preference. 
Nevertheless, they will be called for interviews 
only for the courses they complete required 
qualifications and selection will be made 
according to the order of performance .  a 
candidate who has been qualified for more than 
one course will be selected for one course giving 
priority to the order of applicant’s preference for 
the courses. 
7.7   after admission to a course in a National college 
of Education, permission will not be granted 
to change such course/National college of 
Education even if the applicant is selected for 
another course. change of National college 
of Education/ course/ medium of the course 
under personal grievances will not be allowed 
after registration in any course in a National 
college of Education. 
7.8  If the sufficient number of applicants is not 
available for a particular course, the applicants 
will be transferred to the nearest college of 
Education where the same course is conducted.
7.9  the authority of the final decision regarding 
cancellation of a course for which a required 
number of teacher vacancies does not exist, 
determination of the number of student teachers 
recruited and placement of courses in National 
colleges of Education is held by colleges of 
Education board/secretary to the ministry of 
Education.
8.0 Persons who are not eligible for applying or 
admission to the courses.
8.1 those who have already obtained teaching 
appointments in Government schools, 
Government aided schools, Government 
Registered Pirivena or other approved 
institutions.
8.2 those who have been selected for a teaching 
appointment in a Government school.
8.3 those who are following or who have followed 
a course in a National college of Education or 
those who have deserted a course in a National 
college of Education.
8.4 those who are registered/ are following/followed 
a degree course under “the privileges of state free 
Education”, registered as an internal student in 
a state University or state University institute 
where G.c.E. (a/L) is the entry requirement. 
(students, who withdraw the registration in 
such institutions after the Gazette Notification 
is published, will not be eligible for applying 
or admission. applicants who get registered 
and withdraw their registration of the above 
institutions after the Gazette Notification is 
published/appearing in the interview too will not 
be eligible for admission.)
8.5 student teachers whose registration in a National 
college of Education has been terminated on 
disciplinary grounds/ any other reasons.

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1265
8.6 applicants who have registered the marriage or 
divorced.
9.0 Conditions applicable for the course:
9.1. duration of a course is three years. this period 
consists of two year residential institutional 
training in the National college of Education 
and one year internship training attached to a 
school. attendance of a student teacher should 
be not less than 90% to enable him/ her to sit 
for the External final Examination at the end of 
the second year.
9.2. Every student teacher should pass in the internal 
continuous assessments and the internal tests 
held in the first and the second year and the 
External final Examination. Except those who 
follow English medium courses, all those who 
follow other courses should pass in the English 
subject at the above examinations.
9.3. during the period of two year residential course 
of study, a student teacher will be provided 
with meals and lodging facilities to the value 
of Rs. 5,000/- per month for ten(10) months in 
a year. during the internship year, a monthly 
allowance of Rs. 5,000/- will be paid for ten 
(10) months. other expenses for personal 
requirements should be borne by the student  
teacher.
9.4. student teachers who register in a National 
college of Education should sign in a bond and 
agreement with the secretary to the ministry 
of Education to the value of five hundred 
thousand Rupees (Rs. 500,000.00) for the 
expenditure made by the government for the 
course of the applicant and the provision of 
other infra-structure facilities. if the candidates 
give up the course within sixty (60) calendar 
days of registration  at the National college of 
Education, they are allowed to do so after paying 
the sum spent by the government for the student 
teacher.  if the candidates give up the course 
after sixty (60) calendar days of registration at 
the National college of Education, they should 
pay the whole sum mentioned in the bond and 
the agreement (Rs.500, 000. 00). a candidate 
who does not attend the course work for a 
period not less than a month without any proper 
notice, they will be considered deserters and 
be dismissed from the course after the whole 
sum mentioned in the bond and the agreement 
(Rs.500,000. 00) is charged. 
 student teachers who do not accept the 
appointment to a government school after 
the successful completion of the course, 
should pay the whole sum mentioned in the 
bond and the agreement (Rs.500, 000. 00) to 
the government. those who do not serve the 
government for five (05) years after successful 
completion of the course should pay the sum 
for the remaining period (counted in months) to 
complete five years. It is calculated as below;
 Rs. 500, 000. 00   × remaining number of                 
                60  months to be completed  
 
        
9.4.1 if a candidate gives up the course due 
to special medical reasons during the 
course period, the following documentary 
evidence should be submitted to prove the 
actual condition of the ailment.
• Acceptable records of diagnosis, 
medical checkups and prescriptions.
• The letter of a government medical 
officer confirming the inability of the 
student teacher to continue the course 
of study any longer.
 management board of the particular 
National college of Education will 
forward their observations and 
recommendations after checking 
the above documents. considering 
the above recommendations,  a  
board consisting of officials of the 
ministry of Education and  a  board 
of medical officers will submit their 
recommendations for the  approval  
of  the  colleges of  Education  board/ 
secretary to the ministry of Education. 
With this approval, the student teacher 
will be permitted to resign from the 
course with no imbursement.

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1266
9.4.2. No student teacher is permitted to go 
abroad during the course or the period till 
permanent appointment is given, except 
when duly resigned from the course.
9.5 if a student teacher’s registration happened 
to be terminated on disciplinary grounds or 
being found out that he/she has submitted false 
information or for harbouring true information 
in relation to Para. 8.0 above under ‘Persons 
who are not eligible for applying or admission’, 
the student teacher will be surcharged the 
whole amount incurred for him/her in the bond 
(Rs.500, 000.00).
9.6 during the period of course a student teacher 
will not be allowed to follow a course mentioned 
in section 8.4. if it is found out that a student 
teacher is following such a course, the sum 
of the bond and agreement (Rs.500, 000.00) 
incurred for him/her will be surcharged and 
the student teacher’s registration will be 
terminated.
9.7 it is mandatory that the applicants who are 
following/have registered for a diploma/higher 
diploma/professional course in any state higher 
education institution under the qualifications 
and conditions mentioned  in Para 8.4 of the 
Gazette notification resign from such courses 
and submit the relevant documents to prove 
their resignation, to the National college of 
Education on the day of registration, if selected 
to a National college of Education. applicants 
who fail to do so will not be registered in the 
National college of Education.
9.8 if the student teacher registers marriage 
during the period of the course or found to 
have registered the marriage/ divorced before 
the registration at the National college of 
Education/ at the time of applying for the 
course, the studentship will be terminated. 
those who get divorced giving various reasons 
after being found to be married too will not be 
given studentship.
9.9 if the clergy who are recruited under special 
provisions disrobe within the period of 
course the sum of the bond and agreement                                  
(Rs. 500,000.00) incurred for him/her will 
be surcharged and the studentship will be 
terminated. the clergy of all religions should 
sign a bond and agreement with the ministry 
of Education for at least 5 years’ service 
without being disrobed after the completion of 
the course. if disrobed for any reason before 
completing the five (05) years, the amount for 
the remaining number of years (counted in 
months) should be paid to the government. it is 
calculated as below:
 Rs. 5,00,000. 00   × remaining number of 
              60 months to  be completed.
                                              
NOTE:
• if disrobed during the probation period, such 
clergy will be surcharged the relevant amount and 
dismissed.
9.10 if a student teacher fails to exhibit the 
progress expected in his/her general conduct, 
attendance, enthusiasm and studies during 
the study course (inclusive of co-curricular 
activities), their studentship will be terminated.  
Likewise, studentship of those who do not 
reach a satisfactory level in the assessment 
during the first year of academic training will 
be terminated. decision of the colleges of 
Education board/ secretary to the ministry 
of Education shall be final, regarding these 
matters.
9.11 if any complaints are received in relation to 
the physical and mental fitness of the student 
teacher either from the President of the college 
during the course or from the Principal of 
the school during the internship period, the 
student teacher will be referred to a special 
interview. final decision will be taken after 
the submission of that report to the colleges of 
Education board/ secretary to the ministry of 
Education.
9.12. if the student teacher is proved  to have engaged 
him/herself in any action against the code of 
conduct of National colleges of Education, 
colleges of Educati on board/secretary to the 
ministry of Education holds the authority of 
taking disciplinary action such as suspension 
to academic classes/extension of the course/ 
termination of studentship/any other suitable 
punishment under the recommendation of the 

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1267
disciplinary board of the particular National 
college of Education.
9.13. student teachers are not permitted to follow any 
other course during weekdays or at weekends 
outside the college under any circumstances. 
9.14. if a teacher holding a National diploma in 
teaching, for any reason, resigns from service 
or resigns and goes abroad within the first five 
years of service, they should pay the amount 
for the remaining time (calculated in months) 
out of the whole amount mentioned in the bond 
and the agreement (Rs. 500,000.00) to the 
government. it is calculated as below:
         Rs. 5,00, 000. 00 × remaining number of 
               60 months to be completed.
               
NOTE:
  Those who resign during the first five years of service 
as mentioned in 9.13 will not be permitted to re-enter 
service as a holder of National diploma in teaching.
  National diploma Holders are not eligible to claim for 
the detailed certificate if they have not completed five 
(05) years active service in a government school. 
  National diploma holders who have not completed 
the first five (05) year active service and within the 
probation period are granted no pay leave to go 
abroad only for study purposes under the provisions 
of circular 24/2017 of the secretary to the ministry 
of Education, Gazette Notification, bond, agreement, 
rules and regulations of the Establishment code and 
the laws in function at the time.
  National diploma holders who have not completed 
the first five (05) year active service and have been 
confirmed in the service are granted no pay leave to 
go abroad for study/ job purpose under the provisions 
of circular 24/2017 of the secretary to the ministry 
of Education, Gazette Notification, bond, agreement, 
16
th clause of the chapter Xii of the Establishment 
code and the laws in function at the time.
9.15. National diploma in teaching will be 
awarded to the student teachers who will 
successfully complete the course. course 
Work and Personality development (inclusive 
of compulsory co-curricular activities) will 
be continuously assessed during the period 
of course and this assessment will form a 
component of the final evaluation in awarding 
the National diploma in teaching.
9.16. the student teachers who successfully complete 
the National diploma inteaching will be given 
appointments as teachers to the government 
schools. they should agree to serve in any 
part of the country if no vacancies exist in the 
relevant district/ province in placement even if 
they are recruited on district/ province/ national 
basis. (the conditions stipulated under the 
course numbers 45 and 46 are relevant for the 
courses of second Language - sinhala/ tamil) 
colleges of Education board/secretary to 
the ministry of Education holds the authority 
of placement subjected to the approval of 
Education service committee of the Public 
services commission.
9.16.1. the applicants who are called for 
interviews for recruitment should 
appear for the interview only if they 
agree to the above conditions.
9.16.2. applicants who follow the course 
under the above conditions should 
teach the same  subject that they are 
studying. in addition to that, after 
completing the National diploma 
in teaching, the applicants who are 
recruited on district/ provincial/ 
National basis should sign a bond 
and agreement with the secretary to 
the ministry of Education stating that 
they will serve for a minimum period 
of five (05) years from the date of first 
appointment as a condition of service 
in the relevant district/ province which 
they get their first appointment based 
on their district/ province of permanent 
residence or the district named under 
national basis or any district/ province 
where the first appointment is given. 
9.17. if any applicant attempts to get the selected 
National college of Education changed by the 
ministry of Education on medical/ personal 
reasons, s/he will not be eligible  for admission.

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1268
9.18. Any improper influence made to the relevant 
officials by the applicant himself/ herself or 
any  other party related to the applicant during 
the recruitment procedure will  be considered a 
disqualification in recruitment.
9.19. All educational and other qualifications in 
relation to the course applied by the applicant 
should have been completed on or before the 
closing date (25. 09. 2020) of applying.
9.20. In case of insufficient number of qualified 
applicants according to the order of 
performance in district/provincial/ national 
level for a particular course in a National 
college of Education to be recruited in the 
relevant medium from the particular district, 
the remaining number of vacancies will be 
filled with the qualified applicants under 
national basis, giving priority to the courses 
that have the highest teacher requirement in 
the education system among the other courses 
that are conducted in the particular National 
college of Education. (Priority will be given to 
the conditions indicated in  ‘NotE’ – iv under 
‘Primary Education course’ and 6.3.8 of 6.3 
mentioned under ‘selection to sripada National 
college of Education’)
10.0 Instructions for Applying:
• Applications should be submitted with a good 
understanding of the number recruited for 
each course on district basis as mentioned in 
the tables 14.1, 14.2, 14.3 and 14.4 relevant to 
14.0 of the gazette notification.
10.1. Special Note;
10.1.1. It is compulsory that every applicant 
submits his or her application through 
Online system. 
Note.– applications should not be forwarded 
through registered post. 
10.1.2. online submission of application should 
be made only in the medium of English. 
accordingly, applicants should log 
into the official website of ministry of 
Education to access the relevant online 
system as mentioned below and apply 
following the steps given :
1. www.moe.gov.lk
2. stUdENts tab
3. online admissions 
4. Ncoe admissions-2020
10.2. the applicant is completely responsible to 
provide accurate details after reading the 
instructions in the Gazette notification carefully 
as no opportunity will be provided to amend the 
information once the application is filled and 
submitted online according to 10.1.1 above. 
Especially, the requests to amend the information 
related to applied course or other information 
will not be accepted.
10.3  Every applicant can apply for three (03) 
courses in maximum, paying special attention 
to conditions, qualifications and the number of 
vacancies mentioned in the Gazette notification.
10.4  applying for the same course in two mediums 
is considered as applying for two (02) courses. 
Those who are bearing priesthood in a religion 
should apply for the course pertaining to their 
religion only.
         e.g. – An applicant who applies for the Science 
Course both in Sinhala and English mediums 
is considered to have applied for two courses. 
Then that applicant can apply one more 
course only. 
 
10.5  Numbers relevant for the districts under Para 
6.2.1 of 6.2 – ‘determining the permanent 
residence’ of the Gazette notification are 
mentioned below :
 
• The number of the permanent resident 
district of the applicant should be mentioned 
accurately paying special attention to those 
district numbers.
 

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1269
District Number
colombo 01
Gampaha 02
kalutara 03
kandy 04
matale 05
Nuwaraeliya 06
Galle 07
matara 08
Hambantota 09
Jaffna 10
kilinochchi 11
mannar 12
Vavuniya 13
mulaitive 14
batticaloa 15
ampara 16
trincomalee 17
kurunegala 18
Puttlam 19
anuradapura 20
Polonnaruwa 21
badulla 22
monaragala 23
Rathnapura 24
kegalle 25
10.6  it is compulsory that the applicants who apply 
for the courses of buddhism, Hinduism, islam, 
catholicism/ christianity, Physical Education, 
Western music must attach scanned copies 
of the relevant certificates submitted to prove 
the special qualifications as per the Gazette 
notification as attachments with the application 
when it is submitted through online system itself.
10.7  it is advisable for the applicants to create a 
personal email address before applying if the 
applicants do not have a personal email address 
by the time they submit their applications 
through online system.
10.8  ministry of Education will bear no responsibility 
about the inconveniences faced by the applicants 
who apply without required qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification for the 
courses.
10.9 Every applicant is provided with the facility 
to obtain a printed copy of the relevant 
application after applying through online 
system. This hard copy (PDf) should be 
kept with the applicant. all inquiries and 
appeals should be made with a photocopy of that 
document. ministry of Education will bear no 
responsibility about the inconveniences faced by 
the applicants due to being inattentive to these 
instructions.
10.10 Applying for a course is not a qualification for 
the recruitment. Recruitment is made only by 
considering the vacancies of the district and the 
conditions mentioned in the Gazette Notification. 
colleges of Education board/ secretary to the 
Ministry of Education reserves the rights of final 
decision regarding this.
10.11 If any certificate submitted by the applicant is 
revealed later to be forged or fraudulent, the 
applicant will be dismissed from the course/ 
service and will further be ineligible for any post 
in Public service.
11.0 Regarding any problems or specific situations 
arising with regard to the information and qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification, the decision of the 
colleges of Education board/ secretary to the ministry of 
Education will be the final decision.
12.0   mentioned in the tables 14.1, 14.2, 14.3 given in 
the succeeding pages under 14.0 - ‘admission of student 
teachers to National colleges of Education based on G.c.E. 
(a/ L) results in 2018 – 2020’ are the numbers to be recruited 
for each course under each medium from each district to the 
National colleges of Education except for sripada National 
college of Education and the table 14.4 shows  the number 
to be recruited for each course  on plantation district basis 
under sinhala , tamil and English mediums for the sripada 
National college of Education. 
13.0    in the event of any inconsistency between sinhala 
and tamil or English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
sinhala text shall prevail.
 Professor k. 
kapila C. k. perera,
 secretary,
 ministry of Education.
ministry of Education, 
isurupaya, 
battaramulla,
21st of august, 2020.

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1270
14.0 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2018 on District basis - 2020
14.1 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education (Except for Sripada National College of Education) - Sinhala medium
province
       name of 
      the 
         Course
district
primary education
Science
mathematics 
Social Science
buddhism
Catholicism/ Christianity 
first language (Sinhala)
Art
dance (Oriental)
Music (Oriental)
drama & Theatre 
physical education
home economics
Agriculture & food 
Technology
Technical Studies  - Crafts 
& Art  
design & Technology
information & 
Communication 
Technology
Second Language 
(Sinhala)
Special education
business & accounting 
Studies
design & 
Construction 
Technology  
design & mechanical 
Technology 
design & electrical 
&  electronic 
Tecnology
Western colombo 58 11 9 2 5 2 6 3 4 3 1 5 2 4 0 0 1 1 1 5 3 2
Gampaha 74 8 7 2 5 3 5 3 4 3 1 6 3 4 1 1 0 1 1 3 2 3
kalutara 49 7 7 1 4 2 5 3 2 3 1 6 3 4 1 1 1 1 1 7 2 3
central kandy 60 9 9 2 6 2 7 4 4 4 1 4 1 4 0 1 1 0 1 8 5 2
matale 43 7 5 2 4 1 4 2 2 2 1 4 1 2 1 0 1 1 1 6 2 1
Nuwara Eliya 39 6 5 1 5 2 4 1 1 2 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 6 2 1
southern Galle 65 9 7 2 6 2 5 5 4 3 1 8 3 4 0 1 1 1 1 3 2 1
Hambantota 50 10 6 2 4 1 4 2 2 3 1 5 3 4 1 0 1 1 1 3 2 1
matara 55 9 8 2 6 1 5 2 2 2 1 4 2 3 1 1 0 1 1 5 2 2
Nothern Jaffna 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
kilinochchi 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
mannar 4 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0
mulaitivu 3 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0
Vavuniya 10 4 3 0 3 1 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 4 1 1
Eastern ampara 32 7 6 1 4 1 3 2 2 2 1 2 1 2 1 1 0 1 1 6 2 1
batticaloa 5 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0
trincomalee 11 4 4 1 3 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 5 1 1
North Western kurunegala 84 9 10 3 9 2 6 4 5 4 1 8 2 4 2 1 1 1 1 7 5 3
Puttalam 47 9 7 1 4 3 4 1 2 2 1 4 1 2 1 1 1 0 1 4 2 2
North central anuradhapura 78 10 9 1 6 2 5 3 3 3 1 5 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 4 3 1
Polonnaruwa 35 9 7 1 4 2 4 2 2 2 1 2 1 2 1 1 1 0 1 2 2 1
Uva badulla 57 11 7 2 7 2 5 2 2 2 1 3 2 3 1 1 1 1 1 6 2 1
monaragala 48 9 9 1 5 1 4 2 2 2 1 2 3 2 0 0 1 1 1 2 2 1
sabaragamuwa kegalle 54 11 7 1 5 2 4 3 3 3 1 5 4 4 1 1 0 1 1 10 6 1
Ratnapura 79 10 8 2 5 2 5 4 2 3 1 3 3 4 1 1 1 1 1 8 2 1
Total 1040 170 143 30 100 35 90 50 50 50 20 80 40 60 15 15 15 15 20 110 50 30
Grand Total 2228

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1271
14.0 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2018 on District basis - 2020
14.2 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education (Except for Sripada National College of Education) - Tamil medium
  
province
    name of 
        the 
         Course
district
primary education
Science
mathematics 
Social Science
hinduism
islam
Catholicism/ Christianity 
first language (tamil)
Art
dance (bharatha)
Music (carnatic)
drama & Theatre 
physical education
home economics
Agriculture & food 
Technology
Technical Studies  - Crafts 
& Art
design & Technology
information & 
Communication Technology
Second language (tamil)
Special education
business & accounting 
Studies
design & 
Construction 
Technology  
design & 
mechanical 
Technology 
design & 
electrical & 
electronic 
Tecnology
Western colombo 12 3 2 1 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 2 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 3 1 1
Gampaha 8 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0
kalutara 11 2 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 0 1 0 2 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 4 1 1
central kandy 15 4 2 2 1 2 2 2 1 0 1 0 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 5 1 1
matale 10 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 3 1 1
Nuwara Eliya 15 3 3 1 2 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 0 0 1 1 3 2 1
southern Galle 5 2 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 2 1 1
Hambantota 4 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0
matara 5 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 1 0
Nothern Jaffna 46 7 6 3 2 2 2 3 1 1 1 1 4 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1
kilinochchi 10 3 2 2 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1
mannar 19 3 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
mulaitivu 10 3 2 2 2 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
Vavuniya 23 4 3 2 2 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1
Eastern ampara 38 5 5 2 2 2 1 2 1 1 1 1 4 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 3 1 1
batticaloa 32 4 4 2 2 2 3 3 1 1 1 1 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 2 2 1
trincomalee 30 5 3 2 2 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 3 2 1
North Western kurunegala 11 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 2 1 1 0 1 0 0 1 6 1 1
Puttalam 14 3 3 1 1 2 2 2 1 0 1 0 2 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 3 1 1
North central anuradhapura 12 2 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 0 0 2 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 2 1 1
Polonnaruwa 7 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 1 0
Uva badulla 19 3 3 1 2 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 5 2 1
monaragala 5 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 2 1 0
sabaragamuwa kegalle 15 3 2 1 1 2 1 2 1 1 0 0 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 3 2 1
Ratnapura 14 3 2 1 1 1 2 2 1 0 1 0 2 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 4 1 1
Total 390 70 55 30 30 30 30 40 20 15 15 10 50 25 25 15 15 15 15 10 70 30 20
Grand Total 1025

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1272
14.0 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2018 on District basis - 2020
14.3 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education (Except for Sripada National College of Education) - English medium
province
                  name of 
                 the 
                  Course
       district
Science mathematics english Western music information & 
Communication Technology
 Western colombo 3 3 28 1 11
Gampaha 3 3 25 0 7
kalutara 2 1 20 1 6
central kandy 3 2 23 1 8
matale 2 1 21 1 7
Nuwara Eliya 1 2 18 0 5
southern Galle 3 2 22 1 7
Hambantota 2 1 20 0 6
matara 2 2 19 1 8
Nothern Jaffna 2 3 18 1 6
kilinochchi 1 1 13 0 4
mannar 1 1 12 0 4
mulaitivu 1 1 11 0 4
Vavuniya 1 2 15 0 5
Eastern ampara 2 2 18 0 7
batticaloa 1 2 15 0 6
trincomalee 2 1 13 0 6
North Western kurunegala 3 3 29 1 9
Puttalam 1 2 19 0 7
North central anuradhapura 2 2 20 0 8
Polonnaruwa 1 1 16 0 7
Uva badulla 2 2 18 1 8
monaragala 1 1 15 0 8
sabaragamuwa kegalle 1 2 20 1 8
Ratnapura 2 2 22 0 8
Total 45 45 470 10 170
Grand Total 740

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1273
14.0 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2018 on District basis - 2020
14.3 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education (Except for Sripada National College of Education) - English medium
province
                  name of 
                 the 
                  Course
       district
Science mathematics english Western music information & 
Communication Technology
 Western colombo 3 3 28 1 11
Gampaha 3 3 25 0 7
kalutara 2 1 20 1 6
central kandy 3 2 23 1 8
matale 2 1 21 1 7
Nuwara Eliya 1 2 18 0 5
southern Galle 3 2 22 1 7
Hambantota 2 1 20 0 6
matara 2 2 19 1 8
Nothern Jaffna 2 3 18 1 6
kilinochchi 1 1 13 0 4
mannar 1 1 12 0 4
mulaitivu 1 1 11 0 4
Vavuniya 1 2 15 0 5
Eastern ampara 2 2 18 0 7
batticaloa 1 2 15 0 6
trincomalee 2 1 13 0 6
North Western kurunegala 3 3 29 1 9
Puttalam 1 2 19 0 7
North central anuradhapura 2 2 20 0 8
Polonnaruwa 1 1 16 0 7
Uva badulla 2 2 18 1 8
monaragala 1 1 15 0 8
sabaragamuwa kegalle 1 2 20 1 8
Ratnapura 2 2 22 0 8
Total 45 45 470 10 170
Grand Total 740
14.0 Recruitment of Student Teachers to the National Colleges of Education on the Results of G.C.E. (A/L) Examination - 2018 on District basis - 2020
14.4  Recruitment of Student Teachers to Sripada National College of Education on Plantaion District basis  - Sinhala/Tamil/ English medium
province
 name of 
        the 
         Course
district
Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English 
Medium
primary 
education
Science
mathematics 
Social Science
primary 
education
Science
mathematics 
Social Science
first Language 
(tamil)
Art
dance 
(bharatha)
music 
(carnatic)
information & 
Communication 
Technology
Western colombo 1 1 0 1 4 1 0 1 1 0 0 1 1
kalutara 2 1 1 2 7 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2
central kandy 2 1 1 2 9 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1
matale 1 1 0 1 7 1 1 2 3 1 1 1 1
Nuwara Eliya 3 1 1 3 14 2 2 3 4 2 1 1 3
southern Galle 2 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 1
matara 2 0 1 2 2 1 0 1 2 1 1 0 2
North Western kurunegala 1 1 1 1 5 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1
Uva badulla 1 1 1 2 9 2 2 1 3 1 1 1 3
monaragala 1 0 1 1 5 1 0 1 1 0 1 0 1
sabaragamuwa kegalle 2 1 1 1 7 1 0 3 2 1 1 1 2
Ratnapura 2 1 1 2 9 2 1 2 2 1 1 1 2
Total 20 10 10 20 80 15 10 20 25 10 10 10 20
Grand Total 260
09–144

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1274
miNistRy of EdUcatioN
STATE mINISTRy Of SkILLS DEvELOPmENT, vOCATIONAL EDuCATION, RESEARCh & 
INNOvATIONS 
Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological Education
admissioN of stUdENts to tHE adVaNcEd tEcHNoLoGicaL 
iNstitUtEs foR tHE acadEmic yEaR 2020
aPPLicatioNs are called for Higher National diploma (HNd) programmes conducted by the sri Lanka institute of 
advanced technological Education (sLiatE) from those who have successfully completed the G.c.E. (a/L) Examination 
in 2019 or preceding years.
how to Apply.– 
application should be done only via apply.sliate.ac.lk and any other means of application will not be accepted.
Eligible candidates can select HNd programmes under two categories that are based on the Z-score and marks of 
the selection test conducted by sLiatE.
sLiatE Programmes based on Z-score
Category - 1
HNda, HNdba, HNdbf, HNdE (ciViL), HNdE 
(mEcHaNicaL), HNdE (ELEctRicaL & ELEctRoNics), 
HNDQS, HNDBSE, HNDT (Agri.) 
sLiatE Programmes based on selection test mark
Category - 2
HNd in English, HNdit, HNdm, HNdPm, HNdtHm, 
HNdft, HNdcsPt 
please refer Section A for entry Qualifications of Hnd programmes and Section B for Advanced Technological 
institutes (atis) details.
Eligible candidates can apply for a maximum of five academic programmes in each category (Category -1 & 
category -2) at a cost of Rs.500/= per category.
if a candidate applies for both categories, the payment should be done separately for each application directly to the 
bank.  Online payment is not allowed.
transaction number (tRN) of the bank payment receipt should be entered into the online application.
Payments should be credited to sLiatE account 025-2-001-1-3397613 at Peoples’ bank, Hyde Park branch 
colombo 02 or any other branch of the Peoples’ bank in sri Lanka on or before 06th October 2020. 
A hard copy of the application that is system generated after the confirmation of online application, should be 
signed and sent along with the payment receipt to the relevant advanced technological institute (ati) where the applicant’s 
first preference is given on or before 06th October 2020 via registered post.
the reference number generated by the online system should be clearly stated at the top -left corner of the 
envelope.
status of the application during and after processing will be informed via the given e-mail address, mobile phone 
number or by post.
applications received after the closing date 06/10/2020 will not be entertained under any circumstances.  

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1275
mODE Of CONDuCTING PROGRAmmES
full-time courses         
Part-time courses (during Weekends)
medium of instruction: - English
 
Part-Time courses are conducted for those who are employed in the relevant fields.
COuRSE fEES
full-time course fee - free
Part-time course fees per semester are as follows : 
 Higher National diploma in accountancy – HNda Rs.7, 500/=
 Higher National diploma in English –HNd in English Rs.12, 000/=
 Higher National diploma in information technology – HNdit Rs.18, 000/=
REGISTRATION
Originals and certified copies of the educational and other required documents should be produced at the registration. 
hOSTEL fACILITIES
a limited number of full-time students will be provided hostel facilities on request only at the following atis. 
 ati dehiwala and Gampaha     - only for female students   
 ati ampara and colombo   -  male & female students
Section "A”
Entry qualifications for the HNDs
 1. higher National Diploma in Accountancy (hNDA) 
  1.1 full-Time - 4 years
        Applicants should have the following qualifications:
   (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting with credit pass for Economics and accountancy 
    and
    ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination.
  1.2 Part-Time - 4 years
    Applicants should have one of the following qualifications :
   (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting with credit pass for Economics and accounting
    and
    ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
    or
   (ii) Completion of any of the certificate courses given below conducted by the Department of Technical 
     Education & training (dtEt)
    a. National Certificate in Accounting Technicians
    b. National Certificate in Business Studies
    c. National Certificate in Accounting
    and
ordinary pass for English Language at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination and the applicant should be 
employed in the relevant field in a government institution/public enterprise/ recognized firm or self-
employed (entrepreneur) 
HNDA part time applicants who possess the following qualifications will be exempted from the 
1
st year and will be enrolled to the 2 nd year if other entry requirements are met along with the 
availability at atis.

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1276
 (i) completion of the Higher National diploma in business administration/ business finance & 
National diploma in business studies conducted by the sLiatE.
 (ii) completion of second year of the Higher National diploma in commerce conducted by the dtEt. 
 (iii) completion of Executive level or cab i and cab ii or foundation & intermediate level or 
Licentiate i and ii conducted by the institute of chartered accountants of sri Lanka ca –sri Lanka
 (iv) completion of Part i and Part ii of the chartered institute of management accountants (cima – 
Uk). 
 (v) completion of the association of accounting technicians (aat). 
 (vi) Completion of the Associated Certified Management Accountants (ACMA) conducted by the 
Institute of Certified Management Accountants (CMA-Sri Lanka).
Note: - according to the Public administration circular No. 46/90, the Higher National diploma in 
Accountancy has been recognized to be accepted as an alternative qualification to a General Degree 
in commerce (ordinary pass), awarded by a recognized University for recruitment purposes.
2.  higher National Diploma in business Administration – (hNDbA) full-Time – 2 ½ years
3.  higher National Diploma in business finance – (hNDbf)full-Time – 2 ½ years
 Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in commerce stream
                                                                     and
   ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
4.  higher National Diploma in Consumer Sciences and Product Technology – (hNDCSPT) 
  full-Time – 3 years               
Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in any stream including Home science or Home 
Economics as a subject
  and
  ordinary passes in English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
5.  higher National Diploma in Engineering (hNDE - Civil):  full-Time – 3 ½ yrs.
6.  higher National Diploma in Engineering (hNDE - Electrical & Electronic): full-Time-3½ yrs.
7.  higher National Diploma in Engineering (hNDE - mechanical): full-Time – 3 ½ yrs.     
8.  higher National Diploma in Quantity Surveying (hNDQS): full-Time – 2 ½ yrs.
9.  higher National Diploma in building Services Engineering (hNDbSE): full-Time – 3 ½ yrs.
Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in Physical science stream (chemistry, Physics 
and combined mathematics)
  and
  ordinary pass in English at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
  
10. higher National Diploma in English (hND in English) 
 10.1 full-Time – 2 ½ years
  Applicants should have the following qualifications: 
    (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in any stream 
     and

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1277
     ordinary pass for General English at the G. c. E. a/L examination
     and
     credit pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination.
     or
     ordinary pass for appreciation of English Literary texts at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
                                                          
 10.2 Part-Time – 2 ½ years 
    In addition to the qualifications in 10.1, the applicant should be employed in a government institution/ 
public enterprise / recognized firm or self-employed (entrepreneur).
11.  higher National Diploma in food Technology (hNDfT) full-Time – 2 ½ years
  Applicants should have the following qualifications:
    (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in bio science or Physical science stream
     and
     ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
12. higher National Diploma in Information Technology (hNDIT) 
 12.1 full Time – 2 ½ years
   Applicants should have the following qualifications:
    (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in any stream
     and
     ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
        
 12.2 Part-Time – 2 ½ years 
  In addition to the qualifications in 12.1, the applicant should be employed in the relevant field in a 
government institution / public enterprise / recognized firm or self-employed (entrepreneur).
13.  higher National Diploma in management (hNDm)
       full-Time –   3 years
  Applicants should have the following qualifications:
  (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in any stream 
   or
  (ii) National Certificate for Accounting Technicians or National Certificate in Business Studies 
(Public administration / marketing) conducted by the department of technical Education & 
training 
   and
   ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination 
14. higher National Diploma in Project management (hNDPm)
       full-Time – 2 ½ years
  Applicants should have the following qualifications:
    (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in any stream
      and
     ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination   
15.  higher National Diploma in Technology Agriculture – (hNDT- Agriculture)
      full-Time – 3 years
  Applicants should have the following qualifications:
 (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in bio science stream (including three of 
following subjects: chemistry, agricultural science, biology and Physics).
  and
  ordinary pass for English and mathematics at G. c. E. (o/L) examination

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1278
16.  higher National Diploma in Tourism & hospitality management – (hNDThm)
      full-Time – 3 years
       Applicants should have the following qualifications:
    (i) Passed the G.c.E. (a/L) examination in one sitting in any stream
     and
     ordinary pass for English and mathematics at the G.c.E. (o/L) examination
Section "B”
Names of ATIs, Addresses, Telephone Numbers and the higher National Diploma (hND) courses [full Time (fT) & 
Part Time (PT)]
Name of ATI Address Telephone
Numbers
Courses Offered 
01 Hardy advanced
technological 
institute - ampara
Prof. Even a Hardy 
mawatha, ampara.
063-2222056
063-2223035
HNdt (agri)(ft), HNda (ft), 
HNdm(ft), HNdit (ft), HNdtHm(ft), 
HNd in English (ft), 
HNda (Pt),  HNd in English (Pt) HNdit (Pt)
02 advanced technological 
institute - anuradhapura
akkara 111,
anula mw, 
Pandulagama,
anuradhapura.
025-2234417  HNdit(ft), HNda (ft), HNd in English 
(ft), HNdtHm(ft), 
 HNdit(Pt) HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt) 
03 advanced technological 
institute - badulla
Greenland drive, 
badulla.
055-2230218
055-2223818
HNdit (ft), HNda (ft),  HNdm(ft),  
HNd in English (ft), HNdtHm(ft), 
HNdit (Pt), HNda (Pt),HNd in English (Pt) 
04 advanced technological 
institute - batticaloa
main street, 
kovil kulam East,  
arayampathy, 
batticaloa.
065-2247519
065-2247470
HNdit (ft), HNda (ft), HNd in 
English,(ft) HNdtHm(ft), 
HNda (Pt),  HNd in English (Pt),  
HNdit (Pt), 
05 advanced technological 
institute - colombo
No. 42,
Rodrigo Place, 
colombo 15.
011-2521152
011-2521282
HNdE (civil)(ft), HNdE (mechanical) (ft), 
HNdE (Electrical & Electronics) (ft)  
HNDQS(FT), HNDBSE(FT)
06 advanced technological 
institute - dehiwala
No 51, Waidya Rd, 
dehiwala.
011-2738349 HNdit (ft), HNda (ft), HNdm (f/t), 
HNdba (ft), HNd in English (ft), 
HNdbf(ft), HNdtHm(ft),
HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt), 
07 advanced technological 
institute - Galle 
siridamma mw,
Labuduwa, 
akmeemana,
Galle.
091-2246179 HNdE (civil)(ft), 
HNdE(mechanical) (ft), 
HNdE(Electrical & Electronics) (ft), 
HNdit (ft), HNdt(agri)(ft),  
HNda (ft), HNdm(ft), HNdtHm(ft), 
HNdba(ft), HNd in English (ft), 
HNDQS(FT)
HNda (Pt), HNdit (Pt), HNd in  English (Pt) 

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1279
Name of ATI Address Telephone
Numbers
Courses Offered 
08 advanced technological 
institute - Gampaha
Naiwala, 
Essalla,
Veyangoda.
033-2287519
033-2292544
HNdt (agri) (ft), HNdit (ft),  
HNdft(ft), HNdcsPt(ft),HNda (ft), 
HNda (Pt),), HNdit (Pt), 
09 advanced technological
institute - Jaffna
No. 665/2,
beach Rd. 
Gurunagar, Jaffna.
021-2222595
021-2229803
HNdE (civil)(ft) , HNdE 
(Electrical & Electronics)(ft), 
HNda (ft), HNd in English(ft), 
HNDTHM(FT), HNDQS(FT), HNDM(FT), 
HNdit (ft), 
HNdit (Pt), HNda (Pt), HNd in English (P/t)
10 advanced technological 
institute - kandy
No. 16, 
keppetipola 
mawatha, kandy.
081-2232097
081-2226644
HNdit (ft), HNda (ft), HNdm(ft), 
HNdba(ft), HNd in English (ft), 
HNdtHm (ft)
HNda (Pt),HNd in English (Pt), HNdit (Pt)
11 advanced technological 
institute - kegalle
bandaranayake 
mawatha, kegalle.
035-2221297
035-2221713
HNdit(ft), HNda(ft), HNd in English (ft), 
HNdPm(ft)
HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt), 
12 advanced technological   
institute - kurunegala
No. 22/1,   
Wilgoda Rd, 
kurunegala.
037-2229583
037-2224911
HNdit(ft), HNda(ft), HNdm(ft), HNd in 
English (ft), HNdtHm(ft)
HNdit (Pt),  HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt), 
13 advanced technological 
institute - mannar
No 201, 
Provincial English 
support centre 
(PEsc), 
thalaimannar 
Road, mannar.
023-3122555 HNd in English (ft), HNdtHm, HNdit (ft)
14 advanced technological 
institute - Nawalapitiya
No. 154/6, 
Gampola Road. 
(black street), 
aishwarya Hall, 
4
th floor, 
Nawalapitiya. 
054-2050634 HNdtHm(ft), HNdm(ft), HNd in English (ft), 
HNd in English (Pt), 
15 advanced technological 
institute - Rathnapura
New town, 
Rathnapura.
045-2231492
045-2231493
HNdit (ft), HNda (ft), HNd in English (ft),
HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt),
16 advanced technological 
institute - sammanthurai
ati avenue,
sammanthurai.
067-2261304 HNdit (ft),HNda (ft), HNd in English (ft),  
HNdm (ft), 
HNdit (Pt), HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt) 
17 advanced technological 
institute - tangalle
yayawaththa, 
Netolpitiya, 
tangalle.
0472241845
0472241846
HNdit (ft), HNda (ft), HNd in English (ft)
HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt)  

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1280
Name of ATI Address Telephone
Numbers
Courses Offered 
18 advanced technological 
institute - trincomalee
kanniya Rd,
Varothayanagar, 
trincomalee.
0262223232
0262050617
HNdit (ft), HNda (ft), HNd in English (ft), 
HNdtHm (ft)
HNda (Pt), HNdit (Pt), HNd in English 
(Pt), 
19 advanced technological 
institute - Vavuniya
off a 9 Road, 
Veppankulam, 
Ómanthai, 
Vavuniya.
0242052733 HNdit (ft) HNda (ft), HNd in English  (ft),
HNda (Pt), HNd in English (Pt) 
Note:
 1. The applicant should fulfill the required entry 
qualifications before the closing date of applications.  
 2. the minimum marks for the G.c.E. (a/L) General 
common test Paper, should be 25 for HNd full-time 
programmes.  The applicant should be qualified for 
higher education.
 3. the recruitment of eligible candidates for HNds in 
category 02 will be based on a common written test 
conducted institute wise. 
 4. Preference will be given for full-time students who are 
below 23 years. 
 5. at least 50 students should be registered in a particular 
study programme to commence the course at a 
particular ati.
 6. full-time students of all the courses should attend 
lectures during weekdays and if required, during 
weekends.
 7. Part-time courses will be conducted during weekends.
 8. mode of instruction for both of full-time and part-time 
courses will be in-class, online or both depending on 
the requirement.
 9. The first and second years of HNDA (Full-Time) 
programme are conducted only on weekdays. third 
and fourth years are conducted during weekends.
 10. The first and second years of HNDM programmes
 are 
conducted on weekdays and the third year is conducted 
on weekends.
 11. students of full-time programmes must undergo an in-
plant training of minimum six months in relevant field.
 12. Part-time applicants should be employed in a relevant 
field. 
 13. once a student has been enrolled in a full-time course, 
transferring to any other ati will not be entertained 
under any circumstances. 
 14. students who have registered for any HNd course 
would be allowed to cancel their registration before 
60 days starting from the closing date of registration 
given by the relevant institute without any charge.
 15. Rs.5, 000.00 per month will be charged since the date 
of registration from the students who are cancelling 
their registration after 60 days. (internal circular 
(Exam) 04/2019 on 12.07.2019)
 16. semester-end examinations will be held for both full-
time and part-time students during weekdays and 
weekends.
 17. Any other entry qualifications recommended by the 
academic syndicate meeting and approved by the 
Governing council will be considered.
 18. G.c.E. (a/L) and G.c.E. (o/L) Examinations must 
be administered by the department of Examinations,                  
sri Lanka.
 19. any applicants who have provided false information 
will be rejected.
 20. decision of the director General of sLiatE will be 
the final decision for the admission of students to 
advanced technological institutes for the academic 
year 2020.
 21. for more information please visit the web site: www.
sliate.ac.lk
CLOSING DATE Of APPLICATIONS 06.10.2020
Director General, Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced 
Technological Education (SLIATE)
09–348

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1281
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government 
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  To avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the supreme court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to alteration in 
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
schedule of separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.)  580 0 950 0
section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 58 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'09'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.09.2020
1282
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   month date of publication Last date and Time of
   Acceptance of notices for
             publication in the Gazette
2020
 SEPTEmbER 04.09.2020 friday — 21.08.2020 friday 12 noon
  11.09.2020 friday –– 28.08.2020 friday 12 noon
  18.09.2020 friday –– 04.09.2020 friday 12 noon
  25.09.2020 friday –– 11.09.2020 friday 12 noon
 OCTObER 02.10.2020 friday — 18.09.2020 friday 12 noon
  09.10.2020 friday –– 25.09.2020 friday 12 noon
  16.10.2020 friday –– 02.10.2020 friday 12 noon
  23.10.2020 friday –– 09.10.2020 friday 12 noon
  29.10.2020 thursday –– 16.10.2020 friday 12 noon
 NOvEmbER 06.11.2020 friday — 23.10.2020 friday 12 noon
  13.11.2020 friday –– 29.10.2020 thursday 12 noon
  20.11.2020 friday –– 06.11.2020 friday 12 noon
  27.11.2020 friday –– 13.11.2020 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2020.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNka.