

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'13
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 13.05.2016
121
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 122
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"967- 2016 uehs ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'05'13
No. 1,967 - FRIDAY ,  MAY 13,  2016
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
121
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  03rd  June, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  20th May, 2016.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2016.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note .- B. Y . Thudawe Social Welfare Foundation  (Incorporation) Bill was published as a  supplement to the  part II of the Gazette of the  
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 18, 2016. 
Note .- Part III and Part IV (A)  of the  Gazette No. 1966 of 06.05.2016 were not  Published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'13
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 13.05.2016
122
miscellaneous Lands notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/26735.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No. LC/12/GA/NA/L. t.   
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the  Purpose of Gellular Signal 
Tower Construction, Sri Lanka Telecom Mobitel Company No. 
108 W. A. D. Ramanayaka  Mawatta, Colombo 02 has requested 
on lease a state land containing in extent about  Hect 0.0506 out 
of  extent marked lot  No. A  as  depicted in the   Tracing No. GA/
NGD/07/269 situated in the village of Udugama with  belongs to 
the Grama Niladhari Division of 218 C,  Ukowitta  North  coming 
within the  area  of authority of  Nagoda   Divisional Secretariat 
in the  District of Galle. 
             
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Lot No. 1404 ;
On the East by : Lot No. 1404  ;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 1404 ;
On the West by : Lot No. 1404. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the 
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : - 
 (a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( from 23.03.2016 
to 30 Years);
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  commercial   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
for the year 2016. this amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the amount  
as  a result of the  revision will be not  more than 50% of 
the  amount  that just preceded. 
Premium  - three times of the annual rent of the  lease  ; 
 (b) the  lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 (c) the lessee must not use this land for any purposes  other 
than for  the purpose of Commercial  activities  ;
 (d)  the  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/ Scoping  committee/Board of Investment of Sri 
Lanka and  by other  Institutions;
 (e)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper 
state of repair ;
 (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
 
 (g)  No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum 
period of 05 years from 23.03.2016  ;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
NuwaNi SuduSiNghe ,
 Deputy  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura", Land Secretariat, No. 1200/6,   
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
06th May, 2016.
 
05-166 
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/30104.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: CPC/LC/LD/4/1/24/3.   
noTIfIcATIon   mADe   unDeR  STATe  LAnD  
ReGuLATIon  no. 21 (2)
It  is hereby notified that for the  Agricultural Purpose, Ms. 
Batugoda Bodhikotuwe Gedara Chandrawathi has  requested on 
lease a state land containing in extent about  P. 20  out of  extent  
marked as depicted in the tracing drawn by Grama Niladhari (Part  
of 06 in uq' ms' ud' 674)  situated in the  village of Dankan Colony 
which  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division  of  Dankan Pedesa 
coming  within the  area of authority  of Yatawaththa  Divisional 
Secretariat in the  District of Mathale.  
             
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
 
On the North by : Residential Land  of B. G. Chandrawathi  
;
On the East by : Private Land ;
On the  South by :  Lot No. 11 in  P. Plan 674 ;
On the West by : Colony Road. 
the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the 
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : - 

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'05'13
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 13.05.2016
123
 (a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( since 15.06.1995);
  The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 4% of the  undeveloped   
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer 
in  the year  1995. this amount of the lease must be 
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the amount  
as  a result of the  revision will be not less than 50% of the 
amount that just preceded. 
Penalty   - 12% of the  developed value of the  land  ; 
 (b) the lessees must not use this land for any purposes  other 
than  for the  purpose of  Agricultural purpose ;
 (c) this  lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner as to 
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
 
 
 (d)  the  lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary  and  by other  Institutions;
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure 
on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified 
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, 
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
 (f)  Permission will not be given for any other sub -  leasing  
or thransfer, other  than  the transferring  within or sub  -  
leasing or  transferring  to accomplish  the purpose of  this  
lease   Bond  until the  expiry  of 05 years from 09.04.2015;
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
 (h)  the buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper 
state of repair ;
 
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested. 
  
d. T. M. JaThilaka ,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,  Land Secretariat,"Mihikatha Medura", 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
18th April, 2016
05-211
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANkA.