

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2647
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2642
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"992 – 2016 fkdjeïn¾ ui 04 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'11'04
No. 1,992 –  fRiday ,  NoVEmbER  04, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th November, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th  November, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
15th September, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2639
Note.—  (i) Samata Sarana Sahana Sewa foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 08, 2016.
 (ii) Hand to Stand foundation (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 08, 2016.
 (iii) North Western association for Restraint of Heart disease (incorporation) bill was published as a supplement to the 
Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 22, 2016.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2640
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2641
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2642
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths in Tamil medium 
 
tRiNcomaLEE  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 05th december, 2016.
 E. m. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
12th october, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
trincomalee Kuchchavelli Post of Registrar of marriages (tamil) district Secretary/ additional
    of Kattukulam North division  Registrar General,  district
      Secretariat, trincomalee. 
11–19
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths in Tamil medium 
 
tRiNcomaLEE  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2643
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 05th december, 2016.
 E. m. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
17th october, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
trincomalee Kinniya Post of Registrar of birth and deaths district Secretary/ additional
    (tamil) of Kurunchankerney division  Registrar General,  district
      Secretariat, trincomalee. 
11–185
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths  
 
batticaLoa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2644
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as district Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 05th december, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
14th october, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
batticaloa Koralaipattu, Post of Registrar of births and deaths of the district Secretary/ the addl.
 Valaichenai  Valaichenai division and marriages  Registrar General,  district
   (General) of Eravur Koralaipattu    Secretariat, batticaloa. 
   division (t amil medium)
11–187
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and Deaths  
 
tRiNcomaLEE  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of marriages, births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2645
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 05th december, 2016.
 E. m. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
trincomalee morawewa Post of Registrar of birth and deaths district Secretary/ additional
    of morawewa North division and   Registrar General,  district
   marriages (Kandyan and General) of   Secretariat, trincomalee. 
   Kattukulam Pattu West division.
11–186
–––––––––––––––––––
DEPARTmENT Of SPORTS DEVELOPmENT 
Recruitment to Post of Warden (male/female)
aPPLicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka 
for recruitment to posts of Warden (male/female) to 
fill the existing vacancies in the Department of Sports 
development. 
01. Educational and Other Qualifications :
 1.1 Education Qualifications : 
 1.1.1 Should have passed General Certificate 
of Education Exam (ordinary Level) in 
six (06) subjects with credit passes to 
Sinhala/tamil/English language and two 
other subjects in one sitting. 
 1.1.2 Should have passed at least one subject 
in the General Certificate of Educations 
Exam (advanced Level) (other than the 
General common test)
 1.2 Professional Qualifications.– Professional 
experience gained in relevant field will be 
treated as special qualification. 
 1.3 experience.– 02 years' experience as an 
assistant Superintendent of a student hostel/
assistant Warden or in a Similar Government 
or affiliated hostel/institution.
 1.4 Physical Qualifications .– Every candidate 
should be physically and mentally fit to 
discharge the duties of the post, in any area of 
the island. 
 1.5 Other Qualifications : 
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) Should be of excellent moral character,
 (iii) Should satisfy all qualifications required 
for the post as at 01.07.2016.
 1.6 candidates should possess an excellent moral 
character.
02. Salary Scale.– according to Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 with effect from 01.01.2020                   
(Rs. 27,140 - 10x300 - 11x350 - 10x495 - 10x660 - Rs. 45,540)
03. General Conditions : 
 3.1 Age limit.– Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years as at 01.07.2016. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2646
 3.2 Mode of Recruitment : 
 3.2.1 Qualifying persons will be selected 
through a structured interview by a 
board of interview duly established 
subject to all other conditions laid down 
in Public administration circular No. 
15/90 according to this notification. 
 3.2.2 conditions of Employment.– this post is 
permanent and pensionable and subject 
to policy decisions that may be taken by 
the government form time to time. 
 3.2.3 Sections from 10 to 12 of chapter ii of 
the Establishment code apply. 
 3.2.4 applications prepared according to 
the specimen format appearing at 
the end if this notice shold be sent to 
reach director General, department 
of Sports development, No. 09, Philip 
Gunawardhane mawatha, colombo 07 
on or before 22.11.2016.
 3.2.5 the top left hand corner of the envelope 
should bear the legend "Warden (male)/
Warden (female) 2016" applications shall 
be duly perfected in all respects. delayed 
applications will be rejected without 
notifying and complaints regarding loss 
of applications or related documents in 
transist will not be entertained. applicants 
are advised to send in their applications in 
time but not on time to avoid any loss or 
damage that may occur to them receipts of 
applications will not be acknowledged. 
 3.2.6 Willful suppression of any fact or 
information by the candidate or in the 
event he/she is found to be unqualified 
during the course of his/her service at any 
time will result in his/her being dismissed 
from service. 
 S. E. R. t. m. S. P. 
Bandara, 
 director General, 
 department of Sports development.
No. 09, 
Philip Gunawardhana mawatha, 
colombo 07,
20th october, 2016. 
SPEcimEN foRm 
department of sports development
applica tion for post of w arden (male)/w arden (female)
01.  (i) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
02.  (i) Private address :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Sex :––––––––––––.
03.  National identity card No. :––––––––––––.
04.  date of birth :
 date :–––––––––. month :–––––––––. year :–––––––––.
05. age as at 01.07.2016 :
 y ears :––––––––. months :––––––––. days :––––––––.
06.  (a) Educational Qualifications : 
   G. c. E. (o/L) year :––––––––––––.
  Subject Result
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
   G. c. E. (a/L) year :––––––––––––.
  Subject Result
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ............................................ ...........................
  ( b) Professional qualifications (NVQ Level) :––––––––.
  ( c) Experience in the relevant field (not less than 2 
years) :––––––––––––.
   The above qualifications should have been fulfilled 
by 01.07.2016 certified photocopies of relevant 
certificates should be submitted along with the 
application in proof of qualifications.
07. telephone Number :
 fixed :––––––––––––.
 mobile :––––––––––––.
08. Have you ever been convicted by a court of Law ?          
yes/No  (if "yes" specify) :––––––––––––.
09. applicant's declaration : 
 i hereby certify that the information provided by me 
in this application is true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. 
10. i am aware that in the event of any information provided 
by me in this application is found to be false subsequnet to 
my appointment to this post I am liable to be disqualified 
and dismissed. 
    ––––––––––––––,
    applicant's Signature.
date :––––––––––––.
11–260
 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2647
PubLIC  SERVICE  COmmISSION
Open/Limited – Competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka 
Accountants’Service–2016
iN this notice “Service” means the Sri Lanka accountants’ 
Service (S.L.ac.S.)
1. Date of examination.– Examination will be held 
in february, 2017 in colombo and in Jaffna by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. the Public 
Service commission reserves the right to postpone/cancel 
the Examination.
2. Number of vacancies to be filled through this 
examination is as follows.
 open      - 116
 Limited  - 82
3. Method of Recruitment.–  candidates who have 
scored 40% of marks or above in each subject at the 
written examination shall be called for the interview in 
order of merit of the aggregate marks and the selection 
for appointment will be made by the board of interview 
appointed by the Public Service commission on perusal of 
their qualifications.
 3.1  Number of persons to be appointed to the said 
post and the effective date of appointment to be 
determined by the order of the Public Service 
commission.the Public Service commission has 
authority to fill any number of vacancies or all the 
vacancies.
4. Qualifications:-
 4.1  open competitive Examination :
     (a)  Educational Qualifications :
 (i) Should possess a degree in commerce, 
management, accountancy or Economics 
from a University recognized by the 
University Grants commission ;
  or
 (ii) Should be a holder of a Higher diploma 
in accountancy or commerce from the 
Sri Lanka technical college or Sri Lanka 
institute of Higher technical Education;
  or
 (iii) Should have passed the intermediate or 
Licentiate or Higher Examination of the  
institute of chartered accountants of Sri 
Lanka or an institute of chartered accountants 
in any other commonwealth country; 
  or
 (iv) Should have passed the Parts i and ii of costs 
and management Examination or Higher 
Examination conducted by the chartered 
institute of management accountants 
of the United Kingdom or in any other 
commonwealth country;
  or
 (v) Should have passed the first Professional 
Level or Higher Level Examination of the 
Institute of Certified Accountants of the 
United Kingdom or any other commonwealth 
country;
  or
 (vi) Should have passed parts i and ii Examination 
or higher Level Examination of association 
of Chartered Certified Accountants of United 
Kingdom or in any other commonwealth 
country;
  or
 (vii) final Examination of the institute of 
chartered Secretaries and managers of the 
United Kingdom.
 (b) Physical Fitness.– all candidates should be 
physical fit in all aspects to serve in any part of 
Sri Lanka.
 (c)  Other qualifications :
 (i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (ii) Should be of excellent  moral character 
 (iii) No candidate will be permitted to sit for the 
open competitive Examinati on held for 
the recruitment to Sri Lanka accountants’ 
Service more than two occasions.
 (iv) a  person holding priesthood in any of the 
religious sects will be ineligible to sit this 
examination.
 (v) A person will be deemed as qualified 
to sit the competitive Examination for  
appointment to the service, if  the candidate 
has fulfilled necessary qualification in Para 
4.1 (a) in all respect as at 04th November 
2016 (on the date of publication of Gazette 
notification) 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2648
 (d) Age.– candidate should not less 22 years and 
not more than 28 years as at   04 th November 
2016 (on the date of  publication of the 
Gazette notification). Accordingly, the 
candidate shall meet the qualifications only 
if his/her birthday falls on or before 04
th 
November 1994 or on or after 04 th November 
1988.
 4.2 Limited competitive Examination :
      (a)  Qualifications for Experience :
 (i) Possession of any of the qualifications set 
out in Para 4.1 (a) above with not less than 5 
years of satisfactory, uninterrupted permanent 
service in the public service or in the 
provincial public service on 04
th November 
2016 (the date of publication of the Gazette 
notification calling for applications) having 
earned a minimum of 5 increments on the due 
date.
  or
 (ii) Possession of not less than 10 years 
satisfactory period of service in the public 
service or in the provincial public service in a 
permanent and pensionable post which carries 
the salary scale of mN 1- 2006 (a) or above 
having earned a minimum of 10  increment on 
the due date.
 
 (b) Physical Fitness.– all candidates must be 
physically fit all aspects to serve in any part of 
Sri Lanka.
  
  (c) Other qualifications :-
 (i)  candidates must be of excellent moral 
character.
 (ii)  Should have earned all the increments on 
due dates during the immediately preceding 
five years of the date of gaining eligibility’
 (iii)  Possession of five years satisfactory service 
during the immediately preceding five years 
on 04
th November, 2016 (on the date of 
publication of the Gazette notification)
 (iv)  No person is entitled to sit the Limited 
competitive Examination for recruitment to 
Sri Lanka accountants’ Service more than 
twice.
 (v)  any person holding priesthood in any of the 
religious sects will be ineligible to sit this 
examination 
 (vi) A person will be deemed as qualified  
to sit the competitive examination for 
appointment to service, if the candidate has 
fulfilled necessary qualifications in Para 4.2 
(a) in all respects  as at 04
th November, 2016 
(on the date of Publication of the Gazette 
notification) 
5.Conditions of Service. – a selected candidate will be 
appointed to the Grade iii of Sri Lanka   accountants’ 
Service subject to general conditions of governing 
appointment of the Public Service, conditions prescribed 
in the minute of the Sri Lanka accountants Service 
published in the Extraordinary Gazette of democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1670/33 dated 10 th of 
September, 2010 and the amendments made thereto or to 
be made hereafter.
 (a) the Post is permanent. you are subjected to the 
policy decisions taken by the government on the 
pension entitlement in the future.
 (b) The officers who are appointed shall pass the 
First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers 
of the Sri Lanka accountant’s Services within 
03 years from the date of appointment.
 (c) The officers shall prove that they have acquired 
the proficiency in official language within 5 
years in terms of the Public administration 
circular 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and circulars 
incidental thereto.
6.  Structure and Monthly Salary Scales:- SL 1-2016- 
Rs. 47,615 -10X1,335- 8X1,630 – 17X2,170 – Rs. 110,895. 
(Salaries shall be paid as mentioned in Schedule ii in line 
with the provisions in Public administration circular        
No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016)
7.  examination Fee.– the fee for the open competitive 
Examination is Rs. 1,000. the fee for the Limited 
competitive Examination is Rs. 1,000. if a candidate applies 
for both Examinations the total fee is Rs. 1,500. this fee 
should be paid before closing date of applications at any of 
the Post/ Sub Post office in the island in order to credit to the 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations. the receipt issued from the Post Office 
should be pasted to the relevant cage in the application 
form. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
with the applicants. the fee is nonrefundable. further, no 
stamps or vouchers are accepted as the examination fees. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2649
8.  Method of Application:-
 (a) the applications should be prepared strictly in 
accordance with the specimen form annexed 
to this notification; using both sides of a paper 
size A4 and should be filled by the candidate 
himself.
 (b) item No.  01 to 03 of the application should 
be on the first page. The application should 
be in the Language in which the candidate is 
eligible to sit the examination. the name of 
the examination should be written in English 
in both Sinhala and tamil applications. 
applications which are not complying to the 
prescribed specimen application form and 
incomplete shall be rejected without notice. the 
loss cause by not completing the application 
shall be borne by the applicants themselves. it 
is advisable to keep a copy of the application 
and the applicant should make sure to prepare 
the application in line with the specimen form 
in the notification of examination. Unless, the 
application may be rejected. 
 (c) the applications for the open competitive 
Examination must be sent by Registered 
Post to reach the commissioner General 
of Examinations, organization and foreign 
Examination branch, P. o. box 1503 
department of Examinations of Sri Lanka on 
or before 05
th december 2016. the envelope 
containing the application should clearly 
written “open competitive Examination/
accountants” on the top left hand corner. No 
application received after that date will be 
accepted.
Note.- applicants who are already in Public 
Service/Provincial Public Service/State 
corporations should forward their applications 
through their Head of departments/institutions.
 (d) the applications for the Limited competitive 
Examination must be forwarded through 
the Head of  department  to reach the 
commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examination 
branch, P.o. box 1503, department of 
Examinations Sri Lanka on or before 05th 
december 2016. the envelope containing the 
application should be clearly written “Limited 
competitive Examinations/accountants” 
on the top left hand corner. No application 
received after that date will be accepted.
  if a candidate is sitting for both examinations 
the envelope should be written “open/Limited 
competitive Examinations /accountants.” :
 (a) the post and the working place of the 
applicants at the time of applying for the 
examination are related to all matters 
pertaining to the examination and any 
change in that respect will not be considered 
thereafter,
 
 (b) a  press notice to that effect will be published 
in the newspapers by the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka as soon as the 
admission cards are dispatched to the 
respective candidates. if admission card is 
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
an advertisement steps should be taken to 
notify the department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. It 
would be advisable to keep the  following in 
hand at the time of calling  the department 
of Examinations ; i.e. a certified photocopy 
of the application form and the receipt at 
your possession, receipt of registration and 
in case of applicants outside colombo, 
letter of request furnishing a fax number  to 
which admission cards should be sent.        
9.  Admission to the examination :-
 (a) the commissioner-General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to every person 
who has sent a perfected application on the 
assumption that applications have been sent by 
those who have completed the qualifications 
mentioned in the Gazette. a  candidate 
presenting himself for the examination must 
produce his admission card with signature 
certified, to the Supervisor of the Examination 
centre. a candidate, who fails to produce his 
admission card, will not be permitted to sit 
the Examination.
 (b) the candidate must sit the Examination at 
the Examination Hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate should hand over their admission 
card of the relevant examination hall to the 
Supervisor of the Examination centre on the 
first day presenting himself for the examination 
at the hall. a set of rules to be observed by all 
candidates are published in the Gazette.
 (c)  the issuance of an admission card to a 
candidate does not necessarily mean that he 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2650
or she has the requisite qualifications to sit the 
examination.
 (d) all candidates are bound to abide by the rules 
laid down by the commissioner-General of 
Examinations.  a candidate who violates any 
of those rules is liable to punishment at the 
discretion of the commissioner-General of 
Examinations.
10. Identification of a Candidate.– a candidate will 
be required to prove his identity  at the Examination Hall 
to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of the Examination 
centre for each subject he offers. for this purpose one  of 
the following documents will be accepted :
 (a) a  National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons;
 (b) a  valid passport issued by the department of 
immigration and Emigration.
  No office Identity Card will be accepted.
11.  Furnishing False Information.– if a candidate is 
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled 
at any stage prior to, during or after the examination. if any 
of the particulars furnished by candidate is found incorrect 
and has been done so within the knowledge of him or if he 
has willfully suppressed a material fact, he will be liable to 
dismissal from the Public Service.
12. any matter not provided in these regulations will be 
dealt with as determined by the Public Service commission.
13.  Scheme of examination:-
  (i)  Language of Examination:
 (a) the Examination will be held in Sinhala, 
tamil and English.
 (b) a  candidate can sit for the examination in 
the language he/she passed the examination 
from which he/she became qualified or in 
official language.
 (c) if any candidate has passed the subjects of 
the examination from which he/she became 
qualified, in two or more languages, he/she 
shall sit for the examination in the language 
he/she passed most of the subjects.
 (d) if any candidate who holds a special degree in 
which he/she passed the main subject in one 
language and additional subject in another 
language, shall sit for the examination in the 
language he/she passed the main subject.
Note :- 
 (i) “examination from which he/she became 
qualified” mentioned in (a), (b) and (c) 
means the examinations indicated in para. 
4.1 (a)
 (ii) a  candidate must sit all the papers of 
examination in one and the same language.
 (iii)  a candidate will not be permitted to change 
the medium of the examination given in his 
application.
14.  Method of Testing :-
 (a) a  written examination consisting of  the 
following subjects : all the question papers 
consist compulsory questions and the candidates 
should answer all the questions :
 (i) financial accounting Paper i  
  - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (ii) financial accounting Paper ii  
  - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (iii) cost and management accounting  
  - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (iv) auditing and investigations   
  - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (v) General intelligence and comprehension                  
    - 3 hours – 100 marks
 (vi) Public finance management   
  - 3 hours – 100 marks
  Syllabus is given in at the end of this notice.
 (b)  Interview .– only candidates who secured a 
minimum of 40% marks in each subject at the 
written examination will be summoned for the 
interview. the number of candidates to be called 
for the interview will be determined by the Public 
Service commission in order of merit of the 
marks obtained by the candidates at the written 
examination and according to the number of 
existing vacancies as the case may be. Results 
of the written examination will be sent to all 
candidates by the commissioner General of 
department of Examination on instructions of the 
Public Service commission.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2651
15. in the event of any inconsistency between the notice 
published in Sinhala, tamil and English languages, the 
notice published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
16.  Method of Selection for Appointment.– candidates 
who have scored higher marks in order of the merit at 
the Open and Limited Examinations and duly filled basic 
qualifications at the interview will be selected.  Marks will 
not be given for interview.   in the event of candidate having 
tied for a place, the final decision on the selection for such 
a place will be made by the Public Service commission.
by order of the Public Service commission,
 J. J. 
rathnasiri,
 Secretary,
 (ministry of Public   
 administration and  management)
ministry of Public administration and management,
colombo 07,
26th october, 2016.
PUbLic SERVicE commiSSioN
open/limited competitive examination for 
recruitment to grade iii of the sri lanka 
accountants’  service – 2016
index No. : 
(For official use only)
town in which the applicant sits for  t own No.
the examination 
indicate the town Number in which the applicant sit for 
the examination and the number of the same.
(colombo 1, Jaffna 2)
medium of the Examination : 
Sinhala 2, tamil 3, English 4
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
changing of given medium is not permitted
indicate whether the candidate applies for open/Limited 
Examination or both 
Limited - 1  open  - 2  both - 3
(Please write relevant number in the cage)
* it is not allowed to change the examination applied for, 
  at a later occasion
1.0  Name: 
  1.1.  full Name (in English block Letters) :–––––––.
   (ex. HERatH mUdiyaNSELaGE SamaN  
   KUmaRa GUNaWaRdHaNa)
  1.2 Name with initials at the end (in English block  
  capitals) :––––––––––.
   (ex.: GUNa WaRdHaNa, H.m.S.K.)
  1.3 full Name:––––––––––. 
   (in Sinhala/tamil)  
  1.4 National identity card No. :
2.0 Permanent address :––––––––––.
 (in capital letters)  
 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil) 
 2.2 Official address :––––––––––.
  (in English capital letters)  
 2.3 Official address :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)  
 2.4 address to which the admission card should be 
sent:(in English capital Letters) :––––––––––.
  (Officer in Public Service/Provincial Public 
Service/Corporations should mention his official 
address and any subsequent change should be 
notified immediately.)
3.0  3.1 Sex :   
   female - 1,     male - 2  
   (Please write relevant number)   
 
  3.2 marital Status: 
   married -1 Single - 2  
   (Please write relevant number)   
   
  3.3 date of birth : 
   y ear   month   date   
 
  3.4 age as at 04
thNovember2016 :
   y ears: months: days:
4.0  (To be filled by candidates for the Open Competitive 
Examination) Please State.
 4.1  The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit this 
Examination under Para 4.1 :––––––––––.
 4.2 The Institutions from which such qualification 
has been obtained :––––––––––. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2652
5.0 (To be filled by candidates for the Limited Competitive 
Examination) Please State.
 5.1 The qualification obtained to be eligible to sit 
this Examination under Para 4.2 :–––––––––.
 5.2  The Institutions from which such qualification 
has been obtained :–––––––––.
 (a)
 Department Post From           To Period
 (b) (i) Service/Post :–––––––––.
  (ii)  class  : from                        to
  (iii) class  : from                        to
  (iv) total Service period under the Government 
as at 04
th November 2016.(on the date of 
publication of Gazette Notification) :
   y ears  :–––––––––. months :–––––––––.
    (a) Service in  ii above :  
     y ears :–––––––––. months :–––––––––.
                (b) Service in  iii above :
     y ears :–––––––––. months :–––––––––.
  (v) annual Salary as at 04th November 2016 (on the 
date of publication of Gazette Notification)
6.0 6.1 the years in which you have sat the Limited 
competitive Examination for recruitment to the 
Sri Lanka accountants’ Service.
  y ears: 
    1. .......................  
                       2..........................
                             3..........................
 6.2 the years in which you have sat the open  
competitive Examination for recruitment to the 
Sri Lanka accountants’ Service.
  y ears: 
    1. .......................
    2. .......................
    3. .......................
7.0 the cash receipt should be pasted to the application 
firmly :
To affix the receipt of the examination fees 
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
 (i) amount Paid : .Rs. :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Place of amount paid :–––––––––––. 
 (iii) Receipt No.  :–––––––––––.
 (iv) date of payment :–––––––––––.
8.0  Certificate by Candidate :
 8.1 i declare that to the best of my knowledge 
and belief, the information given in this form 
is true and that I have affixed receipt No….. 
dated …………….. being payment of the 
Examination fee. i also agree to be bound 
by the rules governing the examination and 
any decision that may be taken to cancel 
my candidature prior to during or after the 
examination if it is found that i am ineligible 
according to the regulations of the examination.
further, i declare that i shall be bound by 
the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations with 
regard to issuance of the results. 
 8.2 I declare that during the five years preceding  
04
th November 2016 (on the date of  publication 
of Gazette Notification) I have earned all the 
increment (excluding those conditional to 
passing service or departmental examination) 
and that i have not been subject to any form of 
disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) 
for any offence committed during the immediate 
proceeding five  years.       
      ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :––––––––––––.
9.0 9.1 Certificate of the Head of Department:(To be 
filled by candidates for the Open Competitive 
Examination only where relevant and by 
all candidates for the Limited competitive 
Examination) the Head of institution in which 
the applicant personal file  is been maintained, 
should sign as the Head of the institution.
  i  hereby certify that the candidate named 
………….…….has been serving in this office 
since …….. and  his/her  work and conduct has 
been satisfactory and i have checked all the 
particulars mentioned in Para 6 above with the 
records available in the office and found that they 
are correct and He/ She has paid  the prescribed 
examination fee and affixed the relevant receipt 
herein  and that she/he has signed  in  my  
presence on …………. 2016. 
  
   –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department.
date :–––––––––.
attester’s full Name :–––––––––.
Post :–––––––––.
address :–––––––––.
(Should be supported by a Rubber Stamp)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2653
 9.2 attestation  (To be filled by candidates for the 
open competitive Examination only where 
relevant.)
  i do  hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss   ………
who forwards this application  is known to me 
personally and placed his/her signature in  my  
presence on this ……..day of …………… and 
that he/she has paid the relevant examination fee 
and affixed the receipt obtained thus. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester and Seal.
attester’s full Name :––––––––––––.
Post :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
Note :the signature of the applicant should be attested 
in the application and also in the admission card. an 
applicant who is forwarding the application through 
any institution should get his/her signature attested 
by the Head of the Institution or by any other officer 
authorized by him and other applicants should get 
their signature attested by a Head of a Government 
School, Grama Nladhari of the relevant division, 
a Justice of the Peace, commissioner of oaths, 
attorney-at-Law, Notary Public or Government 
Servant drawing an annual consolidated salary not 
less than Rs. 240,360.
Appendix I
Particulars regarding open/Limited competitive Examinations conducted for appointment to the Sri Lanka 
accountants Service.
the examination will consist of the following examination papers.
No. Subjects Maximum Marks Pass Marks Time
1 financial accountancy -i 100 40 03 hours
2 financial accountancy -ii 100 40 03 hours
3 cost and management accountancy 100 40 03 hours
4 auditing and investigation 100 40 03 hours
5 General intelligence and 
comprehension
100 40 03 hours
6 Public financial management 100 40 03 hours
Syllabus:
Subject No. 01 and 02  - financial Accountancy I and II
Purpose of financial accountancy and users of accounts and information required by them.
accounting Principles:
accounting Equation, double Entry book keeping and accounting Systems, Prime Entry books and Ledgers. 
trial balance, accumulated pre-payments and adjustments, capital Expenditure and income, depreciations, Suspense 
accounts, correction of Errors, control accounts, Reconciliation Statements, incomplete records.
final accounts :
Manufacturing Accounts, Trading Profit and Loss Accounts, Balance Sheet, Fund Flow  Statement and 
appropriation account.
accounting for Partnerships:
Partnership agreements, book keeping for partnerships, fixed capital accounts, current accounts, accounting 
for debts, drawing accounts, Preparation of final accounts for Partnerships, changes in the composition of a Partnership, 
treatment of goodwill and action on other assets and liabilities in admission of partners and dissolution of partnerships, 
Joint ventures.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2654
accounting for Limited liability companies:
Nature of Limited liability companies, Public listed 
companies and Share market/share and loan capital, 
Distributable profits, Final Accounts for internal 
and external use, Defining Statements of Accounts, 
Interpretation of financial statements, Accounting ratios.
accounting for Specialized transactions:
Societies and associations, consignments, branches, 
hire purchase and credit sale, Leasing, investments, bill  
of exchange, long-term contracts, royalties, container 
accounts, foreign currency transactions.
application of computers for accounting:
types of computer/Hardware and software, computer 
operating  Software, Electronic Spreadsheets, computer 
based accounting.
Subject No. 03 – Cost and management Accounting
cost accounting, financial accounting and 
management accounting, Purpose of cost accounting. 
accounting as a management aid.
material cost:
Purchasing procedures, Store Routines, methods of 
valuing material issues, incentive allowances, and  bonuses.
Labour cost:
time keeping, time allocations, methods of 
remuneration, payment of incentive allowances and 
bonuses, accounting for salaries and wages.
overhead costs:
 allocation and apportionment of costs, absorption 
methods, overhead administration & distribution, Selling  
and  distributions.
integrated and non-integrated accounts.
cost control account, reconciliation of costs and 
financial accounts, integral accounts.
methods of costing:
contract costing, Job costing, departmental costing, 
batch costing, Process costing, Unit costing, Services 
Costing, unrealized profits under different methods of 
costing.
marginal costing:
contributions/Sales, break-even charts, application of 
marginal costing, accounting entries in marginal costing.
Standard costing:
Standard costs, actual costs, basic variances, 
accounting procedures.
budgetary control:
Functional budgets, master budgets, flexible budgetary 
control, continuous budgeting, operation of budgetary 
control.
Subject No. 4. Auditing and Investigation
the nature and objectives of auditing  -  the role of the 
auditor
internal audit, external audit, statutory – in relation to 
the Government departments, ministries and corporations 
Under the constitution of Sri Lanka and finance act,                  
No. 38 of 1971 relating to Non-statutory-under companies 
act, No. 17 of 1982 – auditing Standards, auditing 
opinions, auditing concepts, independence and other  
personal qualities of auditor, Evidence, truthfulness 
and fairness, materialism, audit Risk, auditors 
Responsibilities, Responsibilities of person subjected to 
auditing.
Scope and Limitations
determining the Scope, assumptions and limitations, 
Role of auditing standards and Guidelines.
the role of engagement letters, management letters 
and representation  letters, basic auditing  methods and 
Evaluation of internal control procedures.
Quantity charts, Questionnaires
audit Planning and control
Audit Planning, timing, interim and final audits, 
assignment of responsibilities for functions, audit control, 
Recording the work done including the use of internal 
control, prepared questionnaires and forms for evaluation 
of internal control.
Values, Concepts and Characteristics for financial 
auditing.
its relevance to the Public Sector, analytical auditing.
auditing  of computerized accounting Systems – 
auditing Limited companies
Statutory books, powers and duties of directors, 
Divisional profits, Appointment of auditors, wages and 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2655
removals. action to be taken before accepting new 
auditors, Powers  and duties of auditors.
Nature and  extent of inspections.
compliance inspections, independent inspections, 
Sample techniques, Balance sheet verifications, Verification 
of income and expenditure accounts.
Professional responsibilities of auditors and 
accountants
Professional conduct and ethics legal rights and 
responsibilities, Legal responsibility of accountant and 
auditor and Law relating to the subject of knowledge on 
incidents.
investigations:
Planning the scope of investigations, techniques 
and procedures to be used, Examples of intention for 
conducting investigations, feasibility studies Evaluation 
of business institutions for the purchase, Sale, credit rating 
etc., accountant’s and auditor’s reports for prospectus, 
Reporting activities, fraud investigations, Project 
evaluations.
Reporting functions
Reporting to the management about the weaknesses in 
the internal control systems, special reporting functions 
relating to Government and corporation audits, Reports for 
the prospectus, Reports on investigations.
Subject No. 5 – General Intelligence and 
Comprehension
Part  ‘a’
Questions will be asked from candidates based on 
a passage given  in the comprehension question paper. 
another passage is given and the candidates have to 
summarize it to one third of  the original number of words 
giving its prime meaning.
Subject No. 4 - Public financial management
Legal framework of Public finance
the consolidated fund, Special Law Expenditure, 
contingencies fund, Public debt. foreign  aid, fiscal 
measures.
the Role of the Parliament, the minister of finance, 
the treasury, the auditor General, Public accounts 
committee, committee on Public Enterprises, the chief 
accounting officer, Department of national Planning 
monetary board.
the annual appropriation bill.
budgetary System and Procedures, annual estimates of 
Revenue and Expenditure.
budget implementation
organizational Structure for the implementation of the 
budget, Revenue collection procedures, imprest for making 
payments, Supervision of financial operations, Delegation 
of functions, Virement procedure, supplementary estimates, 
budgetary control, Procurement Procedure.
Government accounting Systems and Procedures
custody, security and control of government properties, 
accounting for revenue and other receipts, accounting for 
foreign aid, accounting for losses, waivers and write-offs.
Review
flash reports summary of monthly accounts, Review 
of financial and physical performance, the annual 
appropriation account, the auditor General’s  report on 
the island’s accounts, the report of the Public accounts 
committee, the report of the committee on Public 
Enterprises.
Note:- 
 (i) t erm a qualifying examination in (b) and (c) 
above refers to any of the examination referred 
to in para 4.
 (ii) a  candidate must sit all the papers of examination 
on one and the same language
 (iii) a  candidate will not be permitted to change 
the medium of the examination given in his 
application.
 (a) a  candidate should sit the examination in the 
language in which he passed the qualifying  
examination or in the official language
 (b) a  candidate who has passed subjects at the 
qualifying examination on more than on 
language should sit the examination in the 
language on which he passed the majority 
of subjects at such examination or in the 
official language.
 (c) a  candidate with a special degree who has 
passed the principal subject in one language 
and the subsidiary subject in another 
language should sit the examination in 
which he passed the principal subject or in 
the official language.
11-515

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2656
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIVE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIVE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'11'04
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.11.2016
2657
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 NOVEmbER 04.11.2016 friday — 21.10.2016 friday 12 noon
  11.11.2016 friday –– 28.10.2016 friday 12 noon
  18.11.2016 friday –– 04.11.2016 friday 12 noon
  25.11.2016 friday –– 11.11.2016 friday 12 noon
 DECEmbER 02.12.2016 friday — 18.11.2016 friday 12 noon
  09.12.2016 friday –– 25.11.2016 friday 12 noon
  16.12.2016 friday –– 02.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  23.12.2016 friday –– 09.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  30.12.2016 friday –– 16.12.2016 friday 12 noon
2017
 JANuAR y 06.01.2017 friday — 23.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  13.01.2017 friday –– 30.12.2016 friday 12 noon
  20.01.2017 friday –– 06.01.2017 friday 12 noon
  27.01.2017 friday –– 13.01.2017 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
15th September, 2016.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.