

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2119$3 - 2019 wfm%a,a ui 17 jeks nodod - 2019'04'17
No. 2119/3  -  WEDNESDAY  APRIL  17,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B. 11/80(29)
FOOD  ACT,   No.  26  OF  1980
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, under Section 32 of the Food Act,
No. 26 of 1980, in consultation with the Food Advisory Committee.
DR. R AJITHA S ENARA THNA,
Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine.
Colombo,
16th April, 2019.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the Food (Colour Coding for Sugar, Salt and Fat) Regulations 2019 and shall come
into operation on 1st of June 2019.
2. (1) No person shall package, sell, expose for sale, or advertise any solid or semi-solid food which contains
(a) an amount of sugar specified in Part A of the Schedule I hereto ; or
(b) an amount of salt specified in Part B of the Schedule I hereto ; or
(c) an amount of fat specified in Part C of the Schedule I hereto,
unless such food is labeled in the manner as specified in these regulations.
1A -  PG  4488 — 3017 (04/2019)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.04.2019
2A
(2) Where any solid or semi-solid food has to be prepared or reconstituted before consumption as per the directions
specified in the label of the container of such solid or semi-solid food and such food upon being so prepared or reconstituted
is still in solid or semi-solid state contains an amount of sugar, salt or fat specified in Schedule I hereto-
(a) in the case of locally manufactured solid or semi-solid food, the container of such food shall be labeled
in the manner as specified in these regulations as applicable ;
(b) in the case of solid or semi-solid food which has been imported, a label made in accordance with these
regulations shall be affixed to the container of such food.
3. Where any solid or semi-solid food contains the amount of sugar specifed in Column I of Part A of Schedule
I hereto, the container or the package which contains such food shall have a logo which shall adhere to the following :-
(a) the height and the width of the logo as illustrated in Column III of Part A of Schedule I hereto shall not
be less than 2 cm and 1 cm respectively ;
(b) the word “sugar”, shall be displayed within the logo in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages respectively
in bold white and shall be of minimum 2 mm font size, as illustrated in Column III of Part A of Schedule
I hereto ;
(c) a numeric description of the sugar content in such food shall be within a white box as illustrated in
Column III of Part A of Schedule I hereto and shall be of minimum 1.5 mm font size in bold black ; and
(d) the colour code of the logo shall be as specified in Column II of Part A of Schedule I hereto.
4. Where any solid or semi solid food contains the amount of salt specified in Column I of Part B of Schedule I
hereto, the container or the package which contains such food shall have a logo which shall adhere to the following :-
(a) the height and the width of the logo as illustrated in Column III of Part B of Schedule I hereto shall not
be less than 2 cm and 1 cm respectively ;
(b) the word “salt”, shall be displayed within the logo in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages respectively in
bold white and shall be of minimum 2 mm font size, as illustrated in Column III of Part B of Schedule I
hereto ;
(c) a numeric description of the salt content in such food shall be within a white box as illustrated in Column
III of Part B of Schedule I hereto and shall be of minimum 1.5 mm font size in bold black ; and
(d) the colour code of the logo shall be as specified in Column II of Part B of Schedule I hereto.
5. Where any solid or semi solid food contains the amount of fat specified in Column I of Part C of Schedule I
hereto, the container or the package which contains such food shall have a logo which shall adhere to the following :-
(a) the height and the width of the logo as illustrated in Column III of Part C of Schedule I hereto shall not
be less than 2 cm and 1 cm respectively ;
(b) the word “fat”, shall be displayed within the logo in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages respectively in
bold white and shall be of minimum 2 mm font size, as illustrated in Column III of Part C of Schedule I
hereto ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.04.2019
3A
(c) a numeric description of the fat content in such food shall be within a white box as illustrated in Column III
of Part C of Schedule I hereto and shall be of minimum 1.5 mm font size in bold black ; and
(d) the colour code of the logo shall be as specified in Column II of Part C of Schedule I hereto.
6. The logos shall be displayed in the main panel of the label of the container or package which contains such
food in close proximity to each other as shown in Schedule II hereto :
Provided however, where the relevant logos cover more than 25% of surface area of the main panel of the
container or package of such food, such logos shall be displayed in the dispenser pack.
7. The provisions of these regulations shall not apply to :-
(a) any primary agricultural product ;
(b) spices, condiments, curry mixtures or flavoring mixtures sold in separate pack ;
(c) any food for special dietary uses or where the label prominently displays that it is to be used under
medical guidance or on the recommendation of a Medical Practitioner ;
(d) any package of food where the food is of the nature, quality, quantity, origin or brand requested by the
purchaser and is weighed, counted or measured in the presence of the purchaser ;
(e) bulk packs, where the retail packs contained therein complies with these regulations ;
(f) infant milk formulae ;
(g) Products packaged solely for export purpose only ;
(h) any solid or semi-solid food upon preparation or reconstitution as per directions of the label of the
container of such food where such food becomes a liquid at consumption level ; or
(i) any solid or semi-solid food manufactured before, the date on which these regulations come into operation.
8. In these regulations, unless the contex otherwise requires :-
“amber” means R255, G195 and B9 in Red, Green, Blue colour system (RGB) or equivalent ;
“fat” means total fatty acid, in the form of triglycerides ;
“green” means G195 in Red, Green, Blue colour system (RGB) or equivalent ;
“main panel” that also known as “front of pack” means the part of the lable which is most likely to be displayed,
presented, shown or examined under customery conditions of display for retail sale ;
“primary agricultural products” includes cereals, pulses, vegetables, roots and tubers, fruits, salt, sugar, meat,
fish ;
“red” means R230 in Red, Green, Blue colour system (RGB) or equivalent ;
“salt” means total salt contained in food, in the form of Sodium Chloride (NaCl) ; and
“sugar” means total sugar contained in food, in the form of monosaccharides and disaccharides ;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.04.2019
4A
SCHEDULE  I
(Reference to regulations 2, 3, 4, and 5)
PART  A
Total Sugar contains in Solid or Semi-solid Food
Column I Column II Column III
Sugar content Colour code of the Logo
(per 100g) Logo
More than 22g Red
Less than 5g Green
5g to 22g Amber


<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.04.2019
5A
PART B
Total Salt contains in Solid or Semi-solid Food
Column I Column II Column III
Salt content Colour code of the Logo
(per 100g) Logo
More than 1.25g Red
Less than 0.25g Green
0.25g to 1.25g Amber


<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'04'17
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 17.04.2019
6A
Part C
Total Fat contains in Solid or Semi-solid Food
Column I Column II Column III
fat  content Colour code of the Logo
(per 100g) Logo
More than 17.5g Red
Less than 3g Green
3g to 17.5g Amber
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
Schedule II
Reference to Regulations 6
05 - 02
