

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2142$75 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'09'27
No. 2142/75 - FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  27, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  G   31130— 27  (09/2019)
SERVICE   MINUTE   OF   THE   SRI   LANKA  VALUATION   SERVICE
Following Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service of the Department of Valuation of Sri Lanka is substituted
without prejudice to any action taken or purported to have been taken in terms of the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka
Valuation Service of the Department of Valuation of Sri Lanka published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1051/12
dated 29
th of October 1998 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the amendments made thereto from
time to time.
                                                                        By order of the Public Service Commission,
M.A.B. DAYA SENARATH,
Secretary,
  Public Service Commission.
No. 1200 / 9, Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
16th of September 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
2A
01. Name of the Minute and the Effective Date :-
Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service shall come into force with effect from  27.09.2019
02. Appointing Authority :-
Officers of the Executive Service Category : Public Service Commission
Assisstant Valuer (Field / Office based Officers Segment 2) : Chief Valuer on whom powers have been delegated
by the Public Service Commission
03. Service Category / Service Categories :-
I Senior Executive - Special Grade
II Executive -  Grade I
Grade II
Grade III
III Field / Office based Officers Segment 2  - Grade I
Grade II
04. General definition of the role assigned :-
Valuation of properties and provision of directions on property management for public, provincial council and
local government institutions and statutory boards including government affiliated institutions inclusive of the
valuation of all state properties and the properties acquired by the government for statutory and non statutory
purposes.
05. Salaries :-
5.1 Salary Code Number
Senior Executive -     SL – 3- 2016
Executive -     SL – 1- 2016
Field / Office based Officers Segment 2 –   MN – 5- 2016
5.2 Salary Scale
Senior Executive -    Rs.   88000- 12 x 2700 –120400
Executive -    Rs.   47615- 10 x 1335-8x1630-17x2170 – 110895
Field / Office based Officers Segment 2
- Rs. 34605-10x660-11x755-15x930 - 63460
5.3 Initial salary step and salary point applicable to grade system
Category of service Initial salary step Initial salary point
(Rs.)
Special Grade Step 1    (SL-3-2016) 88,000.00
Class I Grade I Step 20  (SL-1-2016) 76,175.00
Class I Grade II Step 12  (SL-1-2016) 62,595.00
Class I Grade III Step 1    (SL-1-2016) 47,615.00
Class II Grade I Step 12  (MN-5-2016) 41,960.00
Class II Grade II Step 1    (MN-5-2016) 34,605.00

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
3A
06. Posts asssociated with the Service :-
6.1 Approved designations, Number of approved posts and grades :
Approved Number of Class / Grade Functions
designations approved for which
posts posts have
been approved
Chief Valuer 01 Special
(Senior Executive)
Provision of directions in the subject of property
valuation and property management to the client
institutions based on the requests for statutory and non
statutory purposes. Management and organization of
the Department of Valuation in conformity with the
institutional and financial regulations and deligation of
powers and functions amongst the officers and the
overall supervision of the activities of the Department
towards  that end as the Head of the Department.
Provision of directions, making orders, issuing
circulars and execution of the professional tasks
whenever appropriate.
Additional Chief 04 Special
Valuer
(Senior Executive)
Taking necessary steps to carry out functions involving
property valuation and property management for
statutory and non statutory purposes on the requests
made by the client institutions.Identification of the
methods and plans required in achieving the targets
related to each subject area assigned by the Chief Valuer,
giving necessary directions as appropriate and
professional tasks.
Deputy Chief 16 Class I
Valuer (Executive) Grade I
Implementation of the plans   and methods identified
towards achieving the assigned targets relating to each
area of subject in carrying out the tasks involving the
property valuation and the management of all state and
other properties taken over by the government for
statutory and non statutory purposes within an efficient
and fruitful management structure competitively as well
as being in cognizance of the cost effectiveness,
professional tasks and the preparation of the
programmes on such professional work as appropriate.
Senior Valuer 80 Class I
(Executive) Grade II
Implementation, supervision and liaison of the plans
and methods identified towards achieving the assigned
targets relating to each area of subject in carrying out
the tasks involving the property valuation and the
management of all state and other properties taken over
by the government for statutory and non statutory
purposes within an efficient and fruitful management
structure competitively as well as being in cognizance
of the cost effectiveness and the entailed professional
work.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
4A
Approved Number of Class / Grade Functions
designations approved for which
posts posts have
been approved
Valuer (Executive) 120 Class I
Grade III
Collection of information, analysation of information,
preparation of reports for the valuation work involving
statutory and non statutory purposes, proper
implementation of the programmes and plans of
property valuation and their managerial tasks that are
periodically assigned to be carried out in an efficient
and fruitful manner whilst being in cognizance of the
cost effectiveness.
Assistant Valuer(Field / 360 Class II
Office based Officers Grade I /
Segment 2) Class II
Grade II
Collection of information, analysation, preparation of
valuation reports for the valuation work involving
statutory and non statutory purposes, other field and
office based professional work assigned by the
supervisory officers and the tasks assigned as
appropriate.
6.2 Consolidated Number of officers :-
Chief Valuer  - 01
Additional Chief Valuer            - 04
Deputy Chief Valuer  -              16
Senior Valuer  - 80 216
Valuer - 120
Assistant Valuer  - 360 360
All Grades of III, II and I are considered as belonging to the number of consolidated officers for the purpose
of grade to grade promotion.
6.3  Nature of the post / posts :- Permanent and pensionable.
                                                                        (Shall be subject to the policy decisions made by the government in the
future on the pension scheme.)
07. Percentages of Recruitment :-
7.1
Class and Grade Stream Per centages
Field / Office based Officers Segment 2, Open 100%
Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Limited -
Valuation Service Merit -
Category of Executive Officers, Class I Open 20%
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Limited 20%
Valuation Service Merit 60%
05

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
5A
7.2 O pen Recruitment  - Method of Recruitment to the post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade II in the
category of Field / Office based Officers Segment 2.
  7.2.1  Grade at Recruitment  - Class II Grade II
7.2.2 Qualifications :-
7.2.2.1 Educational Qualifications :-
Should possess the Bachelor of Science Special Degree in Property Management and Valuation
recognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri Lanka or be a Chartered Valuer with the
membership of the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors in the United Kingdom.
7.2.2.2 Professional Qualifications :-  Not applicable.
7.2.2.3 Experience :-  Not applicable.
7.2.2.4 Physical Fitnesss :-
Every candidate should be in a sound physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island
and discharge duties in the post concerned.
7.2.2.5 Other Qualifications :-
I. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 II. Should be of an excellent moral character.
 III. The acceptance of the candidate as being met with qualifications required to sit for the
competitive examination for recruitment to the service will be made only if such candidate
has completed all the relevant qualifications and the stipulated age limit in every respect as
at the date set out in the notice calling for applications.
7.2.3 Age :-
7.2.3.1 Minimum limit :- Not less than 21 years
7.2.3.2 Maximum limit :- Not more than 35 years
7.2.4 Method of Recruitment :-
Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Those who
are eligible will be selected subsequent to subjecting a number of canditates equal to that of the candidates
expected to be recruited to a general interview in the order of merit of the aggregate marks of those
candidates who have passed the written examination.
 7.2.4.1 Written Examination (Syllabus shown in Annex – 06)
Subjects Maximum Minimum  Marks to be
Marks secured for a pass
Subject related Question 100 40
Paper, Part I
Subject related Question 100 40
Paper, Part II

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
6A
 7.2.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :- Commissioner General of Examinations
7.2.4.2 Pr ofessional Test :- Not applicable
7.2.4.3 General Interview :-
Objectives expected to be achieved - No marks will be awarded and scrutiny of qualifications
will only take place.
7.2.4.3.1 Authority appointing the general interview board :-
By the Chief Valuer
7.2.4.4 Interview evaluating the eligibilities :- Not applicable
7.2.5 Method of inviting applications :-  Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in the
government gazette, newspapers and via website.
7.2.6 Limited Recruitment - Not applicable
7.2.7 Recruitment on merit basis  - Not applicable
7.3 Open Recruitment  – Method of recruitment to the post of Valuer of Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Valuation Service in the category of executive officers.
  7.3.1  Grade at Recruitment  - Class I Grade III in the category of executive officers
        7.3.2 Qualifications :-
7.3.2.1 Educational Qualifications :-
Should have obtained a first or second class honest pass in the Bachelor of Science Special
Degree in Property Management and Valuation recognized by the University Grants Commission
of Sri Lanka or,
should have passed the final examination of the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors (General
Division) in the United Kingdom.
7.3.2.2 Professional Qualifications :-  Not applicable.
7.3.2.3 Experience :-   Not applicable.
7.3.2.4 Physical Fitnesss :-
Every candidate should be in an appropriate physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the
island and discharge duties in the post concerned.
7.3.2.5 Other Qualifications :-
 I. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
II. Should be of an excellent moral character.
III. The acceptance of the candidate as being met with qualifications required to sit for the competitive
examination for recruitment to the service will be made only if such candidate has completed all
the relevant qualifications and the stipulated age limit in every respect as at the date set out in the
notice calling for applications.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
7A
7.3.3 Age :-
7.3.3.1 Minimum Limit :-  Not less than 21 years
7.3.3.2 Maximum Limit :-  Not more than 35 years
7.3.4  Method of Recruitment :-
Officers who have met with basic qualifications will be recruited for the vacant positions subsequent
to subjecting them to a general interview on the results of a written examination in the order of merit
of the aggregate marks of  such written examination.
7.3.4.1 Written Examination (Syllabus shown in Annex – 07)
Subjects Maximum Minimum Marks to be
Marks secured for a pass
Subject related Question Paper
(Mutiple choice question paper) 100 40
Subject related Question Paper
(Essay type question paper) 100 40
7.3.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :- Commissioner General of Examinations
7.3.4.2 Professional Qualifications :-  Not applicable.
7.3.4.3 General Interview :-
Objectives expected to be achieved - No marks will be awarded and scrutiny of qualifications
will only take place.
NOTE - The number of candidates to be called for the interview will be decided upon by the
Appointing Authority in accordance with the order of merit of the marks the candidates secured
at the written examination and the number of candidates to be recruited as appropriate.
7.3.4.3.1 Authority appointing the general interview board :- Public Service Commission
7.3.4.4 Interview evaluating the eligibilities :- Not applicable
7.3.5 Method of inviting applications :-  Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in the
government gazette, newspapers and via website.
7.4 Limited Recruitment  – Method of recruitment to the post of Valuer of Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Valuation Service in the category of executive officers.
7.4.1  Grade at Recruitment  - Class I Grade III in the category of executive officers
7.4.2 Qualifications :-

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
8A
7.4.2.1 Educational Qualifications and Experience :-
Educational Qualifications
Officers who are in the post of Assistant Valuer with  a Bachelor of Science Special Degree in
Property Management and Valuation recognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri
Lanka or,
Officers who are in the post of Assistant Valuer holding the position of Chartered Valuer with the
membership of the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors in the United Kingdom.
Experience
Should have completed five (05) year period of active and satisfactory service in Class II Grade
II of and earned five (05) salary increments or should be an Assistant Valuer in Class II Grade I.
7.4.2.2 Professional Qualifications :-   Not applicable
7.4.2.3 Physical Fitnesss :-
Every candidate should be in an appropriate physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and discharge duties in the post concerned.
7.4.2.4 Other :-
I. Should be an officer confirmed in service of the post of Assistant Valuer.
 II. Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination stipulated for Class II Grade II of the
Assistant Valuer.
 III. Should have completed a five (05) year period of active and satisfactory service immediately
prior to the date indicated in the gazette notice calling for applications.
  IV . Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment during the immediately
preceding period of five (05) years.
V . The acceptance of the candidate as being met with qualifications required to sit for the
written examination for recruitment to the service will be made only if such candidate has
completed all the relevant qualifications in every respect as at the date set out in the notice
calling for applications.
7.4.3 Age :- Not applicable
7.4.4 Method of Recruitment :-
Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and an interview  for evaluating the
eligibility.
7.4.4.1 Written Examination (Syllabus shown in Annex – 08)
Subjects Maximum Minimum Marks to be
Marks secured for a pass
Subject related Question Paper
(Multiple choice) 100 50
Subject related Question
Paper (Essay) 100 50

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
9A
7.4.4.1.1 Conducting Authority :- Commissioner General of Examinations
7.4.4.2 Professional Qualifications :-  Not applicable
7.4.4.3 Ge neral Interview  :-  Not applicable
7.4.4.4 Interview for evaluating the eligibility :-
Candidates constituting twice the number of vacancies as per the register in alphabetical order
obtained from the  Authority conducting the written examination in accordance with the order of
merit of the marks the candidates secured at the limited competitive examination will be called
for the interview for evaluating the eligibility. Scrutiny of the basic qualifications will also be
made at the interview for evaluating the eligibility.
Main Headings for which Maximum Marks Minimum Marks
marks are awarded considered for selection
Additional educational 35
qualifications
Additional professional
qualifications 25
Additional experience 25 Not applicable
Other qualifications 10
Performance demonstrated 05
at the interview
Total 100
Note:-
1. At the time of the recruitment, a detailed marking scheme inclusive of the maximum marks
allocated to the main marks awarding areas set out in the table above will be approved by
the Public Service Commission and the said detailed marking scheme will be published
after having it included in the notice calling for applications concerned.
2. Recruitment to the post will be made in accordance with the order of merit secured at the
written examination and the interview for evaluating the eligibility and the number of existing
vacancies.
3. Marks of the written examination will not be made available to the board of interview for
evaluating the eligibility.
7.4.4.4.1 Authority appointing the board of interview for evaluating the eligibility :- Public
Service Commission
7.4.5 Method of inviting applications :-  Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in the
government gazette, newspapers and via website.
7.5 Recruitment on the basis of service experience and merit :-
7.5.1 Grade at Recruitment - Class I Grade III of the executive category of service.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
10A
7.5.2 Qualifications :-
  I. Should be an Assistant Valuer in Class II Grade I.
  II. Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination of Class II Grade I relating to the Field /
Office based officers, Segment 2.
  III. Should have completed a five (05) year period of satisfactory service immediately prior to the
date indicated in the gazette notice calling for applications.
 IV . Should not have been subject to any disciplinary punishment during the period of five (05) years
immediately prior to the date indicated in the gazette notice calling for applications.
7.5.3 Age :- Not applicable
     7.5.4 Method of Recruitment :-
Recruitment will be made on the results of an interview for evaluating the eligibility.
7.5.4.1   Written Examination :- Not applicable
7.5.4.2 Proessional Qualifications :-  Not applicable
7.5.4.3 General Interview :-  Not applicable
7.5.4.4 Interview for evaluating the eligibility :-
Officers constituting not less than twice the number of vacancies according to the seniority of
such officers will be called for the interview for evaluating the eligibility. Scrutiny of the basic
qualifications will also be made at the interview for evaluating the eligibility.
Main Headings for which Maximum Marks Minimum Marks
marks are awarded considered for selection
Seniority 60
Merit 30 Not applicable
Interview 10
NOTE :-
1. At the time of the recruitment, a detailed marking scheme inclusive of the maximum marks
allocated to the main marks awarding areas set out in the table above will be approved by
the Public Service Commission and the said detailed marking scheme will be published
after having it included in the notice calling for applications concerned.
2. Recruitment to the post will be made in accordance with the order of merit secured at the
interview for evaluating the eligibility and the existing number of vacancies.
7.5.4.4.1 Authority appointing the board of interview for evaluating the eligibility :- Public
Service Commission

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
11A
7.5.5 Method of inviting applications :-  Applications will be invited by publishing public notices in the
government gazette, newspapers and via website.
08. Efficiency Bars :-
       8.1
Which of the Before how many years the Nature of the Efficiency
Efficiency Bars Efficiency Bar to be passed Bar –     Written Examination /
Professional Test /
Certificate Course / Other
Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2
1st Efficiency Bar Prior to lapse of three years
(03) from the recruitment to
Class II Grade II Annex  01
2nd Efficiency Bar Prior to lapse of five years
(05) from the promotion to
Class II Grade I Annex  02
Category of Executive Officers
1st Efficiency Bar Prior to lapse of three years
(03) from the recruitment to
Class I Grade III Annex  03
2nd Efficiency Bar Prior to lapse of three years
(03) from the promotion to
Class I Grade II Annex  04
3rd Efficiency Bar Prior to lapse of five years
(05) from the promotion to
Class I Grade I Annex  05
NOTE :- Officers finding it unable to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination during the  relevant period in spite
of the fact that they should have passed it as such under the provisions of the Service Minutes that existed
prior to the effective date of this Service Minute should complete the Efficiency Bar by getting through the
subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations held under this Service Minute that correspond to each of the
subjects in terms of the Service Minutes then existed. The corresponding subjects are given in Annex 09.
8.2   Frequency at which the Efficiency Bar Examination is conducted :-
  Efficiency Bar Examination will be held twice a year.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
12A
8.3 The authority conducting the examinations relevant to the Efficiency Bars :-
For Assistant Valuers in Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2 -
1st Efficiency Bar
2nd Efficiency Bar
For category of Executive Officers -
1st Efficiency Bar
2nd Efficiency Bar
3rd Efficiency Bar
9. Language Proficiency
Language Pr oficiency to be acquired
1. Official language Officers joined in the Service through a language other than an official
language  should acquire relevant language proficiency during the period of
probation.
2.  Other official language Should acquire the language proficiency at the prescribed level applicable
to the category of Field / Office based Officers, Segment II and the
category of Executive Officers in terms of the Public Administration
Circular No. 01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto.
10. Grade Promotions :-
10.1 Pr omotion of Assistant Valuers of Class II Grade II in the category of Field / Office based Officers,
Segment 2 to the post of Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade I of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service.
10.1.1 According to general performance -
10.1.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-
 (I) Should have been confirmed in the appointment.
(II) Should have completed minimum of a ten (10) year period of active and satisfactory service
in Class II Grade II of the category of Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2 and earned
ten (10) salary increments for promotion.
(III) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or above during a period of
ten (10) years immediately preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approved
procedure of the performance appraisal.
(1V) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05) years
immediately prior to the date of promotion.
(V) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the level applicable to
the category of Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2.
(VI) Should have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination applicable to the category of
Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2 on the due date.
By an institution approved by the Chief V aluer
By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
13A
10.1.2 Method of Promotion :-
When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the
Appointing Authority, promotion to the post of Assistant Valuer, Class II Grade I will be made with
effect from the date on which they fulfill such qualifications after the scrutiny of their qualifications
by the Appointing Authority.
10.2 Pr omotion of officers in Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service to Class I Grade II in
the category of Executive Officers.
10.2.1 According to general performance -
10.2.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-
(I) Should have been confirmed in the appointment.
 (II) Should have completed minimum of a ten (10) year period of active and satisfactory service
in Class I Grade III of the category of Executive Officers and earned ten (10) salary
increments for promotion.
 (III) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or above during a period of
ten (10) years immediately preceding the date of promotion in accordance with the approved
procedure of the performance appraisal.
(1V) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05)
years immediately prior to the date of promotion.
(V) Should have acquired the proficiency in other official language at the level applicable to
the category of Executive Officers.
(V1) Should have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination applicable to the category of
Executive Officers on the due date.
10.2.1.2 Method of Promotion :-
When the officer concerned who has fulfilled qualifications makes a request as per the prescribed
form to the Appointing Authority for promotion to Class I Grade II, the promotion will be made
with effect from the date on which such officer fulfills relevant qualifications after the scrutiny
of his qualifications by the Appointing Authority.
10.3 Pr omotion of officers in Class I Grade II of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service to Class I Grade I in the
category of Executive Officers.
10.3.1 According to general performance -
10.3.1.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-
(I) Should have completed a seven (07) year period of active and satisfactory service in Class
I Grade II of the category of Executive Officers and earned seven (07) salary increments
due.
(II) Should have demonstrated a performance at satisfactory level or   above all throughout the
period of seven (07) years immediately preceding the date of promotion in accordance
with the approved procedure of the performance appraisal.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
14A
(III) Should have passed the first Efficiency Bar Examination applicable to Class I Grade II of
the category of Executive Officers on the due date.
(IV) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05) years
immediately prior to the date of promotion.
(V) Should have obtained a Post Graduate Degree in Property Management and Valuation
reccognized by the University Grants Commission of Sri Lanka or a Post Graduate Degree
in Property Management at the Royal Institution of Chartered Suryeyors in the United
Kingdom.
10.3.1.2 Method of Promotion :-
When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to
the Appointing Authority for promotion to Class I Grade I, the promotion will be made with
effect from the date on which such officers fulfill relevant qualifications after the scrutiny of
their qualifications by the Appointing Authority.
NOTE :-
The promotion should be deferred by a period equal to the period of time the officer spent to
pass the Efficiency Bar Examination on the due date.
10.4 Pr omotion of officers in Class I Grade I of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service to the Special Grade in
the category of Senior Executive Officers.
10.4.1 Qualifications to be fulfilled :-
(I) Should have completed a five (05) year period of active and satisfactory service as an officer in
Class I Grade I of the category of Executive Officers by officers qualifying for promotion and
earned five (05) salary increments after the  promotion to Class I Grade I.
(II) Should have completed a period of active and satisfactory service not less than eighteen (18)
years in the category of Executive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service as at the date
qualifying for promotion.
(I11) Should have completed a satisfactory period of service during the period of five (05) years
immediately prior to the date qualifying for promotion and should not have been subject to any
disciplinary punishment.
NOTE :-
Those officers who are absorbed into Class I Grade I and not having fulfilled the qualifications
specified under 10.3.1.1 (V) or those who are promoted to Class I Grade I without meeting with
the qualifications specified under 10.3.1.1 (V) should complete the qualifications specified under
10.3.1.1 (V) for promotion to Special Grade.
       10.4.2  Method of Promotion :-
When the officers who have fulfilled qualifications make a request as per the prescribed form to the
Appointing Authority for promotion to Special Grade, the promotions will be made by the Public
Service Commission on the results of an interview for evaluating the eligibility.
A number of officers forwarding applications not less than twice the number of vacancies will be
called for the interview for evaluating the eligibility according to the seniority of such officers. Scrutiny
of the basic qualifications will also be made at the interview for evaluating the eligibility.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
15A
Main Headings for which marks are awarded Maximum Marks Minimum Marks considered for
selection
Seniority 60
Merit 30 Not applicable
Marks awarded at the interview 10
Marks assigned for merit will be awarded for additional educational   qualifications, additional professional
qualifications and for presentation on the relevant field.
NOTE :-
1. At the time of the recruitment, a detailed marking scheme inclusive of the maximum marks allocated to the
main marks awarding areas set out in the table above will be approved by the Public Service Commission and
the said detailed marking scheme will be published after having it included in the notice calling for applications
concerned.
2. Recruitment to the post will be made in accordance with the order of merit secured at the interview for
evaluating the eligibility and the number of existing vacancies.
11. Appointment to Posts :-
Post Qualifications Method of Selection
Chief Valuer Will be appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers.
Additional Chief Should  be an officer in
Valuer Special Grade
Deputy Chief Should  be an officer in
Valuer Class I Grade I
Senior Valuer Should  be an officer in
Class I Grade I / Class I Grade II
Will be appointed by the Public Service Commission
from among the officers in Special Grade of the Sri
Lanka Valuation Service based on the seniority and
merit.
Will be appointed by the Public Service Commission
from among the officers in Class I Grade I of the Sri
Lanka Valuation Service based on the merit and
seniority.  (Seniority 80%  Merit 20%)
Areas for which marks Number of
are awarded Marks
Additional educational 05
qualifications
Additional professional 05
qualifications
Presentation relating to 05
the field concerned
Performance shown at the 05
interview
Will be appointed by the Public Service Commission
from among the officers in Class I Grade I  / Class I
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
16A
12. Conditions governing the Service :-
12.1 Conditions relating to Confirmation :-
This is a service confined to the Department of Valuation. However, officers can be appointed to serve in any
part of the island within the Department. The Assistant  V aluers recruited through the open competitve
examination to Class II Grade II of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service  under the category of Field / Office based
Officers, Segment 2 of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service and the Valuers recruited through the open competitve
examination to Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service  under the category of Executive Officers
of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years whereas the
officers recruited to the post of Valuer in Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service  under the
category of Executive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service on the limited, seniority and merit basis
will be subject to an acting period of one (01) year. The officers will be confimed in their respective posts if
their work, attendance and conduct are at the level higher than the satisfactory mark provided they meet with
the requirements associated with the Minute.
12.2 T raining and Development :-
Measures will be taken to expose the officers towards training and development activities within the
opportunities available in the context of the standards of allocations for training in the public service without
causing any impediment to their official duties.
13. Interpretation and Definitions :-
1. “Gazette” means the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
II. “Service Minute” means the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service.
III. “Service” means Sri Lanka Valuation Service.
IV . “Secretary” means Secretary to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Finance.
V . “Period of Active Service” means the period of service of an officer drawing the salary assigned to his post
excluding any period of no pay leave other than periods of approved no pay leave for specific purposes,
which have been recognized by the Cabinet of Ministers.
14. Absorption of officers in service into the new system of grades
14.1 It is applicable only for those who are in service as at the date on which this procedure takes effect.  All
officers drawing salaries under the salary scale of MN 5 - 2006 - A as provided by the Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006 and the Circulars incidental thereto on the due date will be absorbed as follows subject
to the provisions of Section 04 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.
Period of service will be calculated on the basis of the date appointed to each post. However, due to absorption,
the date of increment of the person concerned should not be changed and such date should continue to be
effective as the increment date that remained prior to the absorption. Likewise, due to reason that the salary
step of the person concerned was drawing last corresponds to the new salary step, he should not be placed on
the next higher salary step either in terms of Section 4.4 of Chapter VII of the Establishments Code.
(i) Class II Grade II
(a) Officers who have not completed at least ten (10) years of service in the post of Assistant District
Valuer of Class III Grade II.
(b) Officers who have not fulfilled qualifications for promotion to Class III Grade I in terms of the
existed Service Minute despite the completion of at least ten (10) years of service in the post of
Assistant District Valuer of Class III Grade II will be absorbed into the post of  Assistant Valuer
of Class II Grade II.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
17A
(ii) Class II Grade I
(a) Officers who have completed at least ten (10) years of service in the post of Assistant District
Valuer of Class III Grade II and earned a minimum of ten (10) salary increments during the period
concerned and fulfilled qualifications for promotion to Class III Grade I in terms of the Service
Minute that was effective before the new Service Minute came into force, and
(b) Officers who are engaged in service in the post of Assistant District Valuer of Class III Grade I,
will be absorbed into the post of  Assistant Valuer of Class II Grade I.
(iii) T o SL- 1
(a) Officers who are in Class II Grade II under the Salary Code SL-1 as at the effective date of this
Service Minute will be absorbed into Class I Grade III of the Service.
(b) Officers who are in Class II Grade I under the Salary Code SL-1 as at the effective date of this
Service Minute will be absorbed into Class I Grade II of the Service.
(c) Officers who are in Class I Grade II under the Salary Code SL-1 as at the effective date of this
Service Minute will be absorbed into Class I Grade I of the Service.
(iv)  To SL- 03
(a) Officers who are in Class I Grade I under the Salary Code SL-3 as at the effective date of this
Service Minute will be absorbed into the Special Grade of the Service.
NOTE I :
The excess period of active and satisfactory service in addition to the period of service required
to absorb into each grade under the provisions of absorption will be reckoned as the period of
active and satisfactory service in the grade into which the absorption is made.
NOTE II:
The officers who received/will receive promotions pursuant to the approval of the Public Service
Commission in terms of the former Service Minute will be absorbed into the same grade to
which they received  their promotions according to the  new titles of posts, grades and number of
posts of the cadre approved by the letter No. DMS/1166/III dated 17.05.2017 of the Department
of Management Services.
NOTE III:
The provisions referred to in (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of 14 above are applicable to the other officers
15.  Interim Provisions – . Measures that have not been finalized as at the effective date of the Service Minute and
those that have been met with the approval of the Public Service Commission after initiating action to grant
promotion in terms of the Former Service Minute will be dealt with the provisions of the former Service Minute.
16. Other :-
(i)  In the case of every appointment, conditions laid down in the Procedural Rules of the Public Service
Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the provisions of
the Establishments Code are applicable.
(ii) Decision on any matter not provided for in this Minute will be made by the Public     Service Commission.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
18A
Annex - 01
1st Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class II Grade II in the Service Category of Field / Officce
based Officers, Segment – 2 of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
Question Paper Duration Total Minimum
Marks Pass Marks
Part I (Practical Test) Preparation of 03 Hours 100 40
Condition Report
Part II (Practical Test) 06 Hours 100 40
Valuation for Rating
02. Authority conducting the Examination : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.
03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.
04. Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Part I
Preparation of Condition
Report
(Practical Test)
Part II
(Practical Test)
Valuation for Rating
Annex - 02
2
nd Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class II Grade I in the Service Category of Field / Officce
based Officers, Segment – 2 of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
Question Paper Duration T otal Marks Minimum Pass Marks
Part I
(a) Administration and Finance 02 Hours 100 40
(b) Departmental Organization and Administration 02 Hours 100 40
(c) Capital Valuation 03 Hours 100 40
Part II
(a) Preparation of a comprehensive V aluation 03 Hours 100 40
Report of a given property for a specified
purpose.
Preparation of a Condition Report of a given property within a specified
time.
Procedure involved in the identification of hereditaments, taking their
measurements, sketching and numbering including office based work
related thereto.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
19A
02. Authority conducting the Examination : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.
03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.
04. Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Part I
(a) Administration
and Finance
(b) Departmental Organization
and Administration
(c) Capital Valuation
Part II
(a) Preparation of
a comprehensive Valuation
Report of a given property
for a specified purpose.
Annex - 03
1
st Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class I Grade III in the Category of Executive Officers of the
Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
Question Paper Duration T otal Marks Minimum Pass Marks
Part I
(a) Financial Management and
Procurement Procedure of the
public sector
(b) Administration
Part II
(a) Applied Valuation 03 Hours 100 50
(b) Management of Valuation 03 Hours 100 50
Units
02. Authority conducting the Examination :
i. Part I : Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
ii. Part II : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.
Chapters II, III, IV , XI, XII, XIV , XIX, XXV , XXVI and XXVII of the
Establishments Code and F.R. 2, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 135, 136, 137,
138 and 139 of the Financial Regulations.
Departmental Organization Structure, Delegation of Powers, Departmental
Regulations and Office Systems.
Classification procedure in respect of different classes of properties,
methods of valuation for compulsory acquisition, estimates, sale / purchase
and taxation purposes.
In the preparation of a report, the candidate is expected to inspect the
property as per the given instructions, analyze the given data and suggest a
valuation of the property, assuming the additional data. Although the accuracy
of the valuation is not materially significant, the methodology and the
approach to the valuation within the legal framework will be considered as
important.
Officers of Class I Grade III of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service should
sit for these subjects applicable to the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations for Class II
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service and the duration and
the pass marks pertaining to such examination are applicable to these
officers as well. Canditates may sit for one subject at a time or both the
subjects at one sitting.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
20A
03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.
04. Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Part I
(a) Financial Management
and Procurement
Procedure
of the public sector
(b) Administration
Part II
(a) Applied Valuation
(b) Management of Valuation
Units
Annex - 04
2
nd Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class I Grade II in the Category of Executive Officers of the
Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
Question Paper Duration T otal Marks Minimum Pass Marks
Part I 03 Hours 100 50
(a) Advance Valuation
02. Authority conducting the Examination : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.
03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.
04. Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Part II
(a) Advance Valuation
The syllabus pertaining to the 1 st Efficiency Bar Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examination for officers in Class III of
the Sri Lanka Administrative Service is applicable for this purpose.
Valuation Systems and Principles in practice, Stautory Valuations such as
valuation under the Land Acquisition Act etc., Valuation of Agricultural
and Mineral Resources, Valuation of Assets and Goodwill.
Application of Departmental Orders and Circulars in the management of
valuation units, Duties of Public Management Assistants and supporting
staffs, Progress Control of the Unit, Relationship with the Regional Valuer,
Delegation of Powers in the financial management, Establishment Matters
in the Unit, Security of the Unit and the Disciplinary Procedure.
(1) Valuations for capital and rating activities in relation to special purpose
properties such as Airports, Golf Courses, Licensed Liquor Sales Centers,
Recreational and Sports Complexes, Shopping Complexes, Hotels with
boarding facilities, public utility properties and Condominium properties
etc. and the principles governing the valuation of lands bearing mineral
resources.
(2) Preparation of financial statements of companies for valuation purposes with
necessary adjustments.
(3) Application of various principles of Land Economics and Concepts to
valuation methods and the valuation in markets with less information.
(4) This question paper will include essay type questions as well as problems
relating to valuation.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
21A
Annex - 05
3rd Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Class I Grade I in the Category of Executive Officers of the
Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
The requirement of passing over of the third (3rd) Efficiency Bar Examination will be met with by successfully
completing the Course in Capacity Building Level - I conducted by an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.
02. Authority conducting the Course : By an institution approved by the Chief Valuer.
03. Effeciency Bar Examinations will be held twice a year.
04. Syllabus for the Examination : Not applicable.
NOTE : Officers who have served a period of service more than five (05) years in Grade I and earned more than
five (05) salary increments will be exempted from the third (3rd) Efficiency Bar Examination.
A concessionary period of five (05) years as from the date on which this Service Minute meets with approval will
be granted to those other officers who were absorbed.
Annex - 06
Open Competitve Entry Examination for recruitment of Assistant Valuers to
Class II Grade II in the category of Field / Office based Officers - Segment 2 of
the Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
Question Paper Duration T otal Marks Minimum Pass
Marks
Question Paper (I) 30 Minutes 100 40
Question Paper (II) 01 & 1/2 Hours 100 40
02. Authority conducting the Examination : By the Commissioner General of Examinations.
03. Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Question Paper 1
Question Paper 2
This paper will contain not more than 25 multiple choice questions
pertaining to subjects expected to be covered in a Bachelor of Science
Degree in Estate Management and Valuation.
This paper will contain essay type and structural type questions inclusive
of topics pertaining to subject areas expected to be covered in a Bachelor
of Science Degree in Estate Management and Valuation.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
22A
Annex - 07
Open Competitive Examination for the recruitment of Valuers to Class I Grade III in the Category of
Executive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
Question Paper Duration T otal Marks Minimum Pass Marks
Subject related 30 Minutes 100 40
Question Paper
(Multiple choice
Question Paper)
Subject related 02 Hours 100 40
Question Paper
(Essay type
Question Paper)
02. Authority conducting the Examination : By the Commissioner General of Examinations.
03. Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Subject related
Question Paper
(Multiple choice
Question Paper)
Subject related
Question Paper
(Essay type
Question Paper)
Annex - 08
Limited Competitve Examination conducted for appointment of Assistant Valuers
in the category of Field / Office based Officers - Segment 2 to the post of
Valuer of Class I Grade III in the Category of Executive Officers of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service
01. Particulars of the Examination :-
Question Paper Duration T otal Marks Minimum Pass Marks
Subject related Question Paper 01 Hour 100 50
(Multiple choice Question Paper)
Subject related Question Paper 02 Hours 100 50
(Essay type Question Paper)
This paper will contain not more than 25 multiple choice questions pertaining
to subjects expected to be covered in a Bachelor of Science Degree in Estate
Management and Valuation.
This paper will contain essay type and structural type questions prepared
with topics pertaining to subject areas of Property Valuation and related fields,
particularly with regard to Land Economics, property market and investment
market and it is expected to test the in-depth knowledge of the candidates in
these subject areas.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
23A
02. Authority conducting the Examination : By the Commissioner General of Examinations.
03. Syllabus for the Examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
Subject related Question Paper
(Multiple choice Question
Paper)
Subject related Question Paper
(Essay type Question
Paper)
Annex - 09
Corresponding Efficiency Bar Examination Subjects under each of the Service Minutes
This paper will contain not more than 50 multiple choice questions
pertaining to subject areas expected to be covered in a Bachelor of Science
Degree in Estate Management and Valuation.
This is an essay type question paper designed to test the candidate’s
experience and the knowledge in the principles of valuation, statutory
provisions and regulations as well as the knowledge in Property Market,
Town Planning and Land Economics.
The Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Valution Service
Published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1051/12 dated
29.10.1998 as amended by the Gazettes No. 1157/04 dated
06.11.2000 and No.1499/5 dated 28.05.2007
Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2
Class III Grade II of the Sri LankaValuation
Service
Preparation of a Condition Report
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Valuation for Rating
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Field / Office based Officers, Segment 2
Class III Grade I of the Sri LankaValuation
Service
Administration and Finance
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Departmental Organization and Administration
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Capital Valuation
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Preparation of a  comprehensive Valuation Report
of a given property for a specified purpose
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
This Service Minute
Field / Office based Officers,
Segment 2Class II Grade II of the
Sri Lanka Valuation Service
Preparation of a Condition Report
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Valuation for Rating
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Field / Office based Officers,
Segment 2
Class II Grade I of the Sri Lanka
Valuation Service
Administration and Finance
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Departmental Organization and
Administration
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Capital Valuation
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Preparation of a  comprehensive
Valuation Report of a given
property for a specified
purpose2nd Efficiency Bar
Examination
02.
01.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'09'27
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  27.09.2019
24A
Category of Executive OficersClass II Grade III
of the Sri Lanka Valuation Service
Financial Regulations
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Administration
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Applied Valuation
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Management of Valuation Units
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Category of Executive Oficers
Class II Grade II of the Sri LankaValuation Service
Advance Valuation
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Category of Executive Oficers
Class I Grade II of the Sri LankaValuation Service
None
Category of Executive Oficers
Class I Grade III of the Sri
LankaValuation Service
Financial Management and Procurement
Procedure of the public sector
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Administration
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Applied Valuation
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Management of Valuation Units
1st Efficiency Bar Examination
Category of Executive Oficers
Class I Grade II of the Sri
LankaValuation Service
Advance Valuation
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination
Category of Executive Oficers
Class I Grade II of the Sri
LankaValuation Service
Obtaining a certificate after the successful
completion of the Course in Capacity
Building Level – I conducted by an
institution approved by the Chief Valuer.
3rd Efficiency Bar Examination
(The officers who have completed a period
of service of five (05) years in Class I/I
(including the period of service in Class I/
II of the old Service Minute) as at the
effective date of this Service Minute will
be reckoned as being successful in the third
(3rd) Efficiency Bar Examination and
those officers who have not completed the
respective Efficiency Bar as at the
effective date of this Service Minute will
be provided with an interim concessionary
period of five (05) years to pass over this
efficiency bar as from the date on which
this Service Minute comes into force.)
03.
04.
05.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
10 - 420