

<!-- page 1 -->

SUPPRESSION OF TERRORIST BOMBINGS
ACT, No. 11 OF 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 24th May, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May  28th, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs.6.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Suppression of Terrorist  Bombings
Act, No. 11 of 1999
Short title and
date of operation.
Convention
States.
[Certified on 24 th May, 1999]
L.D.–O.17/98.
A N  ACT   GIVE  EFFECT  TO  THE  CONVENTION  FOR  THE  SUPPRESSION
OF  TERRORIST  BOMBINGS ; AND  FOR  MATTERS  CONNCECTED
THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
WHEREAS  a Convention for the suppression of  terrorist
bombings was adopted by the United Nations General
Assembly on the Fifteenth Day of  December Nineteen
Hundred and Ninety Seven and opened for signature in New
York on the twelfth day of January, Nineteen Hundred and
Ninety Eight  :
AND WHEREAS the Government of  Sri Lanka became a
signatory to the aforesaid Convention on the Twelfth Day of
January Nineteen Hundred and Ninety Eight :
AND WHEREAS it is necessary for the Government of  Sri
Lanka to ratify the aforesaid Convention and to make legal
provision to give effect to the provisions of the aforesaid
Convention is Sri Lanka :
NOW THEREFORE  be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the Suppression of  Terrorist
bombings Act, No.11 of 1999 and shall come into operation
on such date as the Minister, by Order published in the
Gazette,certifies as the date on which the Convention for the
Suppression of  Terrorist Bombings signed at New York on
January 12, 1998 (hereinafter reffered to as “ the Convention”)
enters into force in respect of  Sri Lanka.
2. The Minister may, from time to time, by Order published
in the Gazette, certify the States Which are parties to the
Convention.  A state in respect of which an Order is made
under this section is hereinafter referred to as “a Convention
State”.
H22545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Suppression of Terrorist  Bombings
Act, No. 11 of 1999
Offence of
Terroist Bombing
3. (1) Any person who unlawfully and intentionally,
delivers, places, discharges or detonates, an explosive or other
lethal device in, into, or against, a place of public use, a state or
govenment facility, a public transportation system or an
infrastructure facility with intent to -
(a) cause death or serious bodily injury; or
(b) cause extensive destruction of such place, facility or
system, where such destruction results in, or is likely to
result in, major economic loss,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after trial on indictment by the High Court, be
punished with imprisonment for a term not less than fifteen
years and not exceeding twenty years.
(2)  Any person who -
(a) attempts to commit an offence under subsection (1) ;
(b) aids or abets in the commission of an offence under
subsection (1) ;
(c) conspires with another person or a group of persons to
commit on offence under subsection (1),
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction, after trial on indictment by the High Court,  be
liable to the same punishment as is prescribed for an offence
under subsection (1)
In this subsection, “abet” has the same meaning as in
sections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.
( 3) The High Court shall have the jurisdiction to try an
offence under sebsection (1) or subsection (2) commited in
any place outside the territory of  Sri Lanka, in any of the
following cases, that is to say where -
(a) the person alleged to have commited the offence is a
citizen of Sri Lanka or is a stateless person who has his
habitual residence in Sri  Lanka;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Suppression of Terrorist  Bombings
Act, No. 11 of 1999
Jurisdiction of the
High Court.
(b)  the offence is committed against a citizen of  Sri Lanka ;
(c)  the offence is committed against an embassy, diplomatic
or consular premises or other property, of the
Government of Sri Lanka in any other country;
(d) the offence is committed with the intention of compelling
the Govenment of Sri Lanka to do, or to refrain from
doing, any act;
(e) the offence is committed on board an aircraft operated
by the Government of  Sri Lanka.
4. The jurisdiction vested in the High Court to try
offences under this Act shall be exercised by the High Court
of Sri Lanka holden at Colombo or the High Court established
by Article 154
P of the Constitution for the Western  Province.
5. Where a person who  is not a citizen of  Sri Lanka is
arrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall be
entitled -
(a) to communicate without delay, with the appropriate
representative of the State of which he is a national or
which is otherwise entitled to  protect his rights, or  if
he is a  stateless  person, with the nearest appropriate
representative of the State in the territory of which he
was habitually resident;
(b)  to be visited by a representative of that State; and
(c)  to be informed of his rights under paragraphs (a) and
(b)
6. Where a request is made to the Government of  Sri
Lanka, by or on behalf of the Government of a Convention
State for the extradition of any person accused or convicted
of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act, the Minister
shall, on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, forthwith
notify the Government of the requesting State of the measures
which the Government of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to
take, for the prosecution or extradition of that person for that
offence.
Rights of certain
persons arrested
for offences under
this Act.
Minister to notify
requesting
country, of
measures taken
against persons
for whose
extradition
request is made.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Suppression of Terrorist  Bombings
Act, No. 11 of 1999
Existing
extradition
arrangement with
convention States
deemed  to provide
for offences in
the Schedule.
7. Where there is an extradition arrangement made by
the Government of   Sri Lanka with any Convention State in
force on the date on which this Act comes into operation,
such arrangement shall be deemed, for the purposes of the
Extradition  Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision for
extradition in respect of  the  offences specified  in the Schedule
to this Act.
8. Where there is no extradition arrangement made by
the Government of  Sri Lanka with any Convention State, the
Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, treat the
Convention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No.8 of
1977, as an extradition arrangement made, by the Government
of  Sri Lanka with that Convention State providing for
extradition in respect of the offences specified in the Schedule
to this Act.
9. The Extradition Law, No.8 of 1977 is hereby
amended in the Schedule to that Law, by the insertion
immediately before Part B of that Schedule, of the following
item:-
“ 41. The unlawful and intentional delivery, placing,
discharging or detonation, of any explosive or other
lethal device, within the meaning of the Convention on
the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings in, into, or
against, a place of public use or state or government
facility a public transportation system or infrastructure
facility, with intent –
(a)  to cause death or serious bodily injury;
(b) to cause extensive destruction of  such place, facility
or system, where such destruction results in, or is
likely to result in major economic loss.”
Minister may
treat Convention
as an extradition
arrangement
between  Sri
Lanka and
certain
Convention
States, in respect
of offences in the
Schedule.
Amendment of
Extradition Law,
No.8 of 1977.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Suppression of Terrorist  Bombings
Act, No. 11 of 1999
10. Notwithstanding anything in the Extradition Law,
No.8 of 1977, an offence specified in Part B of the Schedule to
that Law and the Schedule to this Act shall  for the purposes
of that Law, be deemed not  to  be an offence of a political
character or an offence connected with a political offence or
an offence inspired by political motives, for the purposes
only of extradition of any person accused or convicted of any
such offence, as between the Government of  Sri Lanka and
any Convention State or of affording assistance to a
Convention State under section  11.
11. The Government of  Sri Lanka shall afford all such
assistance to, and may through  the Minister request all such
assistance from, a Convention State as may be necessary for
the investigation and prosecution of an offence under section
3 or of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act,
including, where there is an agreement to that effect between
the Government of  Sri Lanka and a Convention State,
assistance relating to the taking of evidence and statements
and the serving of process.
12. The Government of Sri Lanka shall take appropriate
measures to prevent any person or group of persons from
committing or encouraging, instigating, organizing or
knowingly financing the commission of an offence under this
Act, or of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act,
whether in or outside Sri Lanka.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
14. In this Act unless the contest otherwise requires –
“explosive or other lethal device” means :
(a) an explosive or incendiary weapon of device that is
designed or has the capability,  to cause death, serious
bodily injury or substantial material damage; or
Offences under
this Act deemed
not to be political
offences &c., for
the purposes of
the Extradition
Law.
Assistance to
Convention States
Government to
take measures to
prevent offences.
Sinhala Text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Suppression of Terrorist  Bombings
Act, No. 11 of 1999
(b) a weapon or device that is designed, or has the
capability to cause death, serious bodily injury or
substantial material demage through the release,
dissemination or impact of toxic chemicals, biological
agents or toxins or similar substances or radiation or
radioactive material ;
“infrastructure facility” means any publicly or privately owned
facility providing or distributing services for the
benefit of the public, such as water, sewage, energy,
fuel or communications ;
“place of public use” means those parts of any building, land,
street, water way or other location that are accessible
or open to members of the public, whether
continuosly, periodically or occasionally, and
includes any commercial, business, cultural,
historical, educational, religious, governmental,
entertainment, recreational or similar place that is so
accessible  or open to the public ;
“public transportation system” means all facilities,
conveyances and instrumentalities, whether publicly
or privately owned, that are used in or for publicly
available services for the transportation of persons
or cargo;
“State or government facility” includes any permanent or
temporary facility or conveyance that is used or
occupied by representatives of a State, members of
Government, the legislature or  the judiciary or by
officials or employees of the State or any other public
authority or entity or by employees or officials of an
intergovernmental organization, in connection with
their official duties.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Suppression of Terrorist  Bombings
Act, No. 11 of 1999
SCHEDULE        (Sections 6,7,8 and 10)
1 . The unlawful and intentional delivery, placing,
discharge or detonation, of an  explosive or other lethal device,
in, into, or against, a  place of public  use, a  State or
government facility, a public transportation system or an
infrastructure facility with intent —
(a) to cause death or serious bodily injury ;
(b) to cause extensive destruction of such place, facility or
system, where such destruction result in, or is likely to
result in, major economic loss.
2. Attempting to commit an offence referred to in
paragraph (1).
3. Aiding or abetting the commission of an offence
referred to in paragraph (1).
4. Conspiring with another person or group of persons to
commit an offence referred to in paragraph (1).

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of   the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.