

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
555
wxl 1"954 - 2016  fmnrjdß 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2016'02'12
No. 1,954 -  FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY 12,  2016
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices for
publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. All
Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in respect
of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time both from
the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to
actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to noti fication will not be
entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th March, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th February, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter shall  be
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W.  A.  A.  G.  FONSEKA,
Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... —
By-Laws ... 556
Posts - V acant ...       ––
P
AGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
555
N.B.— Part IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,953 of 05.02.2016 was  not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
556
By-Laws
MAWANELLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By -laws
WE Shall notify that the following bylaws are enacted by the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrative authority of
the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, under the power granted by article 122 and article 126 of act No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha Laws
and these by laws are approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragauwa Province under the power granted to him by article
123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
MAHIEPALA HERA TH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
26th November, 2015.
BY-LAWS RELATING TO REGULARIZE, CONTROL AND CHARGE FEES ON THE CREMA TORIUM OF THE MAWANELLA PRADESHIY A SABHA
1. By virtue of powers vested in the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha under Section 126 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act ,No. 15 of 1987,
the By-Laws in this Part are cited as the By-Laws relating to, regularize, Control and Charge fees on the Crematorium of the
Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. ( a) No dead body shall be cremated in any crematorium owned by the Council without a licence issued by the Chairman or an
Authorized Officer.
(b) Unless a Magistrate or an Inquirer in to Sudden Deaths has granted permission to cremate a dead body on completion of an
inquiry made in respect of it by the said Magistrate or the Inquire into Sudden Deaths, under the Criminal Procedure Code Act
No. 15 of 1979, the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall not accept it for cremation or issue a licence to cremate it.
3. ( a) While it is possible to determine by Resolution approved by the Mawanella  Pradeshiya Sabha the charges for the cremation
of a dead body it shall be amended from time to time on such approval of a Resolution.
(b) While charges levied or amended from time to time under paragraph ( a) above shall be published in the Gazette it shall be
prominently displayed at the place where applications are received for booking the crematorium and at the crematorium.
(c) Anybody expecting to cremated dead bodies at the crematorim of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha shall pay the charges set
out in the first schedule of this part for the cremation of dead bodies.
(d) No fee shall be charged for the cremation of a dead body of any Chairman, Vice Chairman, Member or Employee who serves
presently at the Sabha or any Chairman, Vice Chairman or Member who had served previously at the Sabha.
(e) Even though a dead body had been delivered to the crematorim for cremation, the Chairman has the power to bury the dead
body, if the dead body shall be unable to cremate before or during of cremation on electric failure or technical faults of the
machineries of the crematorium.
4. Anybody expecting to obtain a licence mentioned in By-law No. 02 (hereinafter referred to as “the applicant”) shall forward a n
application substantially prepared in accordance with the Second Schedule to this part to gather with the documents mentioned
below to the Chairman or the Authorized Officer.
(a) (1) The National Identity Card of the applicant  or,
(2) The National Identity Card of the deceased  or,
(3) Marriage certificate of the  deceased
(4) The certificate issued by the Grama Niladhari of the Division where the deceased was living.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
557
(b) Occupying the crematorim for deceased following documents are should be forwarded. According to the regulation of law of
death and birth, and the documents are certify by the sudden death inquirer and registrar of death and birth.
(i) B 18 – The Certificate of death inquirer article of e (39 (1) 41 (1)
(ii) B 16 – Certificate of death announcement article of a (41 (1))
(iii) B 20 – The certificate of death registration article of b (42 (1)
(iv) B 22 – The birth Certificate of deceased article of c (43 (1)
5. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer to register the death in the sequence such applications are re ceived
in a Register substantially prepared according to the Fifth Schedule to this part. This Register shall be maintained at the Office of
the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha accepting applications.
6. In the event of accepting any dead body for cremation in accordance with the application forwarded, the applicant shall be issued
with the licence by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer after charging the fees levied according to First Schedule. The time
and the date on which the dead body due to be cremated according to the licence should be handed over to the Crematorium
Keeper shall be clearly specified in the relevant licence.
7. In the event of a dead body being not accepted for cremation due to some reason the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall
take steps to immediately inform the applicant in writing about it, specifying the reasons for such non-acceptance.
8. Dead bodies shall be accepted for cremation and cremations shall be done between the periods 6.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m. on all days
of the week.
9. The dead body shall be handed over to the Crematorium Keeper on or before the time specified in the licence issued. The
Chairman of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha or  the Authorized Officer shall not be subjected to responsibility in respect of any
inconvenience or loss caused to the applicant or anybody else having rights over the deceased due to the failure to handover the
dead body on time.
10. The Crematorium Keeper shall maintain a Register substantially prepared in accordance with the Sixth Schedule to this part, in
regard to each dead body cremated in any crematorium.
11. (a) The applicant or any authorized representative of him shall take possession of the ashes of the body before the elapse of
seventy two hours after the cremation of any dead body.
(b) At the time of reserving the Crematorium to cremate the dead body, a proper container indicating the name and address of the
deceased (with a tied cap) shall be  handed over by the next of kin of the deceased to the Crematorium Keeper to deposit the
ashes of the deceased after cremation.
(c) The ashes of the body shall not be handed over to any person other than the next of kin of the deceased.
(d) However, on a written request made by the applicant the Chairman or the Authorized Officer shall extend the period during
which the ashes are kept with the Crematorim Keeper.
(e) The period of extension for the ashes to be kept in the custody of the Crematorium Keeper under paragraph (b) shall not be
more than two weeks from the date of the cremation.
(f) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer or the Crematorium Keeper shall have the power to dispose of the ashes that had not
been removed even after the expiry of such period allowed for the removal of ashes.
(g) It shall be the duty of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha Chairman or the Authorized Officer to make arrangements to bury the
ashes not removed by any applicant or any authorized representative at the premises of the crematorium or in any cemetary.
(h) The ashes removed from the crematorim shall be inserted to the container handed over according to the provisions of Section
11(b) and the container shall be deposited safely in the section or room reserved for the aforesaid purpose by the Crematorim
Keeper.
12. (a) Nobody other than the Crematorium Keeper or his Assistants shall enter into the covered section of the chamber of the
Crematorium after the closure of the security door of the chamber on introducing the dead body into the chamber of any
crematorium.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
558
(b) Nobody shall enter into the premises of any crematorium without permission from the Chairman,  Authorized Officer or the
Crematorium Keeper.
(c) Notwithstanding anything stated in paragraph (b); -
(i) any other person or persons who participate in the handing over of a dead body for cremation with the person who had
obtained a licence to cremate it or with his authorized representative, and,
(ii) any other  persons who arrive at the crematorium on the specified date or earlier to receive ashes, with the person who had
obtained the licence or with his authorized representative, shall be considered as persons who have been allowed to enter
the premises of the crematorium.
(d) The Chairman shall have the final authority to decide any matter arisen in implementation of these by -laws. Any person who
violates any section in these by laws shall be guilty of an offence and on being convicted by a court of proper jurisdiction shall be
liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 750 and in case of containing the violation by any person even after being convicted by a court,
such person shall be liable to an extra fine not exceeding Rs. 250 per each day of violation.
13. Within the premises of any crematorium nobody shall, -
(a) Act in a manner disrupting peace ;
(b) Damage or try to damage property within the premises of the crematorium belonging to the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha;
(c) Obstruct the official functions of the Crematorium Keeper or any of his Assistants;
(d) Decorate or paste notices within the premises of the crematorium.
(e) In the even of damage being cause to any property, building or equipment of the crematorium by the person reserving the
crematorium, such person shall be agreed to pay the value assessed and ordered by the Chairman.
  14. ( a) It shall be the duty of the Chairman  of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha to maintain and operate the crematorium in conditions
suitable for cremation of dead bodies;
(b) In the event of the closure of any crematorium for the purpose of repairs or maintenance activities it shall be the duty of th e
Chairman of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha to display prominently a notice on it in all the three languages at the Office
issuing licences for cremation of dead bodies and at the entrance to the crematorium premises.
15. In By-laws of this part, unless any other meaning is sought,-
“cremation chamber” means the chamber where the dead body is kept and the outer chamber constructed outside the main
chamber;
“crematorium premise” means the whole crematorium and the land on which it is located;
“crematorium keeper” means any employee appointed by the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha  to be in-charge of the crematorium
and its functions;
“ashes” means any matter left behind after cremating a dead body;
“dead body” means the entire dead body of a deceased person or the dead body of a still born person or any part of a dead body.
“Chairman” means the leader of the specified the area or region.
“Authorized Officer” means anyone to whom the authorities are entrusted duties in writing by the Chairman.
16.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Tamil and English texts of this By-Law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
FIRST SCHEDULE
Fees for use of the Crematorium
   Rs. Cts.
01. To cremate the dead body of a person living in the area
of authority of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha 6,000 0
02. To cremate the dead body of a person living outside the area
of authority of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha 7,000 0

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
559
SECOND SCHEDULE
(To be forwarded two copies in duplicate)
APPLICATION FOR A LICENCE TO CREMATE A DEAD BODY AT THE CREMATORIUM OF MAW ANELLA PRADESHIYA SABHA
01. Full name of the applicant: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
Address: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
Tel. No.: … … … … … … … … …
No. and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: … … … … …
National Identity Card No.:  … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
02.  Full Name of the deceased:  … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
Sex: … … … … …
Address of the residence: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
No. and Name of the Grama Niladhari Division: … … … … …
National Identity Card No.: … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
03. Applicant’s relationship to the deceased:… … … … … … … … … …
(Please annex a certificate stated in paragraph (a) of By-law No. 4 in order to establish the relationship : Those are photo copy of
applicant’s National Identity Card or photo copy of deceased National Identity Card or certificate of residence of deceased certify
by the Grama Niladhari of Division.)
04. Cause of Death: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(Please attach  a certificate stated in paragraph (b) of By-law No. 4)
B 18 - certificate of death inquirer or B16 - certificate of death announcement, B 20 - certificate of death registration, B 22 - birth
certificate of deceased
05. Requirement of date and time for cremation (preference in order):
Date Time Date Time
(i)  20 … … … … … …Clock (ii) 20 … … … … … …Clock
(iii) 20 … … … … … …Clock (iv) 20 … … … … … …Clock
I hereby certify that the information stated above are true and accurate. I further state that I take full responsibility for t he
information given here. Relevant certificates are attached.
… … … … … … … …,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date:  … … … … …
THIRD SCHEDULE
Refusal to issue a licence to cremate a dead body
Mr./Mrs./Miss … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
It is regretted to inform you that the issuing of a licence in accordance with the application overleaf forwarded by you has been refused for
the following reasons:-
(i) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(ii) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(iii) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
(iv) … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
… … … … … … … …
Signature of Chairman/Authorized
Officer,
Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
Date:  … … … … …

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
560
FOURTH   SCHEDULE
Crematorium Keeper,
Crematorium of the Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
Licence issued to Cremate a Dead Body
(a) Permission is hereby granted to cremate the dead body of  … … … … … … … …  at  … … … … … … … …  a.m. / p.m.
on  … … … … … … … … 20  … … … … … … … …  at the  Mawanella Pradeshiaya Sabha  Crematorium.
The information given in the application overleaf has been entered in the Register according to Section No. 6 of these by laws.
(b) A sum of Rs.  … … … … … … … … has been charged through Receipt No.  … … … … … … … …  dated  … … … …
20.… … … …
(c) Please take action to cremate the dead body after making necessary entries in the relevant Register as stated in By-law
No. 10 with reference to information given in this licence.
(d) The Serial Number of the Permit Register is  … … … … … … … …
 … … … … … … … …
Signature of the Chairman/Authorized Officer,
Mawanella Pradeshiya Sabha.
Date:   … … … … … … … …
FIFTH  SCHEDULE
REGISTER OF LICENCES ISSUED TO CREMA TE DEAD BODIES AT THE CREMATORIUM OF THE MAWANELLA PRADESHIYA SABHA
1
2
3
4
5
Permission
Date of Cremation
Paid Date
Name and Address of
Deceased
Receipt No.
Amount
N. I. C. No.
Applicant’s  Tel. No.
Name and Address of the
Applicant
Date
Serial No.
Time

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
561
SIXTH  SCHEDULE
REGISTRATION OF DEAD BODY AT THE CREMATORIUM OF MAWANELLA PRADESHIYA SABHA
(MAINTAINED BY CREMATORIUM KEEPER)
Date
Name & Address of
Deceased
Serial No.
Time
Date of Took away
the Ash
Serial No. of Permission
Document Book
Male/ Female
1
2
3
4
5
Cremation held
02-300
RUWANWELLA PRADESHIYA SABHA
By Laws
WE shall notify that the following by-laws are enacted by the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrative Authority
of the Sabaragauwa Provincial Council, under the power granted by article 122 and article 126 of Act No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha Laws,
and these by laws are approved by the Minister of Local Goverment of the Sabaragamuwa Province under the power granted to him by article
123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
MAHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
26th November, 2015.
BY-LAWS  RELATING  TO  CEMETERIES
1. The by-laws in this part are cited as the by-laws relating to burial, entombment, regularizing, control and supervision of dead bodies at
public cemeteries within the area of authority of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. Anybody who expects to obtain a licence to make use of any cemetery owned by the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha shall forward an
application substantially prepared in accordance with the specimen given in the first schedule of the by-laws in this part.
3. Unless a Magistrate or an Inquirer in to Sudden Deaths has granted permission to cremate a dead body on completion of an inquiry made
in respect of it by the said Magistrate or the Inquirer into Sudden Deaths, under the Criminal Procedure Code Act, No. 15 of 1979, the
Chairman or the Authorized Officer of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha shall not accept it for cremation or issue a licence to cremate it.
4. Unless following conditions have been fulfilled, the Chairman shall not issue a licence to a person who forwards an application as indicated
in by law No. 2 of this part, for the use any cemetery of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
(a) Any application to obtain a licence for the use of a cemetery shall be registered in the sequence such applications are received to
the Office of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha and it shall be considered for burial or entombment.
(b) A licence shall be issued only after payment of due fees and cash deposit decided time to time by the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya
Sabha according to the model cycle of fees set out in the Second Schedule in this part for reserving the cemetery.
5. Any applicaiton for reserving a cemetery shall be forwarded at least 24 hours prior to the date on which the cemetery is to be reserved.
Such requests made by any person can be forwarded at any time two days prior to the date on which the cemetery is to be reserved and
reserving of the cemetery as per such request shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the By-law No.12 of this part.
6. In the event of a request being made to cancel the reservation, even though the reservation can be cancelled, the cash deposi ted for
reserving the cemetery shall not be refunded and it shall be illegal.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
562
7. Any cemetery reserved by any person shall not be used for any other purpose other than that for which it was reserved.
8. A permit issued in respect of reserving a cemetery shall not be transferred on any ground to any other person.
9. In the event of a request being not allowed for reserving a cemetery, it shall be the duty of the Chairman to immediately inf orm the
applicant in writing thereon on the same day, specifying the reasons for  such non-acceptance.
10. In the event of the necessity to get the date of reservation of any cemetery for a burial or an entombment changed or to get the burial or
entombment in a cemetery changed, applicant shall forward a written request in this regard to the Chairman. The amendment of the date
of reservation made according to such request shall be subject to provisions in by-laws Nos. 2 and 3.
11. Any number of dead bodies can be buried or entombed in a cemetery of the Pradeshiya Sabha in a day.
12. Only any money left behind after deducting -
(a) the cost of any damage caused to the cemetery or any section thereof, in the event of such damages being caused and
(b) the fees that shall be paid on behalf of the extra period of time the cemetery was utilized.
shall be paid back to the applicant, out of the deposit money deposited at the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha, after a burial or an
entombment of a dead body in a cemetery of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
13. While nobody shall damage or let anybody else damage  a cemetery owned by the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha, action shall not be
taken to lead cattle, pigs, horses, ponies, asses or dogs into the cemetery. Furthermore, action shall not be taken to enter any vehicle into
any cemetery without obtaining permission from the Chairman of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
14. Any dead body disposed by any government hospital in the limit of Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha and unclaimed by any owner or
guardian shall be buried in any cemetery of the Ruawanwella Pradeshiya Sabha at a cost of the Sabha.
15. Any dead body of a person suffered from poverty in the limit of Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha can be buried free of any charge in any
cemetery of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha upon letters submitted by the Divisional Secretary, Ruwanwella proving the poverty of the
diseased person.
16. (a) While it is possible to detemine by resolution approved by the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha the charges for a burial or a entombment
of a dead body, it shall be amended from time to time on such approval of a resolution.
(b) While charges levied or amened  from time to time under paragraph  (a) above shall be published in the Gazette, it shall be
prominently displayed at the place where applications are received for booking the cemetery and at the place where dead bodies
are deposited at the cemetery.
17. Violation or noncompliance of any section of these by-laws shall be an offence and any person who violates any section in these by laws
shall be guilty of an offence and on being convicted by a court of proper jurisdiction shall be liable to a fine set out in the section  122(2) of
the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of 1987 and in case of continuing the violation by any person even after being convicted by a court and
being notified in writing by the Chairman or Secretary of the Pradeshiya Sabha or any other Officer authorized by the Chairman considering
the violation, such person shall be liable to an extra fine set out in the section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 for each
day of violation.
18. The Chairman shall have the final authority to decide any matter arisen in implementation of these by-laws.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between texts of by-laws in this part, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
20. For the purposes of these by-laws, the term “Pradeshiya Sabha” means Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha, the term “Chairman” means the
Chairman of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha, the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha, the
term “Authorized Officers” means any officer of the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman of the Ruwanwella
Pradeshiya Sabha, the term “Grama Niladhari” means any Grama Niladhari attached to Divisional Secretariat, the term “Police Officer”
means any Police Officer attached to the Department of Police.
First Schedule
APPLICATION  FOR  A  LICENCE  TO  USE  THE  ............... PUBLIC  CEMETERY  OF  THE  RUWANWELLA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
01. Full name of the applicant: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
Address: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
National Identity Card No.: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … …

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
563
02.  Full Name of the deceased: - … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
03. Date of Birth :… … … … …  Year : … … …    Month : … … …     Date:… … …      Age:… … …
04. Permanent Address : … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
05. Name of the Grame Niladhari Division: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
06. Applicant’s relationship to the deceased: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
07. Registration No. and Date of the Death Certificate : … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
08. Name and Division of the Regiatrar of Deaths:  … … … … …
09. Cause of Death : … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
10. Date and time applied for the burial/entombment: … … … … … … … … … … … … … … …
I. Date: … … … … … … …
II. Time : … … … … … … …
I hereby certify that the above information is true and accurate. In the event of the allocation of the relevant cemetery as a result
of this request, I agree that the Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha shall deduct the cost of any damages caused to the buildings, constructions
and trees of the cemetery, if and when such damage is caused. Meanwhile, in the event of the said deposit being not sufficient to affect such
recoveries, I agree to pay any further amount of money require in this respect. Moreover, I agree to obey the provisions in By-laws relating
to burial, entombment, regularizing, control and supervision of dead bodies at the public cemeteries within the area of authori ty of the
Ruwanwella Pradeshiya Sabha.
........................
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :  ..................................
Second Schedule
SCHEDULE OF THE PARAGRAPH 4 (b)
Cycle of fees charged for reservation of the cemeteries
Serial  No. Name of the Cemetery Fee for a Security
burial Deposit
(Rs.) (Rs.)
01. Meepitiyaovita (Yatanwala Cemetery) 25.00 100.00
02. Walauwatta Nagovita upper section (Karaudeniya Cemetery) 25.00 100.00
03. Medagoda Cemetery 25.00 100.00
04. Getamurutha Cemetery 25.00 100.00
05. Gonagala-Halielagawa Cemetery 25.00 100.00
06. Pethangoda Cemetery 25.00 100.00
07. Erepolamulla Cemetery 25.00 100.00
08. Dannoruwa Cemetery 25.00 100.00
09. Batuwita Cemetery 25.00 100.00
10. Daluwalana Cemetery 25.00 100.00
11. Puranpoththa Cemetery 25.00 100.00
12. Indurana Cemetery 25.00 100.00
13. Wahakula Cemetery 25.00 100.00
14. Bangaliwatta Cemetery 25.00 100.00
15. Niwunhella Viharakanda Cemetery 25.00 100.00
02-301

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
564
DERANIYAGALA PRADESHIYA SABHA
By - Laws
WE shall notify that the following by-laws are enacted by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrati ve
Authority of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, under the power granted by article 122 and article 126 of Act, No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya
Sabha Laws, and these by laws are approved by the Minister of Local Goverment of the Sabaragamuwa Province under the power granted
to him by article 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
MAHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
26th November, 2015.
DERANIYAGALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-Law on the Maintenance of Weekly Fair
1. This By-law is known as the By-law of regulating, supervising controlling and administrating of the weekly fair in the authoritative area
of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. The orders mentioned below should be followed by the Pradeshiya Sabha of Deraniyagala for the maintenance of any weekly fair built
by the Sabha.
I. All the buildings in the fair should be constructed permanently with bricks or permanent building materials like cement blocks. The
floor of all the buildings should be concreted and they should be at one meter in height.
II. Roofs should be covered with any permanent thatching material.
III. There should be a spac e of two meters (2m) between the rows of boutiques inside the fair which would enable the consumers to
use as the pavement and it should be built with a permanent building material, and there should be a well planned drainage system
in which the rain water can be drained well so as not to hinder the mobilization of the comsumers.
IV. Each and every shelf built inside the weekly fair should be a slab of concrete or a non-rusting metal plate on a wall built with bricks
or   cement blocks or laterite. However, if the shelf is a concrete slab it should be plastered and polished with cement or tiled. In
any circumstance that the above mentioned procedure is failed, flat blocks built with bricks or cement blocks or laterite and
plastered with cement, should be built on the earth and each block should be separated with yellow lines.
V. Gutters should be fixed to every roof and sufficient down pipes should be fixed to bring down water collected in roofs.
VI. If water to be used in the fair stored, there should be facilities to store water safely.
VII. Sufficient number of lavatories and toilets should be built separately for men and women and for the disabled persons lavatories
and toilets with special facilities. In every lavatory the floor and the walls should be tiled to the height of one meter (1m) from the
level of the floor.
VIII. The pavement between two buildings which would enable the consumers to move, should be covered with a roof to protect them
from rain and sun and the water oozing from the roof should be directed to a system of drains built properly.
IX. It is lawful to run a canteen or  a tea, coffee shop within the weekly fair which is built according to a plan approved by t he
Pradeshiya Sabha.
X. It is the duty of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha to suppy electricity, to every shop within the fair.
XI. It is the duty of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha to avail facilities for fulfilling the religious needs within the premises of the
weekly fair.
XII. W ater taps for the public should be fixed within the premises of the fair.
XIII. There should be a separate place to wash vegetables or fruits and it is strictly restricted using water taps fixed in the toilets or
water taps fixed for drinking water for above mentioned purposes.
XIV . A Proper drainage system should be constructed for the flow of rain water falls directly to the premises of the fair, rain water
pouring from the roof and water coming from the reserved place for washing vegetables and fruits.
XV . It is the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to separate the shops in the weekly fair into blocks for the sale of meat, fish, drie d fish,
vegetables, fruits, grocery and other items according to the location of the blocks and also indication of those blocks by sign boards.

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
565
XVI. The wastes generated in the premises,
(i) Biodegradable rubbish ;
(ii) Glass ;
(iii) Paper or paper related materials ;
(iv) Polythene, plastic or materials related to polythene and plastic and rigifoam ;
(v) Iron and other metallic materials or iron combined parts;
(vi) Dangerous wastes ;
should be collected separately in buggies or vessels or tanks and they should be kept in a separate place in the fair. Buggies, vessels or tanks
kept for the collection  of biodegradable wastes should be covered with lids in order to stop entering mice, flies,  other insects or any bird or
to have a regular disposal system of garbage collected in the premises.
3. (i) Whole garbage generated in the market premises or near by or on the stall or nearby should be sorted as -
(i) Biodegradable waste ;
(ii) Glass ;
(iii) Paper or paper related materials ;
(iv) Polythene and plastics or materials related to polythene and plastic and rigifoam ;
(v) Iron and other metallic materials or iron combined parts;
(vi) Dangerous wastes ;
and should put into separate buggies or vessels or tanks by the vendors who sells goods in any market place in the fair or mobile
vendors who move in the premises, approved by a ticket. Besides, it is the responsibility of above mentioned vendors to dispose
garbage according to a system that has been introduced by the Sabha.
(ii) Other than the particular waste no individual should put any other waste into a vessel, a buggy or a tank, allotted for it;
(ii) Under the XVI schedule of the 2nd By-law the lid of the buggy, the vesel or the tank allotted for biodegradable wastes should be
kept closed often, except in occasions when the waste is put into those containers and when the waste is taken out.
4. (i) The space allotted for business in any weekly fair means the boundaries decided by the sabha.
(ii) It is not permissible to keep any material, thing, an equipment or any other thing used for business, outside the space allotted for
business, mentioned in 4-1 except in occasions when above mentioned things or equipments are taken into the fair and when those
things or equipments are taken out the fair.
(iii) It is not permissible to do business other than in  the premises allotted and in the places allowed to engage in mobile business and
they should not engage in any activity that obstructs the pavement travellers.
5. It is not permissible to cook in any place within the premises of fair by any individual except in a place mentioned in 2. IX Schedule.
6. In any weekly fair belongs to Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha :
I. Behaving rudely or making troubles or using drugs and alocohol or using vulgar words or begging inside the fair,
II. Retaining within the premises after closing the weekly fair at the end of the day to day activities,
III. Damaging, distorting or disfiguring a building a construction or a fixation or any flower plant grown for embellishment or a sign
board or any other thing,
IV . Polluting the water supplied for use or wasting or letting water to waste in vain or wasting any other way or bathing or washing
clothes or animals and washing vegetables or fruits other than in the allotted place for washing vegetables and fruits,
V. Keeping goods which will block the way to the main switch for damaging the main switch,
VI. Getting a water supply deceitfully from the main pipe or any other water pipe,
VII. Selling or makig someone to sell vegetables, meat or fish of any variety out of the allotted place for those businesses.
VIII. Bringing bicycles, motor cycles or motor cars or allowing anyone to bring them to the places other than vehicle parks arranged
within the premises of the fair, should not do by any person.
7. I. person who is suffering or suffered recently from a contagious, contact or skin disease or any person who attended a person
suffered from such disease unless the incubation period has passed, should not engage in business in any manner or should not be
an asistant of the business holder or should  not be allowed to engage in any activity within the fair.

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
566
II. Unless any person who has worn clothes washed and cleaned should not or should not be allowed to engage in any type of
business.
8. It is the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to clean the premises of the weekly fair before and after the day of fair, completely.
9. Vendors who sell vegetables, fruits, meat, fish , dried fish or any other food stuffs or beverages, should clean their market premises
or the slab, occassionally by washing or scratching.
10. Except the particular goods or commodity allotted by the Pradeshiya Sabha for each block, other goods or commodities should not be
sold or exhibited for sale by any person.
11. Except the flesh of any animal killed in a licensed  slaughter house under the act of cattle slaughter other flesh should not be sold or
exhibited for sale in a meat shop in the fair by any person.
12. If slaughtering of animals has banned by a Gazette notification ordered by a competent authority in any slaughter house in a
particular day, under the 17th schedule of the Cattle Slaughtering Act, keeping flesh for sale or exhibition of flesh for sale or stocking
should not be done by any person.
13. Bringing or permitting to bring dogs or any other animals or birds by anybody to the premises of the fair is not allowed. It should not
be realized above mentioned order as a preventing order for a police officer to bring a sniffer dog for an investigation into t he
premises of weekly fair.
14. When the fair is kept closed after business is over and a vendor leaves after closing his stall, all electric bulbs, fans and other electric
appliances should be put off.
15. Candles and oil lamps should not be lighted in any place in the premises of the weekly fair for religious purposes, except in the place
facilitated for religious purposes, mentioned in the 2. (XI) schedule.
16. It is the duty of the chairman to make arrangements for washing toilets and lavatories at least thrice a day using disinfectants and for
washing all the drains twice a day, on fair days.
17. It is the duty of the chairman to make arrangements to remove garbage collected in buggies, vessels or tanks at least once o n a fair
day or if it is necessary more than one, from the premises of the fair, according to XVI Schedule of the 2nd By-law.
18. Any person who has got license under the 23rd By-law to use a particular place within the weekly fair, should not alienate his license
or should not engage in business in another place other than allotted place for him any if such situation is detected by the authorized
officer or the Chairman, he should have power to direct the vender to the correct place for business or to expel him from the f air
averting from business on the particular day or cancel the license.
19. Any person who has got a license to use a market place within the fair, according to agreement signed by him with the Prades hiya
Sabha, should not create room for any other person for business or to use as a show-room or for any other business in his boutique
or in a portion of his boutique.
20. Any construction or fixation or change or an enclosure that damage or change the original plan of a business premises should  be
avoided, unless getting the pre-approval for it from the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
21. The days and times in which the fair should be kept open can be decided by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha, intermittently. It is
the duty of the chairman to have a notice board put up near the entrance of the fare, showing the decided days and times in thr ee
languages.
22. Any person engage in business within the fair should have gained a liense prepared according to the Sub-schedule No. 01 of t his
By-law. It is lawful to change or to revise the charges intermittently.
23. No one can use business premises in the fair if it is not agreeable with the orders and conditions of the agreement signed b y the
Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha regarding the allotment of business premises.
24. Any person engage in business in the weekly fair should sign an agreement regarding the allotment of business premises, with  the
Pradeshiya Sabha and should act according to the orders and conditions of the agreement.
25. Whatever it has mentioned in the 24th By-law, it is lawful to consider as a selected vendor who engage in the particular business in
any weekly fair owned by the Sabha mentioned in the latest agreement signed with the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha from the date
it is reinforced. Furthermore a person, who engages in any business relevant to this by-law, should sign a new agreement within three
months according to the 24th Schedule of this By-Law.

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
567
   26. (i) An agreement signed under the terms of 24th and 25th By-laws of Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha is valid for only one year and
before one month of the expiry date of the previous agreement a new agreement should be signed for the forth coming year, and
it is lawful to allot a business for one year. In that manner the preson who signed the agreement should have right to use the
business premises by extending the agreed period for a successive year.
(ii) However according to the section 26(I) a person who under go the agreement should pay the daily license fee for the successive
year after getting extended the agreed period, to use the so called business premises according to the 3rd sub-schedule of this By-
Law.
27. Unless the agreed period for the successive year under the 30th By-Law has been extended, before one month has passed from t he
expiry date of an agreement for any business premises first partner of the agreement (vendor) will not be allowed to use it, after the
final day of the transition month.
28. According to the agreement regarding the allotment of business premises it is unlawful to engage in business by another person other
than the second party of the agreement and if it is detected another person running the business, the agreement could be canceleld
and any loss or damage occurred to the second party of the agreement, due to acquirement of the relevant business premises, has to
bear. The Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha or the chairman or the Secretary or the authorised officer is not subjected to take
responsibility of the loss or the damage.
29. When the agreement is signed for the allotment of the business premises it is lawful to charge the full amount decided by the general
meeting of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha, intermittently.
30. (i) License fee for each day mentioned in the sub schedule No. 03 for any business premises in the weekly fair should be paid  by
the Second party of the agreement. When it is required by the revenue officer or an authorized officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha
to pay a license fee from any person who engage in business refuses to do so it is lawful him to be expelled from the fair
considering him as a non-permitted vendor.
(ii) A vendor who comes to the weekly fair for the first time can get a license for the day without signing an agreement and use a
business premises, but by the next weekly fair day, he should make arrangements to get allotted a business premises, lawfully.
(iii) Any dispute arises among the licensee holders issued under section 30(i) or among their authorized workers or among the public
in the weekly fair premises regarding the usage of market can be settled by the chairman or by any authorized officer who is on
duty in the fair premises.
(iv) Peace in the weekly fair premises should be maintained by the officer in duty within the weekly fair.
(v) Every consumer or vendor who comes to the weekly fair should obey the lawful orders given by an officer of the Pradeshiya
Sabha or a police officer to maintain the peace and to settle a dispute.
(vi) If any food item kept in the fair premises for sale is found to be unsuitable for human consumption it is lawful to ban that item
after a test by the chairman or a government medical officer or a public health officer authorized by the chairman.
(vii) If any food item banned under the section (vi) approved by a government medical officer, unsuitable for consumption can be
destroyed without paying a compensation to the owner of the food item.
(viii) Enclosing a portion of the business premises received, stretching a screen or building a roof or making a temporary or permanent
change in the business premises or near by should not be done without a written premission of the chairman.
(ix) Except the goods belong to the Sabha such as a box, a table, a chair or an equipment of that category should not bring or be kept
inside the business premises or near by and should avoid making huts or fixing other equipments.
31. Getting electricity from an electric circuit wired for public use or getting a water supply from a public water tap is not a llowed and
letting for such things should not be done.
32. An authorized officer can be appointed by the secretary to issue licenses and to collect cash for licenses from the persons who want
to use or manipulate the market places within the weekly fair. Cash collected by him should be deposited to the common fund of the
Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha before 3.00 p. m. on the same day, if it failed on any day it should be deposited on the followin g
working day.

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
568
33. According to the 32nd By-law if the secretary is unable to appoint on authorized person, to issue licenses and to collect cash from the
persons who use boutiques and shelves in the weekly fair, Pradeshiya Sabha should have the authority to appoint a person (called as
the money collector) by calling tenders.
34. The person selected as the money collector by calling tenders, is valid only for the particular year, and tender should be called again
to appiont a money collector for the sussessive year. However it should not understand that a person appointed as the money
collector for the pervious year, has no right to forward tender applications for the successive year, and if the Sabha decides to accept
the application the rithe to be appointed as the money collector for the successive year, is not averted by this By-law.
35. (i) When a money collector is selected under the 33rd By-law he should,
(a) Deposit a refundable and non-refundable security decided by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha by the time tender are
caleld.
(b) sign an agreement with the Deraniyagla Pradeshiya Sabha regarding the issue of licenses and collection of charges.
(c) deposit a security in the Sabha, an equal amount of 3 folds of monthly rent, which is agreed by the agreement signed, under
the Section (b)
(ii) Unless the requirements in Section 35(i) completed any person should not be allowed to issue licenses or to collect cash for them  in
any weekly fair conducted by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
36. More than the amount decied by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha under the 22nd By-law should not be collected by any money
collector from any person who use or manipulate the market places in any weekly fair.
37. In the agreement, signed by the Pradeshiya Sabha with any money collector according to the order in the Section (b) in the B y-law
35(1),
(i) methods of issuing licensed to use business places,
(ii) the way of collecting fees for licenses and the maximum amount that can be collected.
(iii) total amount of money payable to Pradeshiya Sabha by the money collector for the year of agreement.
(iv) necessity of paying the above mentioned amount per year in equalt 12 installements and the amount of one installment,
(v) the date in which the amount payable to the Pradeshiya Sabha each month
(vi) if the money collector neglects to pay monthly payments on the due date necessity to pay 10% of that amount as a fine.
(vii) necessity to deposit a security, equal to three folds of monthly rent, by the money collector.
Should be mentioned as conditions and it is the duty of the Pradeshiya Sabha to enter those conditions.
38. (i) It is the duty of the secretary to send a notice of demand to the money collector, asking him to pay the deficit and the
overdue charges, when the monthly payment in neglected and the deficit exceeds more than two month's payments.
(ii) When the money collector fails to pay the deficit and the over due charges within seven days of the notice the agreement
signed by the Pradeshiya Sabha with the money collector will be cancelled and the cancellation is lawful. As well as it is
the duty of the secretary to send notice to the money collector informing the cancellation of the agreement on the same
day.
(iii) After the date of cancellation according to the section 38(i) the money collector being one of the partners of the agreement
should not issue licenses to any person to use and manipulate a market place or collect money for a license.
(iv) It is the duty of the secretary to appoint an authorized officer to issue license and to collect money from the date of
cancellation of the agreement according to the section 38(ii) of the By-law. If the secretary considers that the authorized
officer cannot continue that duty he has to inform his view to the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha through the chairman to
act according to the 34
th By-law. When the secretary's view has been reported to the Sabha, Deraniyagala Pradeshiya
Sabha can take decisions, according to the 34th By-law. If it would not happen an officer authorized by the chairman is able
to collect money for licenses from the vendors who engage in business in the weekly fair and it is lawful.
39. The date and the time in which any fair is held should be mentioned in a notice or notices in three languages and should mak e
arrangements to exhibit the notice or notices near the entrance to the fair.
40. It is lawful to buy a sample of any food item, kept for sale, paying its due price, by the chairman or authorized officer, besides no one
should refuse or obstruct to that purchasing.
41. Appropriate time for supervision of the orders of the By-law of this part by the chairman or an authorized officer, means an y time
that the weekly fair is kept open for business.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
569
42. It is an offence to contravene any Schedule of this By-law. When any person declared a culprit by a courts of law and accord ing to
the Section 122(2) of the “Pradeshiya Sabha Act”, No. 15, 1987 declared a culprit by imposing a fine, if the guilt is continual ly
repeated further more, even after the chairman or the secretary or any other authorized officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha handing
over a written notice for each day the same guilt is repeated under the section 122(2) of the Pradeshiya Sbha Act No.l5, 1987 he/she
is subjected to an additional fine.
43. Except it is needed another meaning for the terms in the By-laws,
(a) “Weekly fair” denotes a place built and maintained by the Pradeshiya Sabha with premises built to engage in business and
places to sell vegetables, fruits or another items or goods which are produced in home or in the home garden and also a place
for buying and selling any production, wholesale.
(b) “Second party” means a person who runs a business in the premises of weekly fair with an agreement signed with the
Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
(c) “Business premises” or “business place” means any place separated or business  by drawmg lines on the floor Inside the
buildings in a weekly fair.
Sub Schedule - 01
Agreement for the leasing of business places of the weekly fair
This is  the agreement signed on the (date).................................... of (month) ...................................i n the year of ...................................
at the office of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha, between the chairman of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter known as the
chairman) Mr./Mrs. ......................................................................and the secretary of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha (hereinafter
known as the secretary) MrlMrs....................................................................and including the persons who  appear and act on behalf of
the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha the chairman and the secretary for one party and ...........................................( hereinafter known as
the 2
nd party) who resides in ...........................................( address), for the other party.
Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha agrees to lease the business place bearing block No . ...........................................  of the weekly
fair situated at ...........................................and belongs to Pradeshiya Sabha for running a business and it’s ownership, under the detailed
conditions given below.
This agreement is signed between the lessor Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha and the second party under the rules and conditions given
below. Rupees ........................................of Sri Lankan currency is payable to the leasing party Deraniyagala Prade shiya Sabha by the 2nd
party and then he gets the ownership to run the business for a period of one year from ........................................to ........................................
under the rules, conditions, By-laws and decisions taken by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha intermittently. Both parties of the agreement
regarding the business place bound to this agreement accepting and promising to follow conditions and responsibilities as follows.
Conditions
(1) As the 2 nd party I ........................................agree to run the business from ........................................to .... ....................................
In the block No ........................................ of the weekly fair, which was classified and numbered according to a p lan decided by
the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha.
(2) As the second party I ........................................agree to pay a non refundable charge of Rs ................... .....................to the
Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha as a charge for the allotment of the business place.
(3) Daily ticket fee for the business place in the block No ........................................should be paid to the Prades hiya Sabha for each
and every day engage in business unless the agreement is cancelled, owing to contravention of the conditions of the agreement
under the powers assigned to the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha or according to the wish of the 2 nd party.
(4) Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha has powers to revise daily ticket fee or the non-refundable fee charged for the allotment at business
places, annually or in any occasion according to the wish of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
(5) Deraniyagala Pradeshiya sabha will take action to expel any vendor, who engages in business without paying daily ticket fee.

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
570
(6) The second party should not engage in any other work other than the business or the business work allowed to him.
(7) Second party is able to cancel the agreement after one month's prior notice and in such situation the second party has no an y right
to ask for any money paid to the Sabha up to the date of cancellation. Non-refundable fee charged for the allotment of the business
place should not influence or be a hindrance for the cancellation of the agreement and the second party has no right to ask for  a
refund.
(8) Any damage should not be done by the second party of the agreement or his representative or his workers carelessly or purpos ely
to the properties of the Pradeshiya Sabha, such as electric equipments, water equipments, steel meshes, doors and windows that are
fixed in the business places or out side, for the use of the person of the second party of the agreement. Further any damage to the
properties of the Saba should not be done when the 2 nd party removes his equipments, after the cancellation of the agreement,
furthermore, when the 2nd party removes his equipments there should not be an opportunity to happen any type at damage due to the
carelessness, and if any damage is occurred, officers of the Pradeshiya Sabha will estimate the damage and as soon as the lesse e
is informed he must pay the estimated value to the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha. The Sabha has no any responsibility regarding
the damages occur to the goods and equipments of the second party.
(9) The 2
nd party of the agreement should not sell, transfer and by-lease a portion of the business place or leave the business place
without the permission of the Sabba and also the 2nd party should not sell, transfer, turn in to a joint business or pawn the business or
a part- of the business.
(10) The second party of the agreement should allow the chairmen or authorized officers and workers of the Pradeshiya Sabha to enter
the business premises and he must supply all facilities for them.
(11) The second party should not make any type of changes in the business place or in any part of the weekly fair and he should not make
permanent or temporary fixations and weldings without the written pre-approval of the chairmen.
(12) All equipments and vessels that the officers of the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Sabha consider for fixation, to keep the business
premises in a clean and sanitary condition should have been supplied to the business premises.
(13)  It should not be thrown or get unloaded any material in order to block drainage system or garbage ditches or basins or other vessels
by the second party.
(14) Garbage or any other materials should not be thrown or dumped here and there except in the proper place.
(15) Advertisements or notices should not be pasted or fixed inside or outside of the pillars or walls in the business place. If there are any
sign boards or exhibition boards they should be pasted and exhibited only on the places approved by chairman according to the
approved way.
(16) Any equipments or items should not be kept on the roof of the business place.
(17) Materials and equipments of any type should not be stored or dumped exceeding the boundaries of the business place. Goods and
equipments transported by the vehicles should be removed immediately.
(18) V ehicles that transport goods or materials to a business place should not be parked or let to be parked in the weekly fair grounds,
exceeding the period necessary and reasonable.
(19) The premises of the weekly fair are opened from 3p.m., on the previous day of the fair and till 9.00 a.m. on the following day of the
fair. Second party or their servants are not allowed to stay in the business place or in the building of the business premises, except
in the above mentioned period of time.
(20)  When the second party and/or his workers doubted to be suffering from a contagions disease, he must face for a medical test or
make his worker faced for a medical test when an authorized officer asked for medical reports, and he must submit them soon
 When
the second party is suffering from a contagious disease or a bad disease he or the  worker should not take part in any-work and
make the worker take part in any w
ork.
(21) It is prohibited the sale of narcotics or liquor or drinking of such things or engage in any illegal activity or let anyone to do those
activities or behave drunk or engage in gambling within the boutique, or let anyone to do so. Further no one should be allowed to do
illegal things within the boutique.

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
571
(22) Conditions included in this agreement and By-laws regarding the weekly fair imposed by the Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Saba and the
By-laws that may be imposed in future, should not be violated and the conditions and the rules found to be violated by the second
party or his representatives and workers, this agreements will be cancelled and lessee's ownership will be cancelled and the
business place will be acquired.
(23)  If the lessee died while the agreement for the boutique is effective, Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Saba has full authority to cancel the
agreement. When the lessee died savings balance of the lessee will be paid to the administrator or the executor or the legal heirs,
after deducting any money due to be charged from the security. After depositing the security in cash and after entering the consent
to the agreement if the died lessee's husband/wife/ a child applied to run the business in the relevant business place, Deraniyagala
Pradeshiya Sabha has authority to give the permission, for that.
(24) If any dispute or contradiction occurs between the parties signed this agreement it should be informed to the secretary of the
ministry of Local Government and further as mention hereinafter if none of the both parties has requested for the judgment to settle
the problem, secretary’s decision will be the final. But if an appeal was made by any party within seven days of the secretary’ s
decision, an officer will be appointed to inquire into the dispute and to give a decision. The Arbitration ACT No.11 of 1995 will be
followed in this case. Either in the side of Law or in the side of the dispute judgment will be the final judgment of the above
mentioned, appointed officer. Both parties should accept that judgment or the decision.
On the ........................................of the month ........................................ of year .................. ......................the signature was
put by the second party in the presence of witnesses mentioned below.
................................ ................................ ................................
Chairman Secretary Second Party
Deraniyagala Deraniyagala
Pradeshiya Sabha Pradeshiya Sabha
Witnesses :
1. Signature : .......................................
ID No. :.......................................
Name & the Address : ..............................................................................
..............................................................................
2. Signature : .......................................
ID No. :.......................................
Name & the Address : ..............................................................................
..............................................................................
Sub Schedule -02
Ticket for charging fees
Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Saba
Ticket for the use of a business place/ business stall at the weekly Sunday fair of Deraniyagala Pradeshiya Saba.
Name : ..............................................................................
          (Name of the person who use the business place/ business stall)
ID No. :.......................................
Stall /Business Place No.:.......................................
Type of the Business : .......................................
Fees charged : .......................................
....................................... .......................................
Date of Issue Signature of the issuing officer.

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
572
Sub Schedule -03
Table of fees
Type of the business place               Fee per day
For allotted premises (permanent boutiques)
• Boutique No. 01-04, 29-97, 114-151 and 182-240,
according to the weekly fair plan. Rs.200.00
• Boutique No. 05-10, 19-28, 98-113, 152-181 and 211-245
according to the plan. Rs. 100.00
• Canteen Rs.250.00
Mobile Business
• Mobile Business (Vehicles) Rs.100.00
• Mobile Business.(Persons) Rs.30.00
Pavement Business
• Fish Stalls Rs.250.00
• Pavement Business Rs.50.00
02-302
IMBULPE  PRADESHIYA SABHA
By- laws
WE shall notify that the following by laws are enacted by the Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha which comes within the administrative authority of the
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, under the power granted by article 122 and article 126 of Act No. 15 of 1987 Pradeshiya Sabha laws, and
these by laws are approved by the Minister of Local Government of the Sabaragamuwa Province under the power granted to him by article 123
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
MAHIEPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
26th November, 2015.
The By law of Regulation maintaining and organizing of Libraries of Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha.
1. This by law for regulating of Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabhawa.
2. This by law enacted to make relevant provisions such as education, Development to develop the Reading, develop the personal discipline
and personality, and fulfill credited and recreational area of authority of the Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. The library of Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha may consist of the following sections.
(i) Lending  Section
(ii) Reference Section
(iii) Children Section
(iv) News papers and periodical Section
(v) Special collection and local collection section
(vi) Community information service
(vii) Photocopy service
(viii) Audio visual and information technology service
(ix) Internet service
(x) E-Library
4. There should be a librarian for the Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha that appointee must be responsible for organization and maintenance of the
management of the librarian maintenance of the management of the librarian.

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
573
5. For the general administration and supervision. (should be appointed the adversary board) (Here after in librarian adversary board)
i. Public Board should be appointed annually. It should be consist of following persons.
A. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha
B. Not less than three  members elected from the saba members.
C. At least one representative person from each religious that residents of the area of I. P.S.
D. Less than three representatives persons that living within the area selected by the I. P.S.
E. Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha
F. Community Development  officer
G . Librarian
H. The Principal in school in area of the authority
I. A person of a community board.
ii. The chairman should be the exofficio chairman of the committee Every person meeting should be presided by him. In the
absence of the chairman an any meeting some other person who was elected by the comity should be presided the meeting.
iii. The secretary should be the convener ex officio.
iv. The member preside over at any meeting shall have one primary vote, and when casting vote when there is an equal number
of votes for and against and there is an any decision.
6. Obtain membership
Every person who expects the library services should pay a charge determined by the saba on resolution and adoption from time and apply
for membership through an application obtained from the librarian and application should be attesed and that application should be attested
by a person mentioned below.
a. Grama Niladhari
b. Justice of Peace
c. A member of Pradeshiya Sabha
d. Staff office of Public service or government
e. If school applicant, principal or class teacher.
II. the qualification for the membership :
a. A payment resident of the area or land owner of their area
b. If a child should be leaving in a school within the area.
III. Member fee
a. A fee of Rs. 100 for adult. This should be renewed by paying 25/- once in one year.
b. A fee of Rs 50 for child. This should be renewed by paying 25/-
IV . a. For general members should be signed by permanent resident of this area.
 b. For child members should be signed by Mother/Father bearer.
 c. For Government workers should be signed by Permanent resident in a area.
7. Two tickets should be issued  in every members, and he must be responsible for the every book.
8.  Any book borrower by a member from the library it should be returned within the 14 days.
9. Referring to by law 07, when a member fail to returned any book to the librarian within the 14 days period, he shall be able to pay fee of
one rupee per each day.
10. When a member faild to return any book within 14 days. That rafter to the by Law 07. After 07 days the reminder letter should be sent to
member and to the guarantor and the fee must be charged from the member or the gurantor. After that it shall be persumed to be lost.
11. In an instance when book consider as lost one. The member should pay the cost of book and 25% per service charge the fine that in by
law 08. No member should damage or disfigure to any book.

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
574
12. Every member must bring notice of librarian any damage or disfigure or the books that he intend to borrow. If not so, such book shall be
presumed as it has not been issued to him without such damage or disfigurement.
13. When the librarian is satisfied such book which returned by the member has damaged or differed. The member must defray cost of the
re supply of such book. After that . The book must be given to the member with the words “sold as damaged book” stamped hereon.
14. No member shall transfer any borrowed book to any one.
(i) Any one who violate the provisions of 13 by law, must be deprived membership.
(ii) No member should not return the book that, used by person who is suffering from a contagious and infectious illness.
(iii) When the book is used by a person who suffering from such infectious and contagious disease. that book must destroy and the
member should pay the cost of the book to the library.
(iv) When the member loses his ticket, he should inform that to the librarian by a letter. If the librarian satisfy that the member not
borrow the book. The librarian can issue a duplicate ticket to the member.
(v) The librarian should not issue the duplicate ticket, only after the 14 days.
15. When any problem arise between two members. The librarian should solve that problem.
16. When any person hope to borrow any book, that other member was borrowed such book. At that time the librarian maintain a waiting list
and he should note his name and when the book is returned, the librarian should have issued that book to the member who intend to borrow
it.
17. The lending library should be opened from 8.30 to 4.15 except the poya day. Sunday, Public holy days and the specific day that take stock
decided by the sabha.
18. Reference Section.
(i) Withe the permission of librarian, the members can refer the books by signing the register
(ii) No person can take the book or any martial out of the reference section, But if there is a photo copy service they can take photocopy and
pay the fees for them, the money can take by recommendation of the sabawa from time to time.
19. Reading Section.
(i) Every day except the day that Sabawa decide open from 8.30 to 4.30 any person who use reading room he must enter his name
in arrival in register and then use the reading  room.
(ii) No person must damage any news papers periodical magazine or any maps. that belongings to the reading room.
20. Photo copy Service.
(i) If there is photocopy service, any person wants get photo copy service, 3 photo copies can be get by paying the cost of them under
the custody and with approval of the librarian.
(ii) Any money can take by recommendation of the board of sabawa from time to time
21. (i) E- Library
For the E - library, the application fee is Rs. 10 and it should be renewed by paying Rs. 100 But the committy can amend this time
to time .
(ii) One person can get E-library service about 2 hours period only the day that the libray is opened.
Internet facilities
(i) By taking the membership from the E-Libraray one member can get inernet facilities any period as he wish.
(ii) For Facilities of internet is 40.00 Rs. per hour. Although the committee can amend this fee time to time.

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2016'02'12
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 12.02.2016
575
22. In General
(i) No person can be have disorderly or do any harassement within the premises of the Imbulpe Public Library.
(ii) Any one should not be or disturbed damaged any property or building or part of the building around the library.
(iii) After opening hours of the library No one should be done remaining or loitering
(iv) No one should be done, drinking smoking, spitting.
(v) No one should be done, Gambling with lots or card packs.
(vi) No one should disturb shouting singing or marking other sounds within the Library.
(vii) Don’t enter the library with the impure condition.
(viii) don’t take any animal into the library.
(ix) Should not do taking food or sleeping in the library.
(x) No one should distrub to the librarian or any other person who under the librarian.
(xi) Any person who contagious disease or who look after the such person should not enter the library.
(xii) Don’t use the Mobil or if take them switch off them.
23. Except lending section for using the reference section and other section. A fee recomendity by the sabhawa in Section 2, can be charged
by the non members.
24. Stock taking.
(i) It is responsible of Secretary of the Sabhawa to take a stock annually.
(ii) Annual stock taking report should forward to the Sabhawa.
(iii) The r ecommenders and the days much be acted within the 2 months.
25. When the violaiton of this bylaw or this violation is continued further every day on conviction in a competent court of law sentence to fine
under Schedule 122(2) No. 15 Act in 1987.
26. The expressions
(i) Librarian - means, Librarian appointed officer in charge by the Imbulpe pradeshiya Sabha.
(ii) Community Development office names the officer who was appointed by local authority commissioner to develop the
community of people of pradeshiya saba.
(iii) Sabhawa means Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iv) Sabhawa means Library adviasary Sabawa
(v) Distinguished person mean who Interlacement considered as can be rendering any service. learned person who live within the
area of Sabha.
27. In case of any discrepancy with regard to the meaning of the Tamil or English copies the Sinhala copy will be enforced.
02-303
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.