

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2413$38 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 04 jeks nodod - 2024'12'04
No. 2413/38 -  wedNesday,   december  04,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6933 - 24 (12/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Sri Lanka  Performance  auditing  StandardS  aPPLicabLe  
to  Performance  auditS  undertaken by  the  nationaL  
audit office  of  Sri Lanka (PaSs - naoSL)
national audit act, no. 19 of 2018
Publication under Section 5(2)
               
by virtue of the authority conferred upon the audit service commission of sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the 
“commission”), the commission hereby adopts the Performance auditing standards applicable to Performance audits 
conducted by the National Audit Office of Sri Lanka (PASs-NAOSL), as published herein. These Standards shall take effect 
on the 11th day of december 2024.
       
 secretary,
 audit service commission.
22nd day of december 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
2a
Performance Auditing Standards
for the use of National Audit Office of Sri Lanka
(Based on International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions-
ISSAI-3000)
Preface
Ha viNG understood the need of localization of international auditing standards, the audit service commission had decided 
at its meeting held on 24th may 2023 to appoint a committee to set the international standards of supreme audit institutions 
(ISSAI) for Performance Auditing issued by the International Organizations for Supreme Audit Institutions (INTOSAI) to 
suit local requirements. The Performance Auditing Standards for the use of National Audit Office of Sri Lanka had been 
formulated accordingly.
As a part of INTOSAI Framework of Professional Pronouncement (IFPP), the INTOSAI had issued ISSAI -300 and ISSAI 
- 3000 for Performance auditing, implementation Handbook and two guidelines GUid 3910 and GUid 3920 and these 
Standards were formulated in line with the above mentioned INTOSAI publications.
These standards need to be read with the Performance Audit Standards Implementation Hand Book for Sri Lanka. Further, 
the explanatory material describing the practical aspects of the standards are included in the P ass- NaOsL implementation 
Hand book.
These Standards are the properties of the NAOSL and publication and usage by the outside parties are restricted.
Performance Auditing Standards for the use of National Audit Office of Sri Lanka (Based on International Standards 
of Supreme Audit Institutions - ISSAI-3000)
Introduction
 01 General Matters
 (a) Professional standards and guidelines are essential for the credibility, quality and professionalism of public-
sector auditing. The Performance Auditing Standards for the use of National Audit Office of Sri Lanka are 
issued by the audit service commission of sri Lanka (ascsL) with the aim of enhancing the quality of 
Performance Audits performed by the National Audit Office of Sri Lanka (NAOSL).
 (b) These Standards are known as Performance Auditing Standards for the National Audit Office of Sri Lanka.
 (c) These Standards are arranged in line with International Standards for Supreme Audit Institutions (ISSAI). In 
compliance with issai 300 and issai 3000, and the standards are structured under main four parts;
 (i) The scope of the Performance Auditing Standard.
 (ii) Definition for Performance Auditing and its objectives.
 (iii)  General requirements for Performance auditing. it includes independence and ethics requirements, address 
to the intended users and responsible parties, identification of subject matters, assurance, audit objectives, 
audit approach, audit criteria, audit risk, skills, communication, supervision, professional judgment and 
skepticism, quality control, materiality and documentation.
 (iv) main stages of the auditing process. it includes audit planning, execution, reporting and follow up actions 
etc.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
3a
 02 Mandate
according to the section 5(2) of the National audit act, No. 19 of 2018, the audit service commission is empowered to 
publish these standards.
Part - 01
Scope of Works of the Auditor General on Performance Auditing in Sri Lanka :
 03 (a) The Article 154(1) of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka allows Auditor General 
to carry out audit of all government institutions including companies which hold 50% or more share rights by 
the government or government owned entities including the accounts thereof and provides freedom to carry 
out any type of audit of public entities.
  (b) according to the section 3(2) of the National audit act, No. 19 of 2018. the scope of the works of the auditor 
General is determined and it includes the audit of prudent management of public finance and properties of the 
public entities.
  (c) The ISSAI 300 allowed to Supreme Audit Institutions to develop authoritative set of Standards for Performance 
auditing based on or consistent with Performance audit Principles.
 04  The concept of the Performance Auditing can deal with a wide variety of subject matters and research methods. 
Therefore, it is allowed to flexible enough to use different audit approaches and encourage to make full use of 
the related guidance for specific subject matters. Audits may be conducted in accordance with these standards, 
issai and standards from other sources, if there are no contradictions arise. in those cases, reference should 
be made to such standards and to issai.
 05  elements of Performance auditing can be a part of a more extensive audit that also covers compliance and 
financial auditing aspects. When dealing with overlaps between audit types or combined audits, the auditor 
needs to observe all relevant standards and consider that where there are different priorities and the primary 
objective of the audit guild to auditor as to which standards to apply.
Part - 02
       Definition of Performance Auditing and its objectives :
 06 Definition 
  Performance Auditing is an independent, objective and reliable examination of whether government undertakings, 
systems, operations, programs, activities or organizations are operating in accordance with the principles of 
economy, efficiency and/or effectiveness and whether there is room for improvement.
  Economy
  The principle of economy means minimizing the costs of resources. The resources used should be available in 
due time, in and of appropriate quantity and quality and at the best price.
  Efficiency
  The principle of efficiency means getting the most from the available resources. It is concerned with the 
relationship between resources employed and outputs delivered in terms of quantity, quality and timing.
  Effectiveness
  The principle of effectiveness concerns meeting the objectives set and achieving the intended results. It deals 
with outputs, results or impacts.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
4a
  The auditor involved in performance audits shall analysis the conditions that are necessary to ensure that the 
principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness through its institutional and regulatory arrangements. The 
auditor shall first satisfy with plans of the auditee entity for adoption of good management practices and 
procedures to ensure the correct and timely delivery of services to adopt with principles of economy, efficiency 
and effectiveness.
 07 Objectives
  The objectives of the Performance Auditing are to contribute to improve economy, efficiency and effectiveness 
in the public sector and it aims to contribute to ensure the concepts of good governance, accountability and 
transparency. Performance auditing seeks to provide new information, analysis or insights and, where appropriate, 
recommendations for improvement.
Part - 03
      General Requirements for Performance Auditing :
 08 Independence and Ethics
  The Performance Auditor shall comply with the procedures for independence and ethics adopted by the National 
Audit Office of Sri Lanka
  independence comprises in two parts
  (a) independence in fact, and
  (b) independence in appearance.
  Independence in fact allows the auditor to perform activities with integrity, objectivity and professional 
skepticism and not affected by influences that compromise professional judgment.
  Independence in appearance cause a reasonable and informed stakeholder, having knowledge of relevant 
information to have reasonably doubt on the integrity, objectivity or professional skepticism of the auditor and 
conclude that the auditor has been compromised professional judgment.
 09 The Intended Users and the Responsible Parties
  The Performance Auditor shall clearly identify the intended users and the responsible parties of the audit. The 
auditor shall consider the implication of these parties throughout the audit in order to conduct the audit accordingly.
  The intended users are the persons for whom the auditor prepares the Performance Audit reports. The Parliament, 
Government agencies, third parties concerned by the audit report, and the citizens can all be treated as intended 
users.
  The responsible parties may be a range of individuals or entities with the responsibility of different aspect of 
the topic which subjected to audit. The responsible party may include the parties with operative and/or supervisory 
roles in implementing of subject matter and responsible for addressing the recommendations and initiating the 
changes required. a responsible party may also be an intended user.
 10 Subject Matter
  The Performance Auditor shall identify the subject matter of a Performance Audit.
  The subject matter describes the audit topic. It relates to the question “what is audited” which is defined in 
the audit scope. The subject matter of a Performance Audit may be specific programs, undertakings, systems, 
entities or funds and may comprise activities.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
5a
  (with their outputs, outcomes and impacts) or existing situations, including causes and consequences.
  The audit scope is the boundary of the audit and is directly tied to the audit objectives. The audit scope defines 
the subject matter that the auditor will assess and report on, the documents or records to be examined, the period 
reviewed, and the locations that will be included.
 11 Confidence and Assurance in Performance Auditing
  The Performance Auditor shall communicate assurance about the outcome of the audit of the subject matter 
against criteria in a transparent way.
  Assurance means the users can be confident in the findings, conclusions and recommendations in the report. 
The auditor provides the users with assurance by explaining how findings, criteria and conclusions were developed 
in a balanced and reasonable manner, and the findings resulted to the conclusion.
  The Performance Auditor shall ensure that
 (a) The reliable and valid information had been presented to the intended user about the activities of a 
responsible party and
 (b) The conclusions on the subject matter are logically linked to the audit objective and criteria, and supported 
by sufficient and appropriate audit evidence
  as enable to prove the conclusion arrived and the recommendations made thereon by the Performance auditor 
consisted with or based on valid reasons.
 12 Audit Objectives
  The Performance Auditor shall set a clearly-defined audit objectives that relates to the principles of economy, 
efficiency and/or effectiveness.
  The auditor shall articulate the audit objectives with sufficient details in order to be clear about the questions 
that will be answered and to allow logical development of the audit programs.
 13 Audit Approach
  The Performance Auditor shall choose a
 (a) result-oriented
 (b) Problem- oriented
 (c) system-oriented audit approach, or
 (d) a combination thereof
  Result-oriented approach, which assesses whether outcome or output objectives have been achieved as intended 
and the activities are operated in expected manner.
  Problem-oriented approach, examines, verifies and analyses the causes of particular problems or deviations 
from audit criteria.
  System-oriented approach, examines the proper functioning of management system.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
6a
 14 Audit Criteria
 (a) Audit Criteria are the benchmarks used to evaluate the subject matter.
 (b) The Performance Auditor shall establish suitable audit criteria, which correspond to the audit objectives 
and audit questions which related to the principles of economy, efficiency and/or effectiveness.
 (c) The Performance Auditor shall, as part of planning and/or conducting the audit, discuss the audit criteria 
with the auditee entity.
 15 Audit Risk
  The auditor shall actively manage audit risk to avoid the development of incorrect or incomplete audit findings, 
conclusions, and recommendations, providing unbalanced information or failing to add value.
  Audit risk related to the Performance Auditing is the possibility that the auditor’s findings, conclusions and 
recommendations may be improper or incomplete, as a result of factors such as the insufficiency or 
inappropriateness of evidence, an inadequate audit process, or intentional omissions or misleading information 
due to misrepresentation or fraud.
 16 Communications
 (a) The Performance Auditor shall plan and maintain effective and proper communication system to 
communicate the key aspects of the audit with the auditee entity and relevant stakeholders throughout 
the audit process.
 (b) The Performance Auditor shall take care to ensure that communication with stakeholders and not to 
compromise the independence and impartiality of the NaOsL.
 17 Skills of the Audit Staff
 (a) The members of the Performance Auditing team collectively shall have necessary professional competence 
to perform the audit.
 (b) if the auditor determines that external expertise is required to complete the knowledge of the audit team 
then the auditor may consult, as appropriate, with individuals, within and outside the supreme audit 
institution, who have specialized expertise.
 18 Supervision of Audit works
  it shall be ensured that the work of the audit staff at each level is properly supervised during the audit process.
 19 Professional Judgment and Skepticism
 (a) The Performance Auditor shall exercise professional judgment and skepticism and consider issues from 
different sources, maintaining an open and objective attitude to various views and arguments.
 (b) The Performance Auditor shall assess the risk of fraud when planning the audit and be alert to the possibility 
of frauds throughout the audit process.
  Professional Judgment refers to the application of collective knowledge, skills, and experience to the audit 
process. It helps to auditor to determine the level of understanding needed for the audit of subject matter.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
7a
  Professional Skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit 
evidence. The auditor uses the knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform the audit works in good faith and 
objectively to evaluate the evidence.
 20 Quality Controls
  It is required to establish and maintain a system within the NAOSL to safeguard quality of audit works. The 
Performance auditor shall comply with such quality control system by ensuring that all requirements are met, 
and place emphasis on appropriate, balanced, and fair audit reports that add value and answer the audit questions.
  The policies and procedures on quality control systems within the NAOSL shall be developed and maintained 
in consistent manner and communicated to the staff. it helps to resolve differences of opinion between supervisors 
and audit teams. In addition, the provisions of additional guidance and on-the job training is essential to ensure 
the effectiveness of the quality control mechanisms.
 21 Materiality
  The Performance Auditor shall consider the materiality at all stages of the audit process, including the financial, 
social and political aspects of the subject matter with the goal of delivering as much added value as possible.
  Materiality  related to the Performance Auditing can be defined as the relative importance (or significance) of 
a matter within the context in which it is being considered.
  The materiality includes the matters relating to the social and political significance, compliance, transparency, 
governance and accountability as well as the monetary value. The materiality can vary over time and can depend 
on the perspective of the intended users and responsible parties.
 22 Documentation
  The Performance Auditor shall document the audit works completed in sufficient and detailed manner.
  The audit works carried out shall be documented in timely manners,
 (a) to provide a clear understanding of the audit work
 (b) to enable an experienced auditor with no prior knowledge of the audit to understand the nature, timing, 
scope and results of the audit work performed and
 (c) to evaluate the audit evidence obtained to support the audit findings, conclusions and recommendations, 
by providing evidence that exercising of professional judgments on all significant matters .
Part - 4
     Stages of the Process of Performance Auditing
(a)  Planning of Performance Audit
 23 Selection of Audit Topies
 (a) The Performance Auditor shall select audit topics by adopting a strategic planning process.
  The strategic planning process for Performance auditing is covered by the operational audit plan of the 
NaOsL for one or more years. considering the dynamic nature of the public sector of the country and 
the changing priorities in public policies, it is fair that the revising of operational audit plans annually.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
8a
  The operational audit plan for the Performance Audit Unit of the NAOSL shall serve as a basis for 
operational planning and resource allocation. The plan can list out the audit areas and provide a brief 
account of the possible problems, questions, and other arguments supporting each one of them. based on 
the above mentioned list, the topics for the performance audit will be selected by the Performance audit 
section of the NaOsL with the approval of the auditor General.
 (b) The Performance Auditor shall analysis potential topics by conducting researches to identify audit risks 
and problems.
 (b) The selection of audit topics may result from assessing risk, analyzing problems and considering materiality. 
risks are the likelihood and impact of an event with the potential to affect the achievement of an entity’s 
objectives. Materiality relates not only to financial aspects, but also social and/or political impacts, such 
as the number of people affected by a law or reform, transparency and good governance.
 (c) The matters such as significance of the audit topic, auditability, compliance with the audit mandate, 
maximization of expected impact of the audit, the capacities to complete the audit and results and the 
recommendations of previous audits or examinations etc., shall be considered in selection of audit topics.
  The Performance Auditor shall consider in the audit topic selection process on potential impact of the 
audit topic in providing important benefits for public finance and administration, the auditee entity, or the 
general public with the availability of the resources of the NaOsL.
  Auditability defines whether a topic is suitable for an audit. The Performance Auditor requires to consider 
the matters such as applicability of relevant audit approaches, methodologies, and availability of audit 
criteria and other information for audit purposes in an efficient and timely manner. If the auditor determines 
that reliable information is not available then that matter may itself be a reason for selecting for an audit
 24 Designing of Audit Procedures for Performance Auditing
 (a) The Performance Auditor shall design the audit procedures to be used for gathering sufficient and appropriate 
audit evidence that respond to the audit objectives and questions. For that purpose, the Performance 
auditor shall acquire substantive and methodological knowledge on selected audit topics at the planning 
phase.
 (b) in designing of audit procedures, the auditor should plan the audit in a manner that contributes to a high-
quality audit that will be carried out in an economical, efficient, effective and timely manner.
  To accomplish a high-quality audit within a limited timeframe the Performance Auditor needs to consider 
the performance audit as a project in the sense that it involves planning, organizing, securing, managing, 
leading, and controlling resources to achieve specific goals. Managing the performance audit as a project 
requires the development of project management methodologies and strategies.
  To ensure the audit is properly planned, the Performance Auditor needs to acquire sufficient knowledge 
of the audit program or auditee’s business before the audit is launched. Therefore, before starting the 
audit, it is necessary to carry out a pre-study on audit works. it is similar to a research work for building 
of knowledge, testing various audit designs and checking whether the necessary data are available.
  The senior auditor of the audit team should submit the audit plan to the responsible officers in the senior 
management level of the NaOsL such as senior assistant auditor General and above, for approval 
purposes. The regular meetings to be arranged by the officers in the senior and operational management 
levels of the NaOsL with the audit team to make aware on the overall audit design and subsequent 
changes if any.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
9a
 (b) Execution of Performance Audit 
 25 Collection of Audit Evidence
  The Performance Auditor shall obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence in order to establish audit 
findings, reach conclusions in response to the audit objectives and audit questions as enable to issue 
recommendations.
  Audit evidence should be both sufficient (quantity) and appropriate (quality) to persuade a knowledgeable person 
that the audit findings are reasonable.
  Sufficiency is a measure of the quantity of audit evidence used to support the audit findings and conclusions. 
Appropriateness refers to the quality of audit evidence. For that purpose, the audit evidence should be relevant, 
valid and reliable.
  Relevance  refers to the extent of the audit evidence for a logical relationship with, and importance to, the audit 
objectives and audit questions. Validity refers to the extent to which the audit evidence is a meaningful or 
providing of reasonable basis for measuring what is being evaluated. Reliability  refers to the extent to which 
the audit evidence is supported by corroborating data from a range of sources, or produces the same audit findings 
when tested repeatedly.
 26 Analysis of Audit Evidence
  The Performance Auditor shall analyses the collected information to ensure that the audit findings are remained 
in line with the formulated audit objectives and audit questions and responding to such audit objectives properly. 
Otherwise the audit objectives and audit questions need to be reformulated, as needed.
  The analytical process in performance auditing involves continuous consideration by the auditor of the audit 
questions, audit evidence gathered, and methods employed. The whole process is closely linked with drafting 
of the audit report, which can be seen as an essential part of the analytical process.
(c)  Reporting
 27 Qualities of the Performance Audit Report
 (a) The Performance Audit report should be a comprehensive, convincing, reader friendly, and balanced 
report and need to be submitted in timely manner.
 (b) The Performance Auditor shall identify the audit criteria and their sources in the audit report.
 (c) The Performance Auditor shall give an opportunity to the auditee entity to comment on the audit findings, 
conclusions and recommendations, before issuing of audit report.
 (d) The Performance Auditor shall record the auditee entity’s comments and the reasons for making changes 
to the audit report or for rejecting comments received
 (e) The Performance Audit reports would be widely accessible and therefore, need to consider the regulations 
on confidential information contained in the audit report
  To ensure the comprehensiveness of the audit report, all the information and arguments needed to be included 
to address the audit objectives and audit questions, with adequate details to understand the subject matter, audit 
findings and conclusions.
  For the purpose of convincing, an audit report needs to be logically structured and present a clear relationship 
between the audit objectives and audit questions, audit criteria, audit findings, conclusions and recommendations.
  clear and unambiguous language should be used in the audit report to make it reader friendly.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'04
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.12.2024
10a
  To be a balanced Performance Audit report, it should be impartial in content and tone. The Performance Auditor 
needs to explain causes and the consequences of the problems in the audit report, because it allows the reader 
to better understand the significance of the problem.
  The Performance Audit report needs to be issued on time in order to make the information available for use by 
management, government, the legislature and other interested parties.
 28 Recommendation
  The Performance Auditor shall provide constructive recommendations that contribute significantly by addressing 
the weaknesses or problems identified in the audit.
  A constructive recommendation should be well founded, value added, practical and linked to the audit objectives, 
findings and conclusions. Recommendations need to address the causes of problems and not encroach on the 
management’s responsibilities. it should be clear how the recommendation would contribute to better 
performance. The recommendations must follow logically or analytically from the facts and arguments presented. 
Before finalizing the recommendation, the audit team should discuss the findings of the audit and conclusions 
made thereon with the senior management of the NaOsL as enable to consider the different views on the matters 
highlighted in the audit report and make fair recommendations.
 29 Publication of Performance Audit Reports
  as par section 13 of the National audit act, No. 19 of 2018, the NaOsL should take action to report to the 
Parliament on Performance audits carried out in each year and publish the reports through on its website
(d)  Follow up
 30 (a) The Performance Auditor shall take appropriate follow up actions on previous audit findings and recommendations.
  (b) The Performance Auditor shall focus the follow-up on whether the auditee entity has adequately addressed the 
problems and remedied the underlying situation after a reasonable period.
  (c) action should be taken by the NaOsL to reports to the committee of Public accounts and committee of Public 
enterprises which are the steering committees of the Parliament appointed to investigate the Performance audit 
reports submitted by the auditor General, on the conclusions and impacts of all relevant corrective actions.
  Follow-up refers to the Performance Auditor’s examination of the corrective actions taken by the auditee entity, 
or other responsible party, based on the results of a Performance audit. i t is an independent activity that increases 
the value of the audit process by strengthening the impact of the audit and laying the basis for improvements 
to future audit work.
  it also encourages the auditee entity, and other intended users of audit reports, to take the audit report and audit 
findings seriously, and provides useful lessons to follow performance indicators. Follow-up is important for the 
internal learning and development of the auditee entity.
  Follow-up is not restricted to implementing recommendations but focuses on whether the auditee entity has 
addressed the problems adequately and remedied the underlying situation after a reasonable period.
eOG 12 - 0046
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.