

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.07.2014
1 A
wxl 1870$63 - 2014 cQ,s ui 10 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'07'10
No. 1870/63  –  THURSDAY  JULY  10, 2014
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B  5/83.
CONTROL  OF  PESTICIDES  ACT, No. 33 OF  1980
REGULATIONS  made by the Minister of Agriculture under Section 26 read with Section 23 of the Control of Pesticides
Act, No. 33 of 1980.
MAHINDA YAPA ABEYW ARDENA,
Minister of Agriculture.
Colombo,
10th July 2014.
Regulations
Regulations published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 263/17 of September 22, 1983 as amended by Gazette
Extraordinary No. 961/15 of February 07, 1997 are hereby further amended as follows :-
(i) by the substitution for regulation I thereof, of the following regulation :
“1. (a) Every application for licensing of a Pesticide under Section 6, shall be accompanied by a fee of
Rupees Hundred Thousand payable in two installments of the following manner -
(i) Rupees Seventy Five Thousand as a non-refundable filing fee ; and
(ii) Rupees Twenty Five Thousand as a registration fee upon acceptance of the application
(b) Every application for licensing of a restricted pesticide shall be accompanied by a fee of Rupees Six
Thousand and Five Hundred as a filing fee subject to the approval of the committee and a fee of
Rupees Four Thousand as a registration fee.
(c) Every appeal against -
(i) the rejection under Section 7 of an application for the licensing of a pesticide ; or

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.07.2014
(ii) the cancellation, suspension or modification under Section II, of a license issued under
Section 7
                            shall be accompanied by a fee of Rupees Ten Thousand.”.
(ii) by the substitution for regulation 2 thereof, of the following regulation : -
“2 (a) Every application for the renewal of a licence issued in respect of pesticide shall be accompanied
by a fee of Rupees Four Thousand ;
(b) Every licence holder who intends to register his licence after completion of six years shall obatain
a bio efficacy certificate from a Government Research Institute.”.
(iii) by the addition immediately after regulation 3 thereof, of the following new regulations :-
“4. Any person who is desirous of importing any registered pesticide shall obtain a written approval of
the Registrar, under Section 17 with the payment of Rupees One Thousand as a permit fee.
5. (a) when applying for a licensing of pesticide for the first time under Section 6 every application shall
be accompanied with a field evaluation obtained from the Registrar which certifies that no hazard
shall occur in the marketing or distribution of certain substances to safeguard the third parties, the
environment, and wild life resources.
(b) every application for the field evaluation under paragraph (a) shall be accompanied by a fee of
Rupees Hundred Thousand payable in two instalments in the following manner-
(i) Rupess Fifty Thousand as a non-refundable filing fee ; and
(ii) Rupees Fifty Thousand as a registration fee upon carrying out of the field evaluation and
acceptance of the application :
Provided that any importer of restricted pesticide may be exempted from the requirement of obtaining
the field evaluation under paragraph (a) subject to the approval of the committee :
Provided further that every licence holder holding a license on the day of coming into operation of
these regulations, shall within six months of the date of coming into operation of these regulation,
obtain a field evaluation in terms of these regulations.
6. Unless the context otherwise requires :-
“Act” means the Control of Pesticides Act, No. 33 of 1980 ;
“Bio-Efficacy Certificate” means a certificate issued by a relevant Government Research Institute, indicating the
effectiveness of a pesticide in controlling pests ;
“Committee” means the Pesticide Technical and Advisory Committee established under the Pesticide Control
Act, No. 33 of 1980
“Government Research Institute” means as Institute established by the Government to promote crops, human
and animal health ;
“Registrar”  means the Registrar of Pesticide appointed under the Control of Pesticide Act, No. 33 of 1980.”.
07-787
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.