

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1611
1611
wxl 1"826 - 2013 wf.daia;= 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'08'30
No. 1,826 – FRIDAY AUGUST 30, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1613
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— (i) The Catalogue of Books printed Quarterly in April to June, 2011 registered under the Printers and Publishers ordinance has been
published in Part V of this Gazette.
(ii) Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,825 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th September, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th
September, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1612
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1613
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
ANURADHAPURA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th Sep tember,
2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
13th August, 2013.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Anuradhapura Nuwaragampalatha Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
 Central Kandyan) of Nuwaragampalatha General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths of Anuradhapura.
Gambirigaswewa Division.
08–1045
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LIVESTOCK  AND RURAL
COMMUNITY  DEVELOPMENT
Recruitment for the Post of Technical Officer
(Supervisory Management Assistant in the Category of
Technical Service) on Open Basis
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Post of Technical Officer in
the Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development
from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the following qualifications.
01. Method of Recruitment. – Persons passing the written
examination out of the applicants who have fulfilled the required
qualifications specified in the notice would be summoned for a
structured interview and the persons obtaining highest marks on
the whole results will be recruited according to the available
vacancies. Written examination would be conducted by the Secretary
of the Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development
or an institution authorized by him and also the structured Interview
Board would be appointed by him. Structured interview would be
conducted in accordance with the marking scheme approved by the
Public Service Commission.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1614
2. Required qualifications :
(i) Educational Qualifications :
(a) Pass G. C. E. A/L Examination at one sitting with
three (03) subjects of the Science/Mathematics
Syllabus with two subjects in the relevant field.
(Physics, Chemistry and Combined Mathematics). ;
and
(b) Pass G. C. E. O/L Examination in one sitting with
credits for Sinhala/Tamil/English language and
Mathematics and two other subjects.
(ii) Professional Qualifications .– Should possesses one of
the following qualifications :
* National Certificate in Higher National Diploma in
Technology offered by the University of Moratuwa
or Hardy Institute of Ampara.
* National Engineering Diploma offered by the National
Apprenticeship and Training Authority.
* National Higher Engineering Diploma offered by the
Ministry of Education and Higher Education.
* Technical Diploma Offered by the Open University
of Sri Lanka.
* Successful completion of Part I of Engineering
Examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Engineering
Institute.
* Possession of other Technical qualifications accepted
by the Sri Lanka Technical Service Board equaling to
the qualifications referred above in every respect,
after inquiring the obtaining the views of the Ministry
of Higher Education and the Institutions by which
the above mentioned certificates were issued.
* Completion of Level 5 or 6 of National V ocational
Qualification (NVQ) relating to the field of
employment.
(iii) Experience :
* 3 years experience since acquiring of the above
qualifications.
(iv) Physical fitness :
* Should be in good physical condition and good conduct.
(v) Other qualifications :
* Should be a Sri Lankan.
3. Terms and conditions of Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
applicant should contribute for the Widows/Widowers
or Orphans' Pension Fund.
(ii) Appointment will be subject to 03 years probation
period.
(iii) The proficiency in other languages should be acquired
within 5 years of the appointment as per Public
Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and other
consequential circulars and other entrants joined the
service through a language other than the official language
should acquire the proficiency in one official language
within the period of probation.
(iv) This appointment is subject to the Rules of the Public
Service Commission, Provisions of the Establishment
Code, Government Financial Regulations and other
Departmental Rules.
4. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than
30 years of age at the closing date of the applications.
5. Salary scale.– This post is entitle to a monthly salary scale of
Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
6. Method of Recruitment :
(a) Written Examination.
Name of the question Syllabus Time T otal Qualifying
Paper Marks Marks
1. Intelligence Test A question paper consisting questions of 01 Hour 100 40
Judging the thinking argumentativeness,
analytical positions of thinking and decision
making power of the candidate
2. General Test A question paper consisting questions of 01 Hour 100 40
(Technical and subject following subjects :
oriented test) 1. Knowledge in Physical and qualitative
state of building  materials :
Manner in which the cement, lime, sand kinds
of paints, kinds of varnish, plastics and glass

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1615
are used as building materials, knowledge in
identifying timber of good quality.
2. Building construction and Estimate preparation :
Foundation, putting up of walls, woodern roof,
iron walls, towers, concrete
The manner how the planks/towers/foundations/
Stare cases are placed and the instances when
they are placed.
Obtaining measurements, preparation of
estimates, bill of quantities (BOQ) and estimation
of the number of labourers required.
Name of the question Syllabus Time T otal Qualifying
Paper Marks Marks
(b) the following scheme of marks will be based for the structured
interview :
Heads for giving marks at the interview Maximum marks
1. Additional educational qualifications 30
2. Additional professional qualifications 20
3. Special merits 10
4. Additional experience 35
5. Merit on facing the interview 05
7. Identity of the applicants. – Applicants who have submitted
the applications complete in every aspects will be summoned for
the written examination.
Following identities will be accepted for the identification of the
applicants when appearing for the written test :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) Passport.
(iii) V alid Driving License.
(a) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach
the following address on or before 16.09.2013.
Applications received after this date will be rejected.
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community
Development,
No. 45, St. Michael Road,
Colombo 03.
(b) "Calling for applications for the post of Technical
Officer (Grade III)" should be mentioned at the top
left corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
(c) Every applicant should make payment of an
examination fee of Rs. 300 and this payment should be
made in favour of the Secretary, Ministry of Livestock
and Rural  Community Development, St. Michael Road,
Colombo 03 by a Money Order payable at the General
Post Office, Colombo. This fee will not be refunded
under any circumstances.
(d) Signature of the applicant should be attested by a
Principal of a Government School, Justice of Peace, a
Commissioned Officer of the Navy, Air Force or Army,
a Gazetted Police Officer or a permanent Government
Officer drawing a monthly amalgamated salary
of Rs. 22,935.
(e) Officers presently attached to the Government Service
or Provincial Government Service should forward their
applications through their respective Heads of the
Department.
(f) The applications should be clearly perfected by the
candidates according to the specimen application given
with this. The applications not confirming to these
requirements will be rejected. No complaint regarding
loss or delay of applications would be entertained.
8. Providing incorrect information .– If any information
mentioned in your application is found be incorrect or false before
your appointment your candidature would be cancelled prior to the
examination and if any information mentioned in your application
is found be incorrect or false after your appointment is made your
will be dismissed from service subject to the relevant procedures.
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and
Rural Community Development.
Colombo 03.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1616
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK AND RURAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
RECRUITMENT FOR THE POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER (SUPERVISORY
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT IN THE CATEGORY OF TECHNICAL SERVICE)
1. Full name of the applicant :––––––––––––.
2. Name with initials :––––––––––––.
3. Sex :
Male/Female :––––––––––––.
4. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
5. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
6. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
7. Age at the last date of calling for applications :––––––––––.
8. Educational qualifications :––––––––––––.
9. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
10. Experience :––––––––––––.
(Service stations/place and No. of years)
11. Special merits :––––––––––––.
12. Details of the receipt for payment of Examination fee :
(i) Office where Exam fee paid :––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid :––––––––––––.
Paste the receipt of payment of Examination fee here firmly
13. If an officer in Government/Provincial Government Service :
––––––––––––.
Name and the address of the service station :––––––––––––.
Signature and official seal of the Head of Department :––––.
14. I certify that the above mentioned particulars are true and
correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
15. I certify that the above named candidate placed his/her
signature before me.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
08–896
––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Ports and Highways
DIRECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following post, from citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the necessary qualifications as indicat ed in
this Notification.
Posts Class No. of Posts
Examiner (Deck) Class I 01
1. In this notice "Secretary" shall mean the "Secretary to the Ministry of which the subject of shipping is assigned".
2. Effective date of the appointments will be determined as per the orders of the Public Service Commission.
3. Qualifications and Experience :
Posts Educational Qualifications Experience
Examiner (Deck) Applicants should possess a certificate of Competency Having served as a Master for a period
as a Master issued by the Director General's Office of of minimum 02 years in a trading
Merchant Shipping, Sri Lanka or a Government Maritime capacity of merchant vessel having a
Administration of the following countreis ; United Kingdom, not less than 3,000 G. T.
Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, India, Pakistan, New Zealand,
Malaysia, Singapore, South Africa and Ireland or a country
that has an agreement on mutual recognition with Sri Lanka
for relevant certificates
Physical fitness.– All candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the
duties of the post. Selected candidates will be called upon to undergo a medical examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1617
Other Qualifications .– A candidate applying for these posts must :–
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Have a sound moral character ;
(iii) Have satisfied all the requirements for recruitment to the post, on the prescribed date as per the notification/ Gazette.
4. Salary scale.– As per the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006 Salary scale for above post as given below.
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (SL-1-2006) Salary range payable starts from the 20th step of this scale (Rs.
36,755).
5. Age.– Should not be less than 30 years and not more than 45 years of age. (The upper age limit will not be applicable to those
who are already in the public service).
6. Method of recruitment.– Marks will be granted by the structured interview board appointed by the Public Service Commission
as per the marking scheme mentioned in below. Vacancies will be filled in order of the merit obtained by the applicant at the i nterview.
Areas to be checked and the marks allotted Maximum Marks
Examiner (Deck)
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :
(i) Postgraduate Degree related to fields of Engineering or Science or Commerce or Management or 30
Transportation and Logistics or Maritime, from a university recognized by the
University Grant Commission Marks - 30
(ii) Postgraduate Diploma under the above fields Marks - 20
(iii) Under the above fields :
1st Class of Degree Marks - 18
2nd Upper Marks - 15
2nd Lower Marks - 12
02. Professional Qualifications :
(i) In possession of a dully completed one year Diploma Certificate related to the field, from a 10
recognized by the Government
(additional educational qualifications that have not been allocated any marks under (01))
Marks  10
(ii) In possession of a duly completed six months Diploma Certificate related to the field,
from a recognized by the Government
(additional educational qualifications that have not been allocated any marks under (01))
Marks 05
03. Additional Experience : 30
In addition to the minimum recruitment qualifications
(5 marks per year and maximum for 06 years)
04. Contribution to the field (innovations and publications) 10
05. Computer Literacy -
- Subject of the Dgree Marks - 15 15
- 1 year Diploma/Certificate Marks - 12
- 6 months Diploma/Certificate Marks - 10
- Other Marks - 08
06. Skills at the interview 05
–––
100

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1618
07. Terms of Engagement :
(i) Efficiency Bar Examination :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 05 years from the date of appointment.
(ii) Nature of Efficiency Bar - Written Examination.
(iii) Language Proficiency :
Language Proficiency to be acquired
01. Official Language Officers who are recruited in a language medium other than an official language shall acquire
one such prescribed official language proficiency during the probation period and the other
official language within 6 years after their appointment.
02. Other Official Language In terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 and other relevant
Circular, should have acquired level 1 proficiency.
(iv) Above posts are permanent and Pensionable. Contributions must be made to 
“Widows and Orphans ” Pension Fund.
(v) This appointment will be on probation for a period of 3 years.
(vi) A selected candidate will be appointed to Class I of the service on the terms and conditions governing appointments
under the extra ordinary gazette notification No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009 of the Public Service Commission and under
the conditions of Administrative Regulations.
(vii) All the recruitments should be subjected to the approved Scheme of Recrutiment and any amendments made or to be
made hereafter to the Scheme of Recruitment.
08. Method of applying :
(i) Applications which should be in the form appended to this notification should be sent by registered post to reach the
Director General, Director General
’s Office of Merchant Shipping, No. 43/89, 1st Floor, Bristol Building, York Street,
Colombo 01 on or before 30.09.2013. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked with the relevant post
on the left hand top corner.
(ii) Applications from officers in the public service must be forwarded through the Heads of their Departments.
In this notification, if there is any conflict between the English, Sinhala and Tamil texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Public Service Commission.
R. W. R. P
EMASIRI,
Secretary.
Ministry of Ports and Highways - Ports Division,
No. 19, Chaithya Road,
Colombo 01,
30th August, 2013.
F
ORM OF APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF PORTS AND HIGHWAYS
THE POST OF EXAMINER (DECK) OF DIRECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING
01. Name in full :––––––––––––.
02. Address :––––––––––––.
03. Contact No. :––––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :––––––––––––.
Age as at 30.09.2013 :
Years :––––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––––,  Days :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'08'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2013
1619
05. Nationality :––––––––––––.
06. Educational qualifications :––––––––––––.
07. Professional qualifications :––––––––––––.
08. Particulars of employment or training :––––––––––––.
09. Present employment :––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification before the selection and to dismissal without
any compensation whatsoever if the inaccuracies are detected after the appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
08–1085
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.