

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2008
951
951
wxl 1"562 - 2008 wf.daia;= 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2008'08'08
No. 1,562 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 08, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 953
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th August, 2008, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 01st August, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part III of the Gazette No. 1,561 of 08.01.2008 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2008
952
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2008
953
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  LAND  AND  LAND  DEVELOPMENT
Survey Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from the qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
for the Competitive examination to be held for recruitment to the
post of Survey Instrument Technicians in the Survey Department.
02. Job Profile.– Servicing and maintenance of accessories and
instruments related to the Survey activities.
03. 1. Question Paper of the examination :
(a) Paper I - Intelligence.
(b) Paper II - General Knowledge (There will also
be questions on the knowledge of
technology pertaining to the post)
2. Equal marks will be given for each question paper and the
selection will be made according to the aggregate marks
obtained by the candidates at the examination.
04. Recruitment Grade .– Survey Instrument Technician
Grade III.
05. Terms of Employment .– This post is permanent and
pensionable. Should contribute to the Widows' and Orphans' pension
fund or to the Widowers' and Orphan's Pension Fund. Appointment
will be subjected to a probationary period of three years and the
selected candidates should be prepared to serve in the Head Office
and also they are subject to the General Conditions applicable to
the appointment to the posts in the Public Service, published at the
beginning of this Gazette Notification.
06. Salary Scale :-
Survey Instrument Technician Grade III – Rs. 14,425 – 10 x 145
– 11 x 170 – 6 x 240 – 14 x 320 – Rs. 23,665 p. m. (MT 1-
2006-A).
Survey Instrument Technician Grade II – Rs. 14,425 – 10 x 145
– 11 x 170 – 6 x 240 – 14 x 320 – Rs. 23,665 p. m. start from
salary step 12 (MT 1-2006-A).
Survey Instrument Technician Grade I – Rs. 14,425 – 10 x 145
– 11 x 170 – 6 x 240 – 14 x 320 – Rs. 23,665 p. m. start from
salary step 23 (MT 1-2006-A).
Survey Instrument Technician Selection Grade – Rs. 20,030 –
11 x 365 – 18 x 500 – Rs. 33,045 p. m. (MN 7-2006-A).
07. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years of age on the closing date of application. (The
Maximum age limit will not apply to the candidates who are already
in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service.).
08. Educational Qualifications :-
(a) For 90% of External Candidates :-
Should have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) examination in
06 subjects in not more than two sittings (Out of which
05 passes should be in one and the same sittings)
including 03 credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil,
Mathematics/Arithmetic and Science ; and
Pass in G. C. E. (A/L) examination in Applied Maths,
Pure Maths and Physics ; and
Should have successfully followed one year Electronic
or Mechanical Course at a Technical College recognized
by the Government.
09. Method of Recruitment.– Selection will be made from among
the successful candidates on the results of the written examination
in term of the P . A. Circular No. 15/90 and relevant Circulars.
10. It is compulsory that all candidates should have fulfilled
their qualifications required to the post before the closing date of
applications for the examination.
11. Applications and Other Details :
(a) (i) Application should be prepared by the applicant
himself on a paper size 21 x 29 cm (A4) as per the
specimen application form appearing at the end of
this notification and cages No. 01 – 09 should appear
on the front page, No. 10-12 appear on the second
page and cages No. 13, 14 and 15 appear on the
third page. The receipt obtained after paying the
examination fees should be affixed on the specified
place on the application. On the top left hand corner
of the envelop containing the application the Post
of "Survey Instrument Technician" to be clearly
mentioned and the duly completed applications shall
be sent by registered post to the Surveyor General,
Survey Department, Kirula Road, Narahenpita,
Colombo 05 to reach him on or before 10.09.2008
(Applications should not be sent to the personal
name or to any other address).
(ii) The applications which are incomplete and not
having required qualifications and also that are
received after the closing date of application will be
rejected without any notice.
(iii) The loss of applications in the post will not be
considered.
(iv) The examination fees will not be refunded under
any circumstances.
(v) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
(b) Candidate's identity should be attested by a Head of
Government School, Justice of the Peace, Commission
of Oaths, Attorney at Law, A Commissioned Officer of
the Army or Air Force, a Police Officer holding a Gazetted
Post in the Police Service, a permanent Government

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2008
954
Officer in the Tertiary or Senior Level in terms of the
grading of employees in the P. A. Circular No. 06/2006.
12. Candidates have to submit following documents whenever
requested :
(i) Certificate of birth ;
(ii) Educational Certificates ;
(iii) A Grama Niladhari Certificate obtained recently ;
(iv) Two Character Certificates.
N. B.– Documents or their copies should not be attached to the
application.
13. Those candidates who are already in the Public Service should
send their applications through the respective Department Heads.
14. Examination fee is Rs. 200. A candidate shall pay this amount
to any District Office of Superintendent of Surveys and the receipt
should be affixed on the prescribed place on the application. Money
orders or cheques will not be accepted.
15. Examination Centre.–  Action will be taken to hold the
examination at the Head Office or any other suitable centre and also
the Candidate will be notified of the date of the examination later.
16. Admission to the Examination .– All the Candidates who
have submitted the applications and having requisite basis
qualifications will be posted the admission card to the respective
addresses given in the application. A Candidate appearing the
examination should produce his/her admission card to the Supervisor
at the examination Centre. Similarly, a  Candidate without the
admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination and at
the same time, Candidates should sit the examination only at the
examination hall stipulated to them.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a Candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications
to sit for this examination or complied with the requisite
qualifications for this post.
17. Identity of the Candidate .– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
Supervisor. For this purpose, any of the following documents will
be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) Valid Postal Identity Card issued by the Post Master
General.
(c) Valid Passport.
18. Punishment for Furnishing Flase Information.– If a Candidate
is found to be unqualified, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled
prior to the examination, while holding the examination or
subsequent to the examination or at any time thereafter. Even after
the recruitment to the Service, if a Candidate is found to have
furnished any false information purposely or a Candidate has
deliberately concealed any important information, he/she shall be
liable to dismissal from state Service.
19. Medium of Language.–  The examination will be held in
Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums and the candidates is at liberty
to sit the examination in any one of these languages. However,
Candidates will not be permitted to change the medium of language,
they have selected in the application.
20. Any matter not covered by these conditions will be
determined at the discretion of the Surveyor General.
B. J. P. M
ENDIS,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor Department,
Colombo 05,
22nd July, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT  TO THE POST OF
SURVEY INSTRUMENT TECHNICIAN IN THE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
For Office use only
(Indicate the Code No. in the given cage)
01. (i) Name with initials :
(i) In Sinhala :—————.
(ii) In English :—————.
(ii) Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :
(i) In Sinhala :—————.
(ii) In English :—————.
02. (i) Permanent Address (in legible letters) :—————.
(ii) Administrative District of the Address :—————.
03. Sex : (Male – M, Female – F) :
04. Medium of language you wish to sit this examination :
(Sinhala – S, Tamil – T, English – E)
05. Ethnicity :
(Sinhala – 1, Sri Lankan Tamil – 2, Muslim – 3,
Indian Tamil – 4, Burgher – 5, Malay – 6, Other – 7)
06. (i) Divisional Secretariat Division :—————.
(ii) Grama Niladhari Division :—————.
(iii) The date from which you are residing in the District :–—.
07. Citizenship :
(i) By descent :
(ii) By registration :

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2008
955
08. National Identity Card No. :—————.
09. (i) Date of Birth :—————.
Year :————, Month :————, Date :————.
(ii) Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
10.Educational Qualifications :
(i) Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Attempt :—————.
1. The year and month of the Examination :—————.
2. Index No. :—————.
3. Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(ii) Particulars of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Second Attempt :—————.
1. The year and month of the Examination :—————.
2. Index No. :—————.
3. Subjects passed :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
(iii) Particulars of G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
1. The year and Month of the Examination :—————.
2. Index No. :—————.
3. Examination Centre :—————.
Subject Grade
11. Other Qualifications :—————.
12. Have you been convicted by a court of Law for any Criminal
Offence ? :
Yes N o
If so given details :—————.
13. Survey Office to which the payment made ? :—————.
Receipt No. :—————.
Date of payment :—————.
(Receipt has to be affixed on page No. 3)
14. Certificate of the Candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
(b) I am also aware that if the statement made by me herein is
found to be false, I am liable to disqualification if detected
before selection and to dismissal from service, if detected
after appointment.
(c) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
(d) The cash receipt obtained after paying Rs. 200 as an
examination fee has been pasted into the specified place.
—————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.
15. Attestation of the Candidate's Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………… (Name) who is
submitting the application is personally known to me and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on …………
—————,
Signature of Attestor.
Date :—————.
Name of Attestor :—————.
Post :—————.
Address :—————.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
16. Recommendation of the Head of Department :
This Officer can be/cannot be released from service, if selected
for this post.
—————,
Signature of Head of Department.
Date :—————.
08–384
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY OF SPORTS AND PUBLIC RECREATION
Diploma Course in Sports - conducted by the National
Institute of Sports Science 2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from those between 18 - 35 years of
age who wish study the Course of Diploma in Sports to be

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2008
956
conducted in Sinhala medium by the National Institute of Sports
Science of the Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation.
01. Note : I. The age limit is not applicable to those who are
already in Public Service.
II. Applications which are not completed properly
will be rejected.
02. Educational and Other Qualifications :
2.1 Persons who have passed in six academic subjects, at the
G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination or its equivalent
(obtained at not more than two sittings) shall be eligible
to enrole to follow the Diploma course in sports ; provided
that two of the six passes shall be Sinhala or Tamil
Language and Arithmatic or Mathematics ; and
(i) has successfully completed a course of at least six
months duration at a recognized School of Sports or
Physical Education ; or
(ii) successfully completed a recognized course in Sports
or Physical Education at an Army, Navy or Air Force
Training School ; or
(iii) Possess outstanding achievements in the field of sports
with at least five year experience as a School Games
Master or Mistress or Playground and Instructor or
Instructress of a Local Authority ; or
(iv) has been a member of a National Team in any sport
and has taken part in any international Sports
Competition ; or
(v) has won the first or second place at a District Level
Competition of the National Sports Festival conducted
by the Ministry of Sports or has won the first, second
or third place at a National Level Competition held by
a National Sports Association.
03. Mode of Application :
3.1 Applications should be prepared in a paper 8 ″ x 13 1/2″
as per specimen application appearing at the end of this
notice.
Complete it in their own hand writing and send it by
registered post to reach, The Director, National Institute
of Sports Science, No. 100/7, Independence Avenue,
Colombo 07, on or before 12.09.2008.
3.2 On the top left-hand corner of the envelope containing
the application should be written “Application for the
Course of Diploma in Sports 2008”.
3.3 Applicants who are in Government, Local Government
and Corporation Services, should forward their
applications through the respective Head of Department/
Institutions.
04. Selection.– All those who have the necessary qualifications
will be called for a written examination and gained the required
score approved by the Board of Admission would be called for an
interview and practical examination and will thereafter be selected
to follow the course.
05. Details of the Course :
5.1 Contents of the syllabus is as follows :
(a) General Theory of Training (Study of the Physical
Qualities and Skills, Techniques, Tactics, Training
Methods, Aspects of Planning, principles of Load
and Tests)
(b) Theory and Practice of at least ten major sports.
(c) Specialization in Track and Field Athletics.
(d) Specialization in one Sport or Game, other than
Track and Field Athletics which has been offered to
the male or female students, either similarly or
differently, as the case may be, at the beginning of
the course.
(e) General subjects involving the study of Sports
Physiology and Sociology, Sports Administration
Organization Methods and Ceremonials in sports.
5.2 The duration of the Course is 12 months.
5.3 Those selected to follow the course who are not
employed should pay a course fee of Rs. 6,000 and
who are having jobs in Government Departments,
Corporations or Provincial Councils have to pay a
course fee of Rs. 10,000 personally or by the institution.
This payment will not be refunded for any reason.
5.4 Those who are selected are bound by the rules and
regulations of the National Institute of Sports Science.
5.5 Diploma in Sports Certificates will be awarded to those
who successfully complete this course.
06. Other Conditions :
6.1 The Ministry is not bound to provide employment to
those who complete the course.
6.2 But if the Ministry requires that those following this
Course should enter into an agreement with the Director
of the National Institute of Sports Science, they should
do so accordingly.
s

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2008'08'08
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.08.2008
957
6.3 The Director of the National Institute of Sports Science
will use his discretion on any matter not specified in
this notice.
S. L
IYANAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Sports and Public Recreation.
No. 7A, Reid Avenue,
Colombo 07,
21st July, 2008.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
D
IPLOMA IN SPORTS – 2008
01. (i) Full Name : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :––––––––––.
(ii) Name with Initials :––––––––––.
(iii) National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Private :––––––––––.
(ii) Official :––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Day :––––––––––.
Age on 12.09.2008 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
04. State whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :––––––––––.
If so by descent or by registration :––––––––––.
05. (i) Sex :––––––––––.
(ii) Marital Status :––––––––––.
06. Are you employed or not :
(i) Present Post :––––––––––.
(ii) Duration of the service :––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
Y ear Name of Examination Subjects Grade
08. Achievements in Sports (Certificates obtained and special
achievements) :––––––––––.
09. (i) According to the Gazette notification under which
qualification category (2.1 : i/ii/iii/iv/v) that you are eligible
to apply for the course :––––––––––.
(ii) Give details of qualifications relevant to the category
stated above :––––––––––.
10. Any other special remarks :––––––––––.
11. Whether you are prepared to pay a course fee of Rs. 6,000 or
Rs. 10,000 if selected :––––––––––.
I certify that the particulars given above are true and correct. I
am aware that if the Information given by me is found to be false or
incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified and removed from the course.
––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
For Government/Local Government/Corporation
Employees only :
Director,
National Institute of Sports Science
I recommend herewith the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss.
…………… employee of ……………… working as ………………
I certify that this applicant could be released for the period of the
Course if selected.
––––––––––,
Signature.
Name and Designation of
the certifying officer :––––––––––.
Official Rubber Stamp :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
08-396
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.