

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION FOR CHILD
DEVELOPMENT (SLACD) (INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. (Dr.) Mrs. Thusitha Wijemanne for Kegalle District
on 10th June, 2016
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 115]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on May 16, 2016)
to incorporate the Sri Lanka Association for Child
Development (SLACD)
2—PL 010001—225  (06/2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI LANKA ASSOCIATION FOR
CHILD DEVELOPMENT  (SLACD)
WHEREAS a Association called and known as the
“Sri Lanka Association for Child Development  (SLACD)”
has heretofore being formed in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting the objects and
matters connected with the said Association according to
the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant such application.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Association
for Child Development (SLACD) (Incorporation) Act,
No.    of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as presently are members of
the “Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD)” (hereinafter referred to as the “Association”)  or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession
under the name and style of the “Sri Lanka Association for
Child Development  (SLACD)”  and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
2—PL 009829—300 (03/2016)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Sri Lanka
Association
for Child
Development
(SLACD).

<!-- page 3 -->

Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote, facilitate and support the advancement
of professional knowledge and skills in child
development;
(b) to carry out, promote, facilitate and support research
and interest in child development and development
disorders in children;
(c) to strive for the development of children and welfare
of children with development disorders;
(d) to advocate to improve the quality of life of children
with development disorders and children in general
and their families;
(e) the purpose of the SLACD shall be to promote,
facilitate and support advancement of knowledge
and skills;
(f) research and interest in child development and
developmental disorders in children; and
(g) the SLACD will strive to apply these purposes for
the welfare of children concerned, their families
and the community through activities determined
by the Council of the SLACD.
SLACD may receive, use and hold donations and gifts,
financial and in other kind, in order to carry forward the
above mentioned purposes.
SLACD shall always be operated solely for the aforesaid
purposes, without discrimination, provided that no part of
its resources are used for the benefit of or be distributable to
any member, or office bearer of the SLACD or any private
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
individual, except that SLACD shall be authorized and
empowered to pay reasonable compensation for services
rendered and to make payments and distributions in
furtherance of the purposes set forth herein. Furthermore,
notwithstanding any other provision of these by-laws,
SLACD shall not carry on any other activities not permitted
to be carried on by a corporation exempt from income tax
under the Department of Inland Revenue. Furthermore, this
SLACD shall not engage in any activities or exercise any
powers t hat are not in furtherance of the purposes of SLACD.
Advocacy to improve the quality of life for those individuals
and families served by SLACD and its members is in
accordance with the purposes of SLACD. The SLACD shall
not participate in, or intervene in (including the publishing
and distribution of statements) any political campaign on
behalf of any candidate for public office. All such activities
must not exceed limitations as described in Article 2,
Section 2.
4. (1) There shall be 5 classes of members namely, Life
Members, Ordinary Members, Overseas Members, Honorary
Members and Associate Members. All members shall have
the right to attend meetings.
All members will have the right to vote except Associate
Members. The right to hold office shall be confined to Life
Members and Ordinary Members of SLACD.
Annual membership fees for Ordinary Members, Associate
Members and Foreign Members shall be amounts determined
by the Council. One-time fee for Life Membership shall also
be determined by the Council.
(2) The qualifications for Ordinary Members and Life
Members are as follows:—
(a) should be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
30
Membership.

<!-- page 5 -->

Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
(b) doctors with postgraduate qualifications who
manifest by their work a significant interest and
competence in child development and
developmental disorders and whose professional
activity is inconsistent with the purposes of the
SLACD;
(c) other individuals with appropriate postgraduate
qualifications who manifest by their work a
significant interest and competence in child
development and developmental disorders and
whose professional activity is consistent with the
purposes of the SLACD;
(d) other individuals with a degree and licentiates
who manifest by their work a significant interest
and competence in child development and
developmental disorders and whose professional
activity is consistent with the purposes of the
SLACD (based on the recommendation of the Head
of the institution they are currently associated with).
Honorary Members - Honorary Members shall be
members of the medical profession or related fields
of science who have been selected for the distinction
of Honorary Membership in the SLACD because of
their special accomplishment or acknowledged pre-
eminence in work related to the study or treatment
of child development and developmental disorders.
Overseas Members - Overseas Members shall be
members of the medical profession or other fields of
science at the doctoral level who shall manifest by
their work a significant interest in child development
and developmental disorders and reside outside
Sri Lanka whose professional activity is consistant
with the purposes of the SLACD and are non-citizens
of Sri Lanka.
Associate Members - Associate Members shall be
doctors who are in postgraduate training.
25
30
35

<!-- page 6 -->

5Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
(3) All applications for Membership shall be on a
SLACD application form approved by the Council and
presented to the Secretary of the SLACD or his/her
delegate. As indicated under Section 4 (3), the application
should include a recommendation by relevant authority. The
Secretary shall review each application for suitability to
be admitted to SLACD and submit with recommendations
to the Council. The Council shall take the final action.
(4) In the event that one or more Members of the SLACD
shall object to admission of a Member recommended for
submit admission by the Council, then shall forth in writing
his/her (their) reasons for protesting admission of the
Member. If such written response is not received within 30
days of the council’s request, the objection(s) shall be
considered withdrawn. On receiving such written
objection(s), the council shall consider it (them) in whatever
reasonable manner is deemed appropriate by the President
of SLACD. The objection(s) may be rejected by the council,
or the member may be given an opportunity to respond to
the objection(s) in any appropriate manner. In any event, an
application for membership shall be either approved or
rejected within 120 days of its presentation to the Secretary
or his/her delegate.
(5) The Annual Meeting of members shall be held at such
time and place as shall be determined by the council of the
SLACD. Such meetings shall be held for the transaction of
such  business as may properly come before the meeting.
The Annual Meeting shall consist of scientific sessions
whenever possible. Recognition of new members shall take
place at each Annual Meeting.
(6) Special meetings may be called by the President of
the SLACD by a majority of the council or upon petition of
15 or more of the Members of the SLACD.
(7) Written or printed notice of each meeting of Members
of the SLACD, stating the place, day, and hour of the meeting
and, in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 7 -->

Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
6
which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not less than
five (5) or more than sixty (60) days before the date of the
meeting, either personally or by mail, to each Member. If
mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when
deposited in the Sri Lanka Post, addressed to the Member at
his most recent address as it appears on the register of the
SLACD.
(8) A quorum for the transaction of business at any
meeting of the Members of the SLACD shall be at least ten
precent (10%) of the voting members registered at the
meeting, including a majority of the council. Every act or
decision of a majority of Members present at a duly calld
and held meeting at which a quorum is present, made or
done when assembled, shall be valid as the act of the
Members. The Members present at a duly called and held
meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to do
business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal
of enough Members to leave less than the quorum.
(9) Any action required or permitted to be taken by the
Membership under any provision of law, the Articles of
Incorporation, or these by-laws may be taken without a
meeting if all Members shall individually or collectively
consent in writng to such action. Such written consent or
consents shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings
of the Membership. Action by written consent shall have
the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of such
Membership.
(10) Names of all Members, Associate Members,
Overseas Members and Honorary Members shall be
entered in a Register and shll be maintained by the Joint
Secretaries. Members shall be responsible for keeping their
corresponding addresses up to date by informing and
changes to the Joint Secretaries.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
5. (1) Upon the recommendation of the Council, any
Member of any class may be expelled by an affirmative vote
of three-fourths of the Membership present at an Annual
Meeting of the SLACD, provided that a copy of the charges
against him/her with a written notice of the hearing thereon
by the Council at a special time and place, shall have been
delivered to him/her personally or mailed to his/her last
known address, not less than 90 days before the date of such
hearing, and further provided, that the Member charged shall
have the right to appear before the Council in defense of the
charges.
(2) Any Member who has not paid his/her dues for the
current year by 31 March shall have his/her Membership
discontinued. Membership may be reinstated at any time
thereafter by payment of one year’s delinquent dues and the
current dues.
(3) Any Member of the SLACD in good standing may
request of the Council a leave of absence for a period of not
more than two years. When a Member so requests, a waiver of
dues during the leave of absence may be granted by the
Council. Any further extension of the leave of absence shall
be dependent on the Member submitting a request for further
extension, and favourable action on the request by the
Council.
6. (1) Except as otherwise provided by these by-laws,
the powers of the SLACD shall be exercided, its property
controlled, and its affairs conducted by the Council of SLACD.
(2) The Council shall consist of fifteen (15) members:
Seven (7) elected officers. The President, Vice-President,
President-elect, two Secretaries, Treasurer, Assistant
Treasurer, Two (2) most recently retired Presidents of the
SLACD, Four (4) members from the General Membership, three
(3) of whom shall represent Paediatrics, Child and Adolescent
Psychiatry and Allied Health professionals, one each.
Cancellation
of
Membership.
Power of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
8
Two non-voting members shall represent the Sri Lanka
College of Paediatricians, College of Community Physicians.
(3) At the Annual Meeting of the Membership, the fifteen
members of the Council shall be nominated form the floor
and elected by a majority vote of the General Membership.
Two ex-officio non-voting Members shall be nominated by
the Sri Lanka College of Paediatricians and College of
Community Physicians.
(4) Council Members shall be elected for a two (2) year
term. At the end of the term in office, no person shall succeed
themselves to the same office of the Council.
(5) Any candidate for office must have been a member of
SLACD for at least two (2) years.
(6) Any of the Council Members may be removed from
office by a majority vote of the Council at any meeting. In
the event that any one or more of the elected Council Members
may be so removed new Council Members may be elected
at the same meeting to fill the unexpired terms of the Council
Member so removed.
(7) Any vacancies of the Council Members may be filled
by the remaining Council Members at an annual or special
meeting of the Council as provided in these by-laws. A
vacancy may be filled only for the unexpired protion of its
term.
(8) The Council of the SLACD shall meet at least once
every two months. Such meeting shall be held for the
transaction of such business as may properly come before the
meeting. Any other meeting of the Council shall be held at
such time and place as may be designated by the President.
At least 14 days advance notice in writing of time and place
of this meeting shall be given to each Member of the Council.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
(9) A quorum to transact business shall consist of a majority
of the Council Members of the SLACD then in office. Every
act or decision of a majority of the Council Members present
at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present, made or
done when assembled, shall be vaild as an act of the Council.
(10) The transactions of the Council Members at any
meeting, however called or noticed or wherever held, shall
be as valid as though duly held after regular call and notice if
a quorum by present, and if, either before or after the meeting,
each Council Member not present signs a written waiver of
notice or a consent to the holding of such meeting, or an
approval of the minutes thereof, all such waivers, consents,
or approvals shall be filed with the corporate records and
made a part of the minutes of the meeting.
(11) Any action required or permitted to be taken by the
Council under any provision of law, or these by-laws may be
taken without a meeting if all Council Members shall
individually or collectively consent in writing to such action.
Such written consent or consents, or approvals shall be filed
with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board. Action by
written consent shall have the same force and effect as a
unanimous vote of such Council Members.
(12) Special meetings of the Council may be called by the
President or a majority of the Council Members. The person
or persons calling the meeting shall specify the time and
place of such meeting.
(13) Written notice of the time and place of meetings of
the Council shall be delivered to each Council Member of
the SLACD personally or by mail or other form of written
communication, charges prepaid, addressed to him either at
his address as it is shown on the Register of the SLACD, or if
it is not shown on such records or is not readily ascertainable,
to the place at which the meetings of the Council is regularly
held. Such notice shall be delivered at least 72 hours
prior to the time of the holding of the meeting.
5
10
15
20
25
30
35

<!-- page 11 -->

Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
10
(14) A Council Member of the SLACD who is present at a
meeting of the Council at which action on any corporate
matter is taken shall be conclusively presumed to have
assented to the action taken, unless his dissent to such action
shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting, or unless he
files his written dissent to such action with the Secretary of
the meeting before the adjournment thereof. Such right to
dissent shall not apply to a Council Member who voted in
favour of such action.
(15) All officers shall be elected at the Annual General
Meeting by a majority vote of the genenral membership of
the SLACD.
(16) None of the SLACD officers are eligible for re-election
to succeed themselves to the same office. The President elect
will succeed the President.
The SLACD President shall be the Chief Executive Officer
and, subject to the supervisions of the Council of the SLACD,
shall have general supervision and direction of the business
and affairs. The President shall preside at all meetings of the
Council of the SLACD and shall have such other duties and
responsibilities as may from time to time be determined by
the Council. The President may permit any and all shares
held by the SLACD in any other corporation. He or she shall
be an ex-officio  and a voting Member of all standing
committees and shall have the general powers and duties as
may be specified by the Council, or by these by-laws. The
President should possess and MD or PhD.
(17) In the absence of the President, or in the event of his
or her inability to act, the Vice President shall perform the
duties of the President and, when so acting, shall have all the
powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the
President. The Vice President should possess and MD or PhD.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 12 -->

11Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
The Secretary shall—
(a) keep the minutes and records of the meetings of the
Council;
(b) see that all notices are duly gived in accordance with
provisions of these by-laws or as required by-law; and
(c) in general, perform all duties incident to the office of
Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be
assigned to him by the President.
(18) The Treasurer of SLACD shall keep and maintain or
cause to be kept and maintained adequate and correct
accounts of the properties and business transactions,
including accounts of its assets, liabilities, receipts,
disbursements, gains and losses. The books of accounts shall
at all time be opened to inspection by any Council Member.
The Treasurer shall deposit all moneys and other valuables
in the name and to the credit of the SLACD in such
depositories as may be designated by the Council Members.
He shall disburse the funds of the SLACD as shall be ordered
by the Council. The Treasurer shall render to the President,
and the Council, whenever any of them shall request, an
accounting of all of his transactions and of the financial
condition of the Council, shall take proper vouchers for
disbursements of the funds of the Council. The Treasurer
shall have such other powers and perform such othe duties as
may be prescribed by the President, or by the Council.
(19) Any officers may be removed from office for cause by
two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Council. Any vacancies among
the officers between the meetings, arising from any cause,
shall be filled by vote of the Council.
7. The Executive Committee shall be composed of the 7
elected officers and the 2 ex-officio, with the President as
Chairperson. During the interim between the Council it will
5
10
15
20
25
30 Committees.

<!-- page 13 -->

Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
12
act on urgent matters or on matters referred to it by the
Executive Committee are subject to ratification by the
Council. The Standing Committees shall be elected or
appointed by the Council as and when necessary to develop
and carry out the business of the SLACD.
All Committees of SLACD shall report directly to the
Council, unless the Council otherwise directs.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequest,
donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grant for an
on account of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or
more banks approved by the Board to the credit of the
Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out or the fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under the Act.
9. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
In this section “qualified auditor” means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts of
the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which,being a member of the institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains any property whatsoever, after the satisfaction
of all debts and liabilities such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is or
are by its  rules prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its or  their members. Such institution or
institutions may be determined by the members of the
Committee of Management on or before the dissolution of
the Corporation.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman/Managing Director or two other members of the
Corporation as may be decided by the Committee of
Management  who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
12. Nothing contained in this Act, shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, any body politic or corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
20
25
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 15 -->

Sri Lanka Association for Child Development
(SLACD) (Incorporation)
14
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .