

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price :  Rs. 17.00  Postage  :  Rs. 10.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist  Republic  of  Sri Lanka of April 25,  2014.
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 24th April,  2014]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 7 OF 2014

<!-- page 2 -->

Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
1
2—PL 008090—3000 (03/2014)
[Certified on 24th April, 2014]
L.D. – O. 4/2014
AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax
(Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2014 and shall be deemed to
have come into operation on January 1, 2014.
2. Section 3 of the Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
amended as follows:-
(a) by the renumbering of that section as subsection
(1) thereof;
(b) in the renumbered subsection (1) of that section, by
the repeal of paragraph (f) and the substitution
therefor of the following:-
“(f) any person or a partnership having total
supplies for any consecutive period of three
months in any calendar year of not less than
rupees two hundred and fifty million, including
the supplies under the preceding paragraphs
of this section and any supplies exempted
under Part II of the First Schedule:”;
(c) by the repeal of the second proviso to that section
and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“Provided further, the chargeability to tax
referring to any registered person specified in
paragraph ( f) shall be subject to the exemption
granted under section 8, subject to the conditions
specified therein:”;
Short title and
date of
operation.
Amendment of
section 3 of Act,
No.14 of 2002.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
(d) immediately after subsection (1) of that section, by
the insertion of the following:-
“(2) For the purposes of paragraph ( f), the total
supplies  means, the aggregate value of
supplies of-
(i) any person or partnership engaged in
the wholesale or retail business while
carrying on other business of similar
nature in one place or different places
under one or more registrations for the
purposes of this Act; and
(ii) with r egard to any subsidiary or
associated company of a group of
companies, engaged in the wholesale
or retail business, the aggregate value
of supplies of each company of the
group, other than any company not
engaged in the wholesale or retail
business.”.
3. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “in the First
Schedule to this Act as such supplies and imports are not
taxable unless zero rated under section 7.” of the following:-
“in the First Schedule to this Act as such supplies and
imports are not taxable unless zero rated under
section 7:
Provided that, in the case of a registered person
referred to in paragraph (f) of section 3 of this Act, the
value of the supply of goods exempted under this Act
made by such registered person directly or on behalf
of any other person, which is in excess of   twenty five
per centum of the total supply of such registered person
other than zero rated supplies and where the supply is
Amendment of
section 8 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
3
made by the importer himself, the value of such supply
of goods subject to Special Commodity Levy, shall
notwithstanding the provisions contained in the
Special Commodity Levy Act, No. 48 of 2007 be
deemed to be treated as liable supplies of such
registered person and chargeable to tax  at the rate
specified in section 2 of this Act using the fraction on
the tax inclusive consideration:
Provided further, in the case of a registered person -
(a) who supplies  pharmaceuticals, specified as
exempted  in  PART II of the First Schedule
to this Act; or
(b) who supplies software dedicated products
including computers and computer
accessories, exceeding seventy  five per
centum  of the total value of supplies
respectively of such registered person under
paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this proviso,
as the case may be, such registered person
shall not be liable to tax on  any deemed
liable supplies  referred to in this section.”.
4. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “is not less than rupees five hundred million”
of the words “is not less than rupees two hundred and fifty
million”.
5. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after the first proviso
to subsection (1) of that section, of the following:-
“Provided further, any tax invoice shall not be issued on
the supplies considered as deemed liable supplies referred
to in section 8 of this Act.”.
6. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately after subsection (11)
of that section, the following:-
“(12) in the case of a person engaged in the insurance
business and carrying on both long term insurance
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 22 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
business and general insurance business, and who
segregates such long term insurance business and the
general insurance business into two separate companies,
as required by section 53 of the Regulation of Insurance
Industry (Amendment) Act, No. 3 of 2011, the balance, if
any, of the amount unabsorbed input credit relating to
the business of  general insurance as at the date of such
segregation, shall notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other provision of this Act, but subject to
the preceding provisions of this section, be treated as an
unabsorbed input credit  by the company carrying on the
general insurance business after such segregation.
(13) any unabsorbed input credit of any bank
established under the Banking Act, No.30 of 1988 or
Finance Company licensed under the Finance Business
Act, No.42 of 2011, relating to the liable business of such
bank or finance company as at the date of acquisition or
merger of such bank or finance company, as the case may
be, shall be allowed to be claimed subject to the
provisions of this Act, and in accordance with the
guidelines issued by the Central Bank for this purpose.”.
7. Section 25C of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (4) by the repeal of that subsection
and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in
subsection (1), any person to whom this Chapter
applies-
(a) may in writing communicate to the
Commissioner-General, his intention to
calculate subject to the provisions of
subsection (5), the tax to which he is liable in
respect of any month commencing on or after
July 1, 2003 but for the period prior to January
1, 2014. The provisions of subsection (5)
Amendment of
section 25C of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
5
shall however be applicable for the period
subsequent to the communication in writing
to the Commissioner-General which
communication shall not be revocable.
(b) shall for any month commencing from
January 1, 2014, be subject to the provisions
of subsection (5).”.
8. Section 25D of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “a tax credit shall
be allowed” of the words and figures “a tax credit shall be
allowed for any taxable period prior to January 1, 2014”.
9. Section 40 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (iii) of the proviso to
that section and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“(iii) as regards movable property –
(a) for any taxable period ending prior to January
1, 2014, where tax for more than four taxable
periods is in default, the tax for four taxable
periods only to be selected by the
Commissioner-General shall rank in priority
to any lien or encumbrance created bona fide
for value prior to the date of default of such
tax; and
(b) for any taxable period commencing on or
after January 1, 2014, where the tax for more
than taxable periods for five years is in default,
the tax for taxable periods within five years
only to be selected by the Commissioner-
General, shall rank in priority to any lien or
encumbrance created bona fide for value prior
to the date of default of such tax.”.
Amendment of
section 25D of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 40 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
10. Section 71 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of item (ii) of subsection (2) of that
section and the substitution therefor of the following:-
“(ii) ( a) ten  per  centum for the period prior to  January
1, 2014;
(b) Six  per  centum for any period from or after
January 1, 2014
of the tax collected by the Director-General of
Customs on importation of goods referred to in
subsection (3) of section 2 on or before the fifteenth
day of the month immediately succeeding that month
and each month thereafter.”.
11. Section 83 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the definition of the expression “international
transportation” by the addition immediately after paragraph
(c) thereof, of the following new paragraph:-
“(d) from an international airport in Sri Lanka to another
international airport in Sri Lanka by way of air
transportation.”.
12. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
hereby amended in Part II thereof as follows:-
(1) in paragraph (a) of that Part, -
(a) by the repeal of item (i) and the substitution
therefor of the following:-
“(i) wheat, wheat flour or powdered milk;”;
(b) by the repeal of item (iii) and the substitution
therefor of the following:-
“(iii) ayurvedic preparations which belong
to the Ayurveda Pharmacopoeia or
ayurvedic preparations (otherthan
Amendment of
the First
Schedule of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 71 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 83 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
7
cosmetic preparations) or unani, siddha
or homeopathic preparations (other
than cosmetic preparations identified
under the Harmonized Commodity
Description and Coding System
Numbers for custom purposes) and raw
materials for such preparations with the
recommendation of the Commissioner
of Ayurveda;”;
(c) by the repeal of item (viii) and the
substitution therefor of the following:-
“(viii) agricultural tractors or road tractors
for semi-trailers prior to January 1,
2014;”;
(d) in item (xxii), by the repeal of sub item (vi)
and the substitution therefor of the
following:-
“(vi) bowsers, bulldozers, graders, levelers,
excavators,  firefighting vehicles, gully
bowsers, semi-trailers for road tractors,
machinery, equipment used for garbage
disposal activities or garbage trucks;”;
(e) by the addition immediately after item (vii)
the following new item:-
“(viii) ties and bows or designer pens;”;
(f) by the addition immediately after item (xxiii)
of the following items:-
“(xxiv) frozen bait, fish hooks/rods/ reels ,
fishing tackle and marine propulsion
engines  identified  under the
Harmonized Commodity
Description and Coding System
Numbers for Custom proposes.;

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
(xxv) copper cables for telecom industry -
- imported  where such copper cables
are not available is Sri Lanka; or -
-purchased from a local
manufacturer.”.
(2) in paragraph ( b) of that Part:-
(i) by the repeal of item (xiii) and the
substitution therefor of the following item:-
“(xiii) imported unprocessed timber logs,
ships , rattans or any article subject
to the Special Commodity Levy
under the Special Commodity Levy
Act, No. 48 of 2007 subject to the
condition that such goods are sold
by the importer himself without any
processing except adaptation for
sale;”;
(ii) by the repeal of item (xxxi) and the
substitution therefor of the following:-
“(xxxi) telecommunication services
subject to the telecommunication
levy under the Telecommunication
Levy Act, No. 21 of 2011;”;
(iii) by the addition immediately after item (xLvi)
of the following new items:-
“(xLvii) desiccated coconut, rubber, latex,
tea including green leaf, rice,  rice
flour, bread,  eggs , liquid milk so
far as such products are
manufactured locally;

<!-- page 10 -->

Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
9
(xLviii) machinery or equipment for tea or
rubber  industry  or  agricultural
tractors or road tractors for semi-
trailers, so far as such products are
manufactured locally;
(xLix) services by any headquarters or
regional head offices of institutions
in the international network
relocated in Sri Lanka as exempted
for income tax purposes under
section 7 of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 10 of 2006,  so far as such
receipts are  in foreign currency
received.
(L) locally manufactured  ayurvedic
preparations which belong to the
Ayurveda Pharmacopoeia or
Ayurveda preparations (other than
cosmetic preparations) or unani,
siddha or homeopathic
preparations (other than cosmetic
preparations).”.
(3) in item (xvi) of paragraph ( c) of that Part by the
substitution for the words “machinery identified
under” of the words and figures “machinery prior
to January 1, 2014 identified under”.
13. In the principal enactment, -
(a) by the substitution for the word “Commissioner”
wherever that word appears of the words “Senior
Commissioner”;
(b) by the substitution for the words “Deputy
Commissioner” wherever such words appear of the
word “Commissioner”;
General
amendment to
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
(c) by the substitution for the word “Senior Assessor”
wherever such word appears of the words “Senior
Commissioner” or  “Deputy Senior Commissioner”;
(d) by the substitution for the word “Assessor”
wherever such word appears of  the words “Assessor”
or  “Assistant Commissioner”.
14. Any person who is authorized to collect the Value
Added Tax as provided for in this Act during any period
commencing from January 1, 2014 and ending on the date
on which the Certificate of the Speaker is endorsed in respect
of this Act shall be deemed to have acted with due authority
and such collection shall be deemed to have been, and to be,
validly made and such person is hereby indemnified against
all actions civil or criminal, in respect of such collection :
Provided that, the aforesaid provisions shall not affect
any decision or Order made by any Court or any proceedings
pending in any Court in respect of any tax collected as
provided for in this Act during such period.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Validation.

<!-- page 12 -->

Value Added Tax  (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2014
11
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .