

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'03'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.03.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl  1852$74  - 2014 ud¾;= ui 07 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'03'07
No. 1852/74  -  FRIDAY ,  MARCH  07,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
ANIMAL   DISEASES  ACT,  No. 59  OF  1992
Order  of Declaration of Infected Area under Section 5 and Consequential Arrangements
WHEREAS,  Foot and Mouth Disease a Specified Disease within the meaning of the Animal Diseases Act,  No. 59 of 1992,
has been reported to have occurred in several areas of the Gampaha District of the Western  Province, I, Dr. W. K. De Silva,
the Director General of Animal Production and Health, do, by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section
5(1) of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992, declare by this Order that –
(a) Gampaha District of the Western  Province to be infected area for the purposes and within meaning ;
(b) Cattle, Buffalo, Sheep, Goat and Pig shall be the susceptible species of Animal to this Disease ;
(c) this Order shall come into force on which it is published in the Gazette and shall, unless earlier revoked or further
extended in accordance with the Section 5(3) of the said Animal Diseases Act, cease to have effect at the
expiration of three months from the date hereof.
02. So long as this Order remains in force, I, the Director General of Animal Production and Health do
(1) Hereby prohibit the following activities within or in relation to the infected area for the purpose of preventing the
spread from and controlling and containing within, the infected area, of the said Foot and Mouth Disease.
(a) the performance of artificial breeding procedures in the susceptible species of animals ;
(b) the slaughter of susceptible species of Animal ;
(c) Holding or conducting Live Animal Markets, shows and competitions involving the susceptible species
of Animal
(d) sale, exposure for sale, offering for sale, store, supply or distribution of any animal of susceptible species,
animal products and infected material ;
(e) removal, taking or driving or transport  within, to or from the infected area, any animal of susceptible
species of animals, animal products or the risk material, without a Permit from the Government Veterinary
Surgeon of the respective Divisional Secretariat Division issued under Section 5(4) of the Animal Diseases
Act ;
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'03'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.03.2014
2A
(f) throwing or otherwise placing in any body of water, any carcass or any part thereof of an animal that at the
time of its death was suspected of being, affected or contaminated with the Foot and Mouth Disease or any
other risk material that is suspected of or contaminated with the Foot and Mouth Disease ; or
(g) Placing any carcass or any part thereof, of an animal that at the time of its death was suspected of being,
affected or contaminated with the Foot and Mouth Disease, in such manner as to facilitate other animal to
consume or taking away of those carcass or any part thereof to other places.
(2) declare, in terms of Section of 6 of the Said Animal Diseases Act, all the roads and thoroughfares situated within
the Infected area to be remaining Closed for Animal Traffic ;
(3) Declare, by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 6(3) of the Animal Diseases Act No.
59 of 1992 that Barriers for the purpose of giving effect to the Provisions of Section 6(1) and 6(2) be put up at such
places on the Roads and thoroughfares situated within the infected area as may be specified by the Government
Veterinary Surgeon of the respective infected area.
(4) by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 7 of that Act, hereby require every person who
has in his possession or under his control any animal of susceptible species within the Buffer Zone in the
infected area determined by the Government Veterinary Surgeon in charge of the Infected area to have that animal
vaccinated against Foot and Mouth Disease on such date and place as may be specified by the Government
Veterinary Surgeon of that area ;
(5) by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 38 of the Animal Diseases Act, nominate –
(a) The Following Officers of the Department to be Authorized Officer for the purposes of Section 3(3) to take
action to prevent the commission of the prohibited activities set out under paragraph 2 (a) of this Order and
to take legal action against those committing such prohibited activities and to exercise the powers of an
Authorized Officer under Section 13 of the Animal Diseases Act for that purpose.
(i) Director (Animal Health) of the Department of Animal Production and Health ;
(ii) De puty Director (Animal Health)
(iii) The Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health of the Western Province
(iv) V eterinary Sugeon (Head Quarters) of the Provincial Department of Animal Production and Health
(Western Province)
(v) The District Veterinary Surgeon of Gampaha District ;
(vi) The Government Veterinary Surgeons of the Gampaha District ;
and
(vii) Every Police Officers of the Sri Lanka Police.
(b) Every Police Officer of the Sri Lanka Police to be Authorized Officer for the purposes and within the
meaning of Section 6(3) of the Animal Diseases Act ;
(c) The Veterinary Investigation Officer of Gampaha District : (Welisara) to be an Authorized Officer for the
purposes discharging, within the area of his authority, the functions of an Authorized Officer under
Section 14 of the Animal Diseases Act No. 59 of 1992 and to exercise the powers of an Authorized Officer
under Section 13 of that Act ;
(d) Every Government Veterinary Surgeon of the Gampaha District to be the Veterinary Sugeon for the purpose
of exercising the powers, duties and functions of a Veterinary Surgeon under section 3(2), 5(4), 12(1) and
12(2) of that Act.
(e) Every Government Veterinary Surgeon of the Gampaha District to be an Authorized Officer for the purpose
of performing and discharging the duties and functions of an Authorized Officer under Section 9 and 11 of
that Act and to exercise the powers of an Authorized Officer under Section 13, for that purpose.
D
R. W. K. DE SILV A,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
 03 – 644
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.