

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1988
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1978
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"081 – 2018 cQ,s ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'07'20
No. 2,081  –  fRiday ,  July 20, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th august, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 26th July, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1975-B 81431- 5,403 (07/2018)
Note.–  (i) t wentieth amendment to the constitution Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 06, 2018.
 (ii) People's Bank (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 06, 2018.
N. B.–   Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,080 of 13.07.2018 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1976
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1977
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1978
Posts – vacant
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  NAvAL  fORCE 
Vacancies for Sailors in the Artificer Branch  
V acaNciES exist in the Arificer Branch of the Sri Lanka 
Regular Naval force for recruit sailors.
2. applications are called from male candidates 
possessing the following qualifications Candidates should 
essentially fulfill the following general conditions to get 
recruited to the Sri lanka Regular Naval force.
Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions 
for enlistment in the Sri lanka Regular Naval force.
 (1)  Nationality :- Must be a citizen of Sri lanka
 (2)  age:- Not less than 18 years and not more than 24  
 years as at 28.09.2018
 (3)  Height:- must not be less than 5 feet and 5 inches
 (4)  Weight:- must not less than 47 kg (105 pounds)
 (5)  chest :- must not be less than 32 inches
 (6)  colour Vision:- Std ii
 (7)  Visual acuity:- left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6  
   (without Spectacles and lenses)
 (8)  civil Status:- candidates must be unmarried. No  
   recruit will be permitted to get  
   married whilst under training.
3. Education Qualification :
 (a)  Qualified persons will be recruited to the following 
divisions for the National diploma in technology 
full-time course offered by Sir John Kothalawala 
defence university.
 (1)  National diploma in technology (Naval 
Engineering)
 (2)  National diploma in technology (Electrical 
Engineering)
 (3)  National diploma in technology (Electrical 
and Electronic Engineering)
 (4)  National diploma in technology (automotive 
Engineering)
 (5)  National diploma in technology (Hull 
Engineering and Ship construction)
 (b)  Should have passed the G. c. E. (o/l) Examination 
in not more than two attempts with 06 subjects 
including English, Science and with a credit pass 
for Mathematics. Moreover, should have passed 
the G. c. E. (a/l) Examination in one sitting with 
simple passes for combined maths and physics. 
(A certified copy of the results sheet issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations should be 
sent attached to the application form)
Note.- additional subjects will not be taken into  
  consideration for G. C. E. (O/L) qualification  
  but due consideration will be given to  
  outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Applications of candidates who have not fulfilled the 
requirements of Para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be 
measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight are 
below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification 
and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the 
service may at the discretion of the commander of the Sri 
lanka Navy be considered even though he may not have 
the requisite height provided he possesses the requisite 
academic and professional qualifications.
5. Service conditions :
 (a)  candidates will be initially enlisted as recruits 
and they are required to undergo basic training 
courses.
 (b)  during and after the period of training the recruits 
shall be subjects to the Naval law.
 (c)  all the recruits will be provided with uniforms and 
other equipment.
 (d)  during the period of training the recruits will be 
provided with accommodation and food  by the Sri 
lankan Navy.
 (e)  during the training period, if a recruit desires to get 
his candidature dismissed, the recruit is required 
to pay back to the government of Sri lanka all 
the expenses incurred so far by government of Sri 
lanka for his training.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1979
 (f)  during the training period, due to a misconduct 
of the recruit or due to any other reason which 
the recruit is responsible for, if the responsible 
authorities determine that he is not eligible for the 
service of the Navy, the recruit, on that occasion 
itself, should enter into a Bond with the Navy 
commander as the representative of the Socialist 
democratic Republic of Sri lanka agreeing that 
he will pay back all costs incurred for him to the 
Sri lanka Navy.
 (g) Either for duties or training, all Naval Officers are 
bound to be attached to any part of Sri lanka or a 
foreign country.
6. Official Languages Requirements.– the selected 
candidates are required to obey all commands and 
legislation that have already been and likely to be enacted 
for implementation of the official languages policy that 
comes under the Official Languages Act, No. 33 of 1956.
7. Salaries and Allowances.– the payments from the 
date 01.01.2016 will be made according to the Management 
Services circular No. 03/2016. accardingly,
 (a) Basic salary – Rs. 20,798.00
 (b) cost of living – Rs. 7,800.00
 (c) uniform cleaning allowance – Rs. 170.00
 (d) Hardline allowance (operational areas)  - Entitled 
after basic training
 (e) Hardline allowance 
  (Non-operational areas) – Entitled after basic  
     training Special   
     allowance 
       Rs. 1000.00 
 (f) other allowances –  Special additional  
       allowance - Rs. 2,400.00
 (g) adjustment allowance – Rs. 9,822.00
  t otal salary – Rs. 38,876.00
Note.– Sailor's basic salary by 01.01.2020 will be  
Rs. 30,140.00 and he will be entitled to the 
following increments.
  01.01.2016 – 176x5 -210x19
  01.01.2020- 300x5 -370x19
 (h) three sets of railway warrants per year will be 
granted (as applicable to the sailor, spouse, 
children and dependents)
 (j) an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for the sailors living 
in the camp to travel from the billet to their 
hometown will be granted once a month.
 (k) free medical facilities will be provided (as 
applicable to the sailor, spouse, children and 
dependents)
 (l) Married sailors who are not residing in 
government quarters will be entitled to a house 
rent allowance from Rs. 1,600.00 to Rs. 3,300.00
 (m) Quarters will be provided to the married sailors 
based on the availability of vacancies in the 
quarters reserved for married sailors.
8. Instructions to Applicants :-
 a. Duly filled Application by the candidate himself with 
clear handwritings should be submitted as per the 
specimen application to SENioR Staff officER 
(REcRuitMENtS), Na Vy HEadQuaR tERS, 
P.o. BoX 593 and coloMBo by registered 
post before 12.00 noon of 28
th September 2018. 
applications that are not sent by registered post will 
be rejected. ''Recruitment of Artificer Sailors'' should 
be indicated on the top left corner of the envelope. 
Late applications and unqualified applications will 
not be entertained. for further information, please 
contact 0112215154 or visit www.navy.lk.
 b. candidates who are in Government Service/   
corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments should 
forward their applications through their Heads of 
department/ corporations / Boards/ civil Establish-
ments and should bear a certificate to the effect that 
the candidate will be released if selected.
 c. candidates will be required to produce the originals 
of the following documents when summoned for 
interviews or when called upon to do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth;
 (2) Certificates in support of the educational  
qualifications required for the branch applied 
for;
 (3) School leaving certificate;
 (4) Grama Niladhari certificate (Taken within six 
month to closing date);

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1980
 (5) Certificates of trade/ technical training and 
/ or experience (if any) obtained from a  
recognized institution;
 (6) Three recent certificates of character. One of 
these should be from the Principal of the last 
school attended and the other from a respon-
sible person who has known the applicant 
for more than two years, or from the present  
employer (if employed);
 (7) Certificates in support or sports activities.
 d. applications of candidates who fail to produce  
documents when requested to do so will not be  
considered.
 e. No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 f.  the Sri lanka Navy will not be responsible for loss 
of any originals of certificates if  enclosed with the 
application form.
09. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
10. Selection interviews etc:-
 a. Candidates who fulfill the above conditions required 
to undergo the Preliminary medical test prescribed 
by the Sri lanka Navy. only the candidates who 
pass the medical test should undergo the following 
physical  Endurance test. the candidates  who pass 
the said physical Endurance test shall have to be  
appeared at an interview before a Selecting Board.
 b. Requirements to be fulfilled at the Physical  
Endurance test :
Exercise Time 
(minutes/ Seconds)
Rounds
1600 m run
Push up
Sit up
arm Bending
07 minutes and 30 seconds
02 minutes
02 minutes
02 minutes
-
20 or more
15 or more
07 or more
 c. candidates selected for interviews will be informed 
in writing, of the place, time and date of such  
interviews. travelling or other expenses will not be 
paid in this respect.
 d. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
an interview he is to produce his National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of 
persons.
 e. Candidates likely to be suitable for their final  
interviews will be required to present themselves 
before a  Sri lanka Navy Medical Board.
 f. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection 
of a candidate will result  in disqualification of such 
candidate.
 g. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified.
Note.- this Gazette notification will be published in the three  
languages i. e. Sinhala, tamil and English. in case of any 
inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and English texts, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 SS RaNaSiNGHE, WWV , RWP,  
 VSV , uSP, ndc, psc, aoWc
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
Naval Headquarters,
Post Box 593,
colombo 01.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1981
aPPlicatioN foR PoSt of REcRuit aRtificER iN tHE SRi laNKa NaVy
01. Nationality :––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration and if registration, quote number and date of certificate)
02. Stream applied (in priority order) :––––––––––.
03. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
04. National identity card Number :––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :––––––––––.
06. Postal address :––––––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––.
08. age :
 y ears :––––––––. Months :–––––––.days:––––––––. (as at 28th September, 2018) :
09. Height :––––––––––, (inch) 
 chest :–––––––––, (inch) Weight :––––––––––, (kg)
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :  ––––––––––.
11.  district :––––––––––.
12. Electorate :––––––––––.
13. G.S. division :––––––––––.
14.telephone Number :––––––––––.
15. civil Status :––––––––––.
16. Gender :––––––––––.
17. School attended :––––––––––.
18. Particulars of School or university attended :
 
Name of
School/
University
Type of
examination
Year of
examination
Subject passed 
(including
Grading)
ordinary
level:
advanced
level:
other :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1982
19.  Particulars of employment since leaving School/university (if applicable) :
  
Name and address
of employer
Nature of
employment
Period of Service
From         To
20. Particulars of Parents :-
 
Full Name Place of
Birth
Occupation Present 
Address
father
Mother
21.  Any Special qualification for the post :––––––––––.
22.  details of current achievements in sports (Give details of teams and competitions participated in with dates/ years etc. 
and standards/ levels achieved) :–––––––––.
23. other achievements of note at School/university or at outside organizations (Give details with dates/years etc.) :–––––.
24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization :–––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri lanka Navy or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and the 
outcome of such applications :––––––––––.
26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military court, if so give details :––––––––––.
27. if employed earlier in a Government department or in the Public Sector/Board/corporation (including the central Bank, 
National Bank, universities, Joint Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of 
employment :––––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials :
  
Name Designation Postal Address
29. declaration to be signed by the applicant :
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and 
belief. i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for the Artificer Branch in the Sri Lanka Navy, published in the Gazette of the Government of 
Sri lanka.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
07-625

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1983
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of Defence
Recruitment on open basis for the post of Director General (Special Grade of the Executive Officer Category) of the 
Research and Development Center coming under the Ministry of Defence
Applications are invited form Sir Lankan Citizens who fulfill qualifications indicated in this notification to fill the vacancy 
exists in the post of director General of the Research and development center coming under the Ministry of defence.
 01.  Mode of Recruitment :
  the applicant who obtained the highest marks on results of the aptitude Evaluation interview conducted by a 
Panel of aptitude Evaluation interview which is appointed by the public service commission will be recruited 
from among applicants who have fulfilled qualifications mentioned in the notification.Aptitude interviews will 
be held as per the marking scheme approved by the public service commission (mentioned under No. 06)
 02.  Required Qualifications :
 I. Education qualifications.
  Having obtained a General degree from a university recognized by the university Grant commission and 
Master of Art/Master of science in a Subject field relevant to the post of Engineering science/ Information 
technology.
 ii. Experience :
 (a) For Government officers.
  Having completed an active and Satisfactory period of service not less than eighteen (18) years      
with a five years (05) active and satisfactory period of service in grade I of the Executive Officer 
Category and having earned a Salary increment of five (05) years after Promoting to Grade 1 and 
completed a five (05) years active and Satisfactory period to Service immediately preceding as at the 
date of which the Qualifications are Examined ;
or
 (b) Having Completed a five years (05) Satisfactory Service in the relevant field in a post of Major 
General of the Sri Lanka Army or as an Officer of an Armed Service Parallal to the same rank.
 III. Professional Qualifications : If Professional qualifications have been acquired, Such qualifications will be 
treated as additional qualifications.
 IV . Physical requirements : Applicant should be Physically and mentally fit to perform duties of the post and 
to service in any part of the island.
 V . Other Qualifications :
  Every applicant,
 (a) Should be a Sri lankan citizen,
 (b) Should have an excellent character,
 (c) Should be fulfilled the qualifications in all aspect for the recruitment to the post as at the closing date of 
applications.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1984
 03. terms and conditions of Employment :
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. Should be Subjected to policy decisions taken by the government on 
the pension scheme in due course.
 ii. this appointment should be subjected to the procedural rules of the public Service commission, the 
Establishment code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial regulations of the Government 
and to the other departmental regulations.
 04. age limit :
  Should not be less than 40 years of age and not more than 50 years of age as at the closing date applications.
 05. Salary Scale :
  this post is entitled a monthly salary scale of Rs. 88,000.00/- – 2700X12 – Rs. 12,400.00/- (Salary code No. Sl  
– 03-2016 of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 of 25.02.2016)
 06. Following marking Scheme is based for Interview of evaluating aptitudeness. :
Subject Marks Maximum 
marks
01 Additional  Educational  Qualifications :
(a) General degree obtained from a Recognized university
	For pass in first class     
	for higher Pass in Second class    
	first pass in Second class 
(b) Having Obtained a master of art/Master of Science in Subject field relevant 
to the post of Engineering Science/information technology.
10
07
03 20
10
02 Professional Qualifications:
Having obtained a membership in the Sri lanka engineering institute or in any other 
recognized Engineering institute  20
03 additional Experience:
(a) For Government Officer
Having completed an active and Satisfactory Service not less than 18 years with 
five years (05) active and Satisfactory service in Grade I of the Executive Officer 
category (to a maximum 06 years per 05 marks to each year exceeds than 05 years 
of the grade i)
(b) For Miniterized officers
Having completed a five (05) years Satisfactory Service in the relevant field as an 
officer in the post of Major General of the Sri Lanka Army or as an officer of an 
armed Service Parallel to the same rank (t o a maximum 06 years per 05 marks to 
each year exceeds than 05 years of the Grade i)
30
30 30

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1985
Subject Marks Maximum 
marks
04 Performance and competency 
Excellent
Satisfactory
General
05
03
02 25
05 competency Shown at the interview
leadership 
communication
Personality
02
02
01 05
total 100
 07. 
identity of candidates :
  only candidates who have submitted completed application in all aspects are called for the aptitude Evaluation 
interview.
  Original Copies of all the certificates and copies of duly certified should be forwarded.
  following identity cards are accepted to ensure his own identity at the interview.
 i. National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons.
 ii. Valid Passport
 08. forwarding applications :
 I. Duly filled applications should be sent under registered post to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Defence, 
No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mw, colombo 03 on or before 21.08.2018. all the applications received after the 
closing date will be rejected.
 ii. a  Specimen applications to be forwarded is attached at the end of this notice. applicants should prepare 
their applications on A4 sheets to contain No. 10 – 05 on the first page and the rest from No. 06 – 08 on the 
next page and complete it in their own hand writing.
 iii. the top left hand corner of the envelop should mention the “application for the post of director General 
of the Research and development center coming under the Ministry of defence”
 iV . Signature of the applicant should be attested by a principal in a Government School/ Justice of the peace / 
Commissioner for oaths/ Attorney – at –law / Public Notary/ Commissioned officer in the Tri-Forces or an 
officer who holds a permanent post in the Government who earns a monthly salary of Rs. 47,615.00/- 
 V . The officers of those who are presently employed in public Service or provincial public service should 
submit their applications through their Heads of department.
 Vi. applications which have not been submitted in conformity with the specimen application from attached 
herein will be rejected. complaints regarding lost or delayed applications will not be entertained.
 09. 
furnishing false particulars :
  if any of particulars furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before recruitment, your candidature will 
be cancelled. in such falsehood or error is detected after recruitment, actions will be taken to dismiss your Service 
Subject to course of actions concerned.
 10. The secretary of Ministry of Defence reserves  the right either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the post
By order of the Public Service commission.
Secretary,
Ministry of defence,
15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha,
colombo 03.
15th July 2018.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1986
(For official use) 
Recruitment to the post of Director General of the Research and Development coming Under the 
ministry of  Defence
 01)   1.1  Name with initials :- Mr./Mrs./Miss  :——————.
    (in block letters)
   1.2   Name in full   :——————.
    (in block letters)
  1.3   Name in full   :——————.
    (in Sinhala)
 02)   2.1 Permanent address   :——————.
         2.2  t elephone No. :
    fixed :——————.   Mobile :——————.
 03) 3.1 Ethnicity :         Sinhala - 1,  tamil - 2,   Muslim - 4,  others - 5
       3.2  Sex :  
      3.3 Marital Status :
      3.4  National identity card :
  3.5 date of Birth :  year :————.    Month :————.date :————.
  3.6  age as at 21.08.2018 :   years :————.     Months :————.dates :————.
04) 4.1 Education Qualification  :
   4.1.1. General degree :    4.1.1. Master of art/Science  :————. 
 i. date on which the degrees effective  :————. i.  date on which the degree Wffective  :————.
 ii. university/ institution :————.   ii.  university/ institution :————.
 iii. degree :————.   iii. degree :————.
         4.2 Experience :
   4.2.1 For Government Officers
    ( a) Entire Period of Service :————. 
    ( b) Date on which the first appointment :————.
    ( c) Date and Period of service appointment to grade I of the Executive officer category :————.
  4.2.2  If an officer in a post of Major General of the Sri Lanka Army or Armed Service paralles to the same  
   rank,
    ( a) date appointed to same rank  :————.
    ( b) Period of Service of the Same rank :————.
Married unmarried

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1987
 05) Whether you have been changed for any criminal offence in a court of law. if so, give details with the date and 
case Number. :————.
 06) Certificate of the Applicant :
  i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this application by me are true and accurate. i am also aware 
that any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before appointment, i am liable to be 
disqualified and it found to be dismissed from service without paying any Compensation.
 07) a Hesitation of the Signature of the applicant :
  applicant’s signature should be attested by a Principal, Justice of the peace commissioner for oaths, attorney - 
at – law, Public Notary, Commissioned officer of the Tri-Forces an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police 
Service or an officer, holds a permanent post in the Government who earns a basic Annual salary Over  
Rs. 571,380/-.
  i hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs. /Ms.………………………………………………………………….. 
(Name in full) is personally known to me and placed his/her signature before me on ……………………… 2018.
  ————,   
 (Signature of the officer, attesting  
 the signature of the applicant )
date  :————.
Full name of the Officer attesting the signature  :————.
Post  :————.
address  :————.
 (Should be ensured by an official Stamp)
08) if the applicant is in the Government Service, report of the Head of department  :
 i hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Ms. …………………………………………………………………..
(Name in full) who forwards this application is personally known to me and placed his/her Signature before me on 
………………. 2018.
i further certify that his/her works, attendants and conduct is ………………………….. and it can / cannot be released him/
her from the Service it Selected for this post.
              
          ————,
        (Signature of the Head of department.)
as at :  ......................................................................
Name :  ......................................................................
Post :  ......................................................................
                                (Should be ensured by an official stamp) 
07-975

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1988
mINISTRy Of LANDS AND PARLIAmENTARy 
REfORmS
Department of Survey
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN HEld foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoStS of SuRVEy 
iNStRuMENt tEcHNiciaN WHicH REMaiN 
VacaNt iN tHE SuRVEy dEPaRtMENt
aPPlicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri lanka 
for the open competitive examination held for the post of 
Survey instrument technician in Survey department.
 01. Nature of the post.– Maintenance and Services of 
instruments and tools pertaining to surveying
02. (i)  Question papers to be answered.
Subjects Time Maximum 
marks
Pass marks
intelligent test 01 hour 100% 40%
technical Paper 02 hours 100% 40%
 (ii)  Selections will be made on the total marks 
obtained for the question papers.
 03. Recruitment grade.– Grade iii in the post of Survey 
instrument technician.
 04. Terms of engagement in the service :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable and this 
appointment is subject to 3 years probation period. 
you shall be subjected to a decision taken by the 
government in future on the pension scheme 
entitled to you. you should contribute to the 
widows and orphans pension fund. you should 
make contribution as per the provision imposed by 
the government from time to time.
 (ii) Selected candidates should prepare to serve 
only in the head office and subject to general 
conditions applicable to appointments to the public 
service specified at the beginning of this 
Gazette 
notification.
05. Salary Scale.– Mt  1-2016 Rs. 29,840-10x300-
11x350-10x560-10x660-Rs. 48,890.
•	 this salary scale is imple mented from 01.01.2020 
and payment of salary will be made as per the 
schedule ii of P. a. c. No. 03/2016.
  initial salary step applicable to the grade system.
Grade Initial Salary step Initial Salary Scale
iii
ii
i
Step 01
Step 12
Step 23
Rs. 29,840.00
Rs. 33,190.00
Rs. 37,250.00
 06. Age limit.– the minimum age should be 18 years and 
maximum age should be 35 years.
 07. Educational Qualifications :
1. Qualifications
 Should pass the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary level) in Six subjects in one sitting with 
three (03) credit passes for Sinhala/ tamil/ English, 
Science and Mathematics.
and
 Should pass the General Certificate of Education 
(advance level) in three subjects in any subject 
stream (Escept common General test and General 
English)
and
 Should follow one year course relevant to the field, 
offered by a technical college recognized by the 
Government.
OR
2 - Qualifications
 Should pass the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary level) in Six subjects in one sitting with 
three (03) credit passes for Sinhala/ tamil/ English, 
Science and Mathematics.
and
 Should complete a course in NVQ level 04 relevant 
to the field, in a technical college recognized by the 
Government.
Or
3 - Qualifications
 Should pass the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary level) in Six subjects in one sitting with 
three (03) credit passes for Sinhala/ tamil/ English, 
Science and Mathematics.
and
Examination, Results of Examination & c.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1989
 Should follow one year course relevant to the field, 
offered by a technical college recognized by the 
Government.
(Note.– if only there are no adequate candidates 
who have fulfilled qualifications under the 1 
and 2 qualification category, subsequent to the 
recruitment of candidates who have fulfilled 
the qualifications specified in 1 and 2 above, the 
candidates who have fulfill all the qualifications 
under the category qualification 3 will be recruited 
for the remaining vacancies.)
 08. Method of recruitment to the service .– Selection for 
appointments will be made on the number of vacancies from 
the candidates who have fulfilled qualifications, and on the 
result of a written examination.
 09. It is compulsory to a complete all the qualifications 
applicable to the post by each candidate before the closing 
date of application.
 10. Applications and other particulars :
 
 (a) (i) the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself using 21x29cm   (a4) paper 
as per the specimen application appearing 
at the end of this notice. chapter No. 01 
– 04 should be on page 01, No. 05 – 09 on 
page 2, and No. 10 – 12 should be on page 
3. the receipt obtained for the payment of 
examination fee should be pasted below that 
and “Post of Survey instrument technician” 
should be clearly written on the top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing the 
application. completed applications should be 
sent by registered post to reach to the address 
of Survey General, Survey department, Kirula 
road, Narahenpita, colombo 05 on or before 
20.08.2018.
   (Should not be sent to the personal name or to 
any other address)
  (ii) incomplete, belated, applications which 
qualifications have not been fulfilled will be 
rejected without any notice.
  (iii) We will not be responsible for applications 
which missing in the post.
  (iv) Examination fees will not be refundable for 
whatever reason.
  (v) Receipt of applications will not be acknow-
ledged.
 (b) the signature of the applicant in the application 
can be certified by a principal of a government 
school or justice of peace or commissioner of oaths 
or Attorney – at – law or commissioned officer in 
the army, air force or an officer in police Service 
holds a Gazetted post or an officer who holds a 
permanent post in public service in professional or 
senior level in terms of grading of public service 
circular No. 06/2006.
 11. the following documents should be furnished at the 
interview : 
  (i) Birth Certificate.
  (ii) Educational Certificates.
  (iii) Recently obtained, Grama Niladhari Certificate.
  (iv) Two Character Certificates.
N. B.– Certified copies of educational, professional 
and birth certificates should be furnished with the 
application.
 12. applicants those who are already in the government 
service should furnish their applications through their Heads 
of the departments.
 13. Examination fee is Rs. 800.00. the receipt obtained 
paying the examination fee to any District Survey Office or 
Cashier in Head office should be passed in relevant place 
of the applications. Money order or cheque will not be 
accepted.
 14. action will be taken to hold the examination in the 
head office or in any other suitable center. Applicants will 
be informed of the date of examination later.
 15. Admission to the examination.– admission cards are 
sent by post to all those who have forwarded applications 
and fulfilled basic qualifications, to the address mentioned in 
their application. a candidate who sits for the examination 
should hand over his/ her admission card to the supervisor 
of the examination center. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to his/ her.
Note.– issuing of admission card shall not be deemed 
as the applicant possesses qualifications to the post 
or to sit the examination.
 16. Identity of the candidate .– candidate should prove 
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1990
the supervisor. the following documents will be accepted 
for this purpose.
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a  valid passport.
 17. Punishment for furnishing false information.– if a 
candidate is found not to have required qualification, his/ 
her. candidates can be cancelled before the examination or 
duration of the examination or after the examination or at 
any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate 
are found to be false within his/ her knowledge or if he/ she 
willfully suppressed any material fact he/s he will be liable 
to dismissal from the public service.
 18. Medium of language.– this examination will be 
held in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. candidates 
may present themselves for examination in the medium 
preferred. the medium applied for will not be allowed to 
change subsequently.
 19. Matters not covered by this conditions will be 
determined by the Survey General.
 P. M. P. 
Udayakantha, 
 Surveyor General.
Survey department,
colombo 05,
05th July, 2018.
Ministry of Land and ParLiaMentary reforMs
oPen CoMPetitive exaMination for the Post of sUrvey 
instrUMent teChniCian in sUrvey dePartMent – sPeCiMen 
aPPLiCation for 2018
(For Official Use)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 1
tamil - 2
English - 3
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1  Name with initials using initials to the end :–––––.
   (in capital letters) E.g. : PERERa a. B. c.
 1.2 full Name :–––––––––––.  
  (in English capital letters)
 1.3 full Name  :–––––––––––.  
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
 1.4 National identity card No. :
 1.5 Gender - female  – 1
    Male  – 2
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
02. 2.1 Permanent address (in English capital letters) 
:–––––––––––.  
 2.2 Permanent address (in Sinhala/ tamil) :––––––––.  
 2.3 address the admission should be sent (in English 
capital letters) :–––––––––––.  
 2.4 telephone Number (if any) :–––––––––––.  
03. 3.1 Permanent resident district of candidate :––––––––.  
 3.2 divisional Secretariat division :–––––––––––.  
 3.3 Period of Residence :–––––––––––.  
 3.4 Grama Niladhari division :–––––––––––.  
04.  date of Birth :
  date :          Month:        year:
   age as at the closing date of applications :
   date :  Month :              years :
05.  Educational Qualifications (Certified copies of relevant
 certificates should be attached)
  5.1 details of the G. c. E. (o/l) examination :
  i. y ear and month of the examination :––––––
–––. 
 ii. index No. :–––––––––. 
 iii. Result :–––––––––. 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
 
 5.2 details of the G. c. E. (a/l) examination :
 1. y ear and month of the examination :–––––
–––––. 
 2. index No.  :––––––––––. 
 3. Result  :––––––––––. 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1991
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
 06.  Professional Qualifications : (Certified copies of 
relevant certificates should be attached)
   6.1 course, followed  :–––––––––––. 
   6.2 Name of the institution, course followed  :––– 
  ––––––––. 
   6.3 duration of the course  :–––––––––––. 
07.   Other Qualifications   :–––––––––––. 
08.  Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for 
any offence. (put the √  mark in the relevant cage.)
   y es  No
   if “yes” give details :
09.  The office at which the, payment made
   i.  Receipt No. and date  :–––––––––––. 
   ii. the amount paid  : Rs.  :–––––––––––. 
Affix the receipt firmly here
 Keep with you, a photocopy of the receipt
 10. Certificate of the candidate :
 (a) i declare that the particular furnished by me in this 
application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to bear the possible loss by in 
completion of certain section and/ or improper 
filling of application, further I declare that all the 
sections have been completed.
 (b) i am aware that if this declaration made by me is 
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit 
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service.
 (c) i will be subjected to the rules and regulations 
imposed by the Surveyor General for conducting 
the exam and issue of result.
 (d) any particulars mentioned herein will not be 
subsequently changed.
 ————,
 Signature of applicant.
date  :————.
 11. Certification of signature of the applicant.
  i certify that Mr. /Mrs./ Miss ………………. who is 
submitting this application is personally known to 
me, and that he/ she placed his/her signature in my 
presence.
 
————,
 Signature of attester.
date :–––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Should be placed the official stamp)
  12. it is informed that, this applicant who submitted 
this application Mr. /Mrs./ Miss …………………… is serving 
in this department/ institution from…………………… 
to ...………… as .………… and it has not been reported 
incomplete disciplinary charges against him/her this/her 
work behavior and attendance is satisfactory/ unsatisfactory, 
prescribe examination fees have been paid and the receipt 
has been pasted, if selected to the post, he/she can be/ cannot 
be released from this department/ institution.
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the
 department.
date :–––––––––––.
07-647
mINISTRy Of RESETTLEmENT, 
REhAbILITATION, NORThERN 
DEvELOPmENT AND hINDu RELIGIOuS 
AffAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to the Posts of Department Technical Officer 
(mN 03-2016) of ministry of Resettlement, 
Rehabilitation, Northern Development and hindu 
Religious Affairs - 2018
 01. applications are invited from the candidates with 
the under mentioned qualification in order to recruit 
suitable to the posts of Departmental Technical Officer 
of Ministry of Resettlement, Rehabilitation, Northern 
development and Hindu Religious affairs on open 
basis.
  Number of posts - 03
 02. Qualified candidates will be selected to recruit 
for the vacancies of the Ministry of Resettlement, 
Rehabilitation, Northern development and Hindu 
Religious affairs based on the merit secured at the 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1992
written examination conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.
 03. Educational Qualifications and V ocational Qualifications:
 Educational Qualifications :
 (a) Shall have passed G.c.E. (o/l) Examination in 
six (06) subjects with credit passed to Sinhala/
tamil/English language, Mathematics, Sinhala 
and one other subject in one sitting.
 (b) Shall have passed G.c.E. (a/l) Examination 
in three (03) subjects in Science/Mathematics 
stream, including two subjects from applied 
Mathematics, Pure Mathematics, chemistry, 
Physics and combined Mathematics in one 
sitting.
   V ocational Qualifications :
 (i) National diploma in technology awarded 
by the university of Moratuwa or Hardy 
institute Ampara;
  
or
 (ii) Higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the National apprentice and 
Industrial Training Authority;
  
or
 (iii) Higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the Ministry of Education and 
Higher Education;
  
or
 (iv) t echnical diploma awarded by the open 
University of Sri Lanka ;
  or
 (v) Completion of qualifications pertaining 
to level six (06) of National V ocational 
Qualification (NVQ) relevant to the field 
of the profession;
  
or
 (iv) Any other Technological qualification 
recognized by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission has been 
equivalent to each and every way to the 
Technological qualifications mention 
above Subsequent to consulting views of 
the institutions such as Ministry of Higher 
Education and other institutions by which 
the above certificates are issued.
 04. Physical fitness:
  Every candidate should possess a sufficient physical 
and mental condition that permits to perform their 
duties in any part within Sri lanka.
 05. Other Qualifications:
 i. Shall be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 ii. Shall possess an exemplary character.
 iii. any person holding priesthood in any 
religious sect will not be eligible to sit for 
this examination.
 iv. candidates are deemed to have possessed 
qualifications to sit the competitive 
examination for recruitment to the service 
in each and every respect, as at the date 
prescribed in the notification for calling 
applications.
 06. age: Not less than eighteen (18) years and not 
more than thirty (30) years as at the closing date of 
applications. (accordingly, the age requirement will 
be fulfilled only if the date of birth of the applicant falls 
on or before 20.08.2000 or on or after 20.08.1988).
 07. Method of Recruitment - Written Examination
  Place of the examination to be held - colombo.
  candidates shall selected one language from Sinhala, tamil and English as the medium of the examination and will 
not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.
Question Paper Syllabus time Hours total Marks Pass Marks
intelligence test
this question paper consist questions to 
assess the capacity of the candidate in 
analytical skills, logical comprehension 
ability and decision making ability.
01 100 40

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1993
Question Paper Syllabus time Hours total Marks Pass Marks
Subject related 
technical test
this question paper consist questions 
to assess the capacity and acquirable 
capacity of the candidate in Principles 
of constructions, ability of drawing and 
understanding plans for constructions, 
estimation ability and ability of designing 
water supply, drainage and sewerage 
systems.
03 100 40
  Based on the results of the written examination, 
qualified applicants will be subjected to a general 
interview to examine the qualifications and eligible 
persons will be recruited to the post.
 08. Salary Scale:
  Rs. 31,040- 445x10- 660x-11- 730x10- 750x10-                  
Rs. 57,550
  MN 3- 2016 (as per the Public administration 
circular 03/2016)
 09. conditions :
 l Recruited candidates should be desirous to perform 
their duties in any part within Sri lanka.
 l the post appointed is permanent and pensionable.
 10. the applications which are not complying to the terms 
denoted in this notification will be rejected.
 11. Receipts of applications will not be acknowledged and 
applications which will be received after the closing 
date of acceptance of applications will be rejected.
 12. (i) commissioner General of Examinations may 
issue admissions to all candidates who are 
within the prescribed age limit mentioned 
on the application and have submitted the 
correctly completed applications along 
with the relevant receipt of the payment of 
examination fee on or before the closing date 
of acceptance of applications. the department 
of Examinations may publish a newspaper 
notification immediately after issuance of 
admissions.  if  admissions were nor received 
even after 2 or 3 days after the publication 
of the notification, it should be informed 
to organization and foreign Examination 
Branch, department of Examinations Sri 
Lanka as notified in the notification. When 
informing such, the candidate shall accurately 
mention the name of the examination applied, 
full name, national identity card number and 
address. if the candidate is outside colombo, 
it will be more successful to make the request 
by sending a request letter to the fax number 
on the notification, indicating the applicants' 
fax number which the applicant could receive 
a copy of the admission immediately along 
with the aforementioned information. during 
inquiries, it will be useful to keep a copy of the 
application, copy of the receipt obtained after 
paying examination fee and the receipt obtained 
after sending the application by registered 
post to confirm any detail requested by the 
department of Examination.
  (ii) the results sheet including the names of the 
candidates who have obtained not less than 
40% for each subject will be handed over to 
the Secretary to the Ministry of Resettlement, 
Rehabilitation, Northern development and 
Hindu Religious affairs as per chapter 07 of 
this notification. Results will be informed to all 
the candidates who sat for the examination by 
personally informing or by publishing in
 www.
results.exam.gov.lk website.
 13. Method of application:
  (a) applications should be prepared according to 
the specimen form of application given at the 
end of this notice using both sides of an a4 
sheet by including No. 01 to 05 in the first page 
and rest starting from No. 06 in second and 
third pages. the name of the examination at the 
heading should be appeared in English in both 
Sinhala and tamil applications. Before sending 
the application, special attention should be paid 
to see whether the application is compatible to 
the specimen application and all the details are 
included as applications incompatible with the 
specimen and incomplete will be rejected.
   the words "open competitive Examination 
to Recruitment to the Posts of departmental 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1994
Technical Officer of the Supervisory 
Management assistant technical category 
(MN-03) in the Ministry of Resettlement, 
Rehabilitation, Northern development and 
Hindu Religious affairs - 2018" Shall be clearly 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application and it should be sent 
by registered post to reach the "commissioner 
General of Examinations, organization and 
foreign Examination Branch, department of 
Examinations Sri lanka, P. o. Box No. 1503, 
colombo" on or before 20.08.2018.
  (B) closing date of applications will be 20.08.2018.
  (c) the examination fee is Rs.600.00. the voucher 
obtained after making the payment to any post 
office under the revenue Head No. 2003-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examinations 
should be pasted in the relevant place given in 
the application. No money orders or stamps will 
be accepted as the examination fee. Payment 
for the examination will not be reimbursed or 
transferred to any other examination under any 
circumstance.
  (d) only the following documents shall be accepted 
to prove the identity of the candidate to the 
Supervisor of the examination hall.
 i. National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 ii. Valid passport.
  Sending an admission to a candidate does not 
mean that, the candidate has been considered 
as fulfilled his/her qualifications to sit for the 
examination.
  (E) a  candidate should sit for the examination in 
the same shall he/she is assigned to and should 
submit his/her admission with the certified 
signature to the supervisor on the first date of 
the examination. candidates who are unable to 
submit the admission shall not be allowed to sit 
for the examination.
 14. attestation of the Signature:
  candidate's signature should be attested by an 
officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Sri 
lanka Education administrative Service/Sri lanka 
accountant's Service/Principal of a Government 
School/Justice of the Peace/attorney at low or a 
Government Officer who hold a permanent and a 
pensionable post and obtains a consolidated salary of 
Rs. 240,360.00 per annum. candidates who already 
employed in Government Service should be attested 
their signatures by the Head of department.
  Note:
 * candidate should certify that the every section of the 
application is completed and the particulars furnished 
are accurate.
 * all persons selected as above will be subjected to all 
laws and regulations relevant to the Public Officers, the 
provisions of the Establishment code of democratic 
Socialist  Republic of Sri lanka, policies imposed 
by the Ministry of Resettlement, Rehabilitation, 
Northern development and Hindu Religious affairs, 
financial Regulations and other regulations, and rules 
and orders that may be imposed by the government 
from time to time.
  if any problem arise regarding the recruitments to the 
post covered or uncovered by this ordinary circular the 
decision of the Secretary to the Ministry will be the 
final. In case of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts, the test in Sinhala will be 
prevailed.
 Eng. (dr.) 
Ponniah sUresh,
 Secretary.
 
Ministry of Resettlement, Rehabilitation,  
Northern development  and Hindu  
Religious affairs,
on the 02nd day of July 2018.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN foRM
oPen CoMPetitive exaMination for reCrUitMent to the 
Posts of dePartMentaL teChniCaL offiCer (Mn03-2016) 
of Ministry of resettLeMent, rehabiLitation, northern 
deveLoPMent and hindU reLigioUs affairs - 2018
Residing district:
language medium of examination:
Sinhala  - 02
tamil  - 03
English - 04
(Write relevant No. in the box)
01. 1.1 Name in full (in English Block letters)  :———.
  (Eg: HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials (Last name first and initials at 
the end) (in English Block letters)
 :————.
  (Eg: GuNaWaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full: (in Sinhala/tamil)
02. 2.1 address (Private) (in English Block letters) :——.
 2.2 address (Private) (in Sinhala/t amil) :————.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1995
 2.3 Address (Office) (In English Block Letters)  :——
——.
 2.4 address (Private) (in Sinhala/t amil)  :————.
 2.5 address to which the admission should be sent
  (in English Block letters) :————.
  (Officers in the public service/Provincial Public 
Service/Co-operations should write his/her official 
address. it should be immediately informed if it 
varies.)
03. Sex (Male/female) :
  female-1
  Male-0
 (Write relevant No. in the box)
04. National identity card No. :
05. 5.1 date of Birth : 
  y ear Month  date
 5.2 age as the closing date of applications:
  y ears   Months    dates
06. Mobile phone number :
07. Educatio nal Qualifications :
 (a) G.c.E.(o/l) Examination :
  y ear of Examination 
:———.   index No. :———.
No. Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
 (B ) G.c.E.(a/l) Examination:
  y ear of Examination 
:———.  index No. :———.
No. Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
 (C) V ocational and Industrial Qualifications:
Certificate
Institution 
from which 
the certificate 
issued
Year Subjects
 (D) Other special qualifications and experience :——.
08. details of the voucher :
 (i) Place of Payment :————.
 (ii) Number and date of the voucher :————.
 (iii) amount paid :————.
Paste the voucher here
09. Certificate of Candidate :
 i declare that the information furnished here by me is true 
and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. i 
shall be liable to be cancel my candidature prior or after 
the examination or shall be liable to be dismissed from 
service even after the appointment if it is found that any 
information furnished in the application is found to be 
false or inaccurate.
 
————,
 Signature of the applicant
 date :————.
10. attestation of the applicant's Signature :
 i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ……………… 
……………. who submit this application is known to 
me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on …………………………..
 
————,
 Signature of the officer attesting the signature
 Name in full :————.
 designation :————.
 (Certify by placing the official seal)
11. Certificate of the Head of department :
 (only for the applicants who are already in Public/
Provincial Public Service)
 11.1 Referring to the personal file of the applicant, 
i do hereby certify that the work, conduct and 
attendance of the officer for the period of five years 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1996
immediately preceding to the closing date of calling 
for applications is satisfied/not satisfied. Officer 
has/has not earned all salary increments. Officer 
has subjected/not subjected to any disciplinary 
action.
 11.2 He/She could/could not be released from the post 
held at present. if he/she is selected to the post 
applied. i do hereby recommend/not recommend 
the application.
  
————,
 Signature and the Official seal of 
 the Head of department.
date  :————.
07-512
mINISTRy Of fINANCE AND mASS mEDIA
Sri Lanka Customs Department
oPEN coMPEtitiVE EXaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to tHE PoStS of aSSiStaNt 
SuPERiNtENdENt of cuStoMS, GRadE ii 
dEPaRtMENt of SRi laNKa cuStoMS -2018
tHE open competitive Examination for recruitment to 
the posts of assistant Superintendent of customs, Grade 
ii of the Sri lanka customs department will be held by 
the commissioner General of Examinations in November 
2018,only in colombo. the date of the examination will 
be notified in due course through the newspapers. The Sri 
lanka customs department reserves the right of postponing 
or cancelling this examination.
applications are invited for these posts from both males 
and females possessing the qualifications given below:
02. eligibility:- 
 (i) Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof to the 
fact that he/she:
 (
a) is a citizen of Sri lanka,
 ( b) is of excellent moral character,
 ( c) is not less than 22 years and not more than 28 
years of age, as at the closing date of applications.
(accordingly, only those who were born on or 
before 20.08.1996 or born on or after 20.08.1990 
are eligible to apply for this post)
Note :- No person ordained in any religious sect shall be 
permitted to sit this examination.
 (ii) Physical requirements: in the case of males, their 
height should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and chest 
should not be less than33 inches (when expanded). in 
the case of females their height should not be less than 
5 feet 3 inches.
(III)  Educational qualifications.-The candidates must 
possess the following educational qualifications:- 
 (a) A degree obtained from a recognized University; 
and 
 (b) at least a credit pass in English language 
as a subject at the General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary level). Examination 
(English language as an optional subject is not 
considered) ;
or 
 (c) a  Simple pass (minimum) in English language 
as a subject at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced level) Examination.
Note: No person will be eligible to sit this examination, on 
pending results of a degree Examination. However a person 
who has passed a degree of a recognized university may 
be permitted to sit this examination, when an official letter 
obtained from the Registrar of the university is produced to 
the effect, that he/she has passed the degree examination.
03. Conditions of Service :
 (i)  
Salary : the consolidated monthly salary scale 
attached to the post is as follows:-
  MN -5   Rs. 34,605 - 660X10 – 755X11- 
930X15 = Rs. 63,460 
  (as per Public administration circular 
No.3/2016  )
  (the provisions of the Public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 will be applicable in 
paying salaries from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020)
 (ii)  the post is permanent  and will be subject to 
the policy decision taken by the government, 
regarding the pension scheme in future.
 (iii)   Successful candidates will be appointed subject 
to a probationary period of three years with 
effect from the date of appointment.
 (iV)   the appointees must undergo a medical 
examination held by a Government Medical 
Officer to test whether he/she is physically fit to 
serve in any part of the island. 
 (V) the appointees are bound to serve day and night 
in any part of the island.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1997
 (Vi) the attention is invited to the General conditions 
applicable to the posts in Public Service which 
have been published at the beginning of part 
i: Section (iia) of the Government 
Gazette 
notification.
04. Scheme of examination.-the Scheme of examination for 
recruitment is as follows :
          Marks 
(01)  aptitude test ( 01 Hour )                100
(02)  English language ( 01 ½ hours )     100
  t otal    200
Aptitude paper – this paper will consist of 50 multiple 
choice questions and questions for short answers, to test 
the language skills, the ability in mathematical and logical 
reasoning of the candidate. all questions should be answered.
english Language paper- this paper will test the reading, 
writing, comprehension and communication skills of the 
candidates. all questions should be answered.
Note:- this examination will be conducted in all the three 
languages Sinhala, tamil and English. applicant should sit 
this examination in the same medium in which they passed 
the qualifying examination referred to in paragraph 02(iii) of 
this notification. (
i.e. Sinhala or tamil or English), or in the 
Official Language. It is not permitted to change the language 
medium applied. 
 (i) Marks will be deducted for unclear handwriting and 
wrong spelling. 
 (ii) admission cards of the examination will be sent by the 
commissioner General of Examinations to the applicants 
who forward applications to sit the examination. the 
receipt of an admission card must not be treated as a 
fulfillment of qualifications to sit the examination.  
( iii) Evaluation: applicants who score 60% or above in 
each paper will be listed in a priority list based on the 
aggregate marks. a number of applicants equivalent 
to the number of vacancies will be called for the 
structured interview according to merits,starting from 
the applicant who has obtained the highest aggregate 
marks. Maximum of 10 marks will be awarded for the 
sports talents at the structured interview. Subsequently, 
the successful applicants will be referred to a general 
interview in which no marks will be awarded and 
information regarding qualifications of the applicants 
will be verified at this interview.
Marks Awarding procedure at the structured interview:
Marks for individual sports at the Zonal level : 3 marks 
for the first place, 2 marks for the second place, and 1 
mark for the third place.
Marks for individual sports at the district level : 4 
marks for the first place, 3 marks for the second place, 
and 2 marks for the third place. 
Marks for individual sports at the National level : 5 
marks for the first place,4 marks for the second place 
and 3 marks for the third place.
Marks for a member of a team game at the Zonal level: 
3 marks for the first place,2 marks for the second place, 
and 1 mark for the third place.
Marks for member of a team game at the district level: 
4 marks for the first place, 3 marks for the second place, 
and 2 marks for the third place.
Marks for a member of a team game at the National 
level:5 marks for the first place 4 marks for the second 
place and 3 marksfor the third place.
05. Basis of selection – applicants who are successful at the 
written examination and the interview will be selected 
for conferment of appointments, subject to the number 
of vacancies approved by the Ministry of finance and 
Mass Media. Not more than 10% of the number of 
vacancies of the combined cadre will be reserved for 
female candidates.
05. (I) Release of results: -the results list prepared in order 
of merit based on aggregate marks obtained by the qualified 
candidates at the written examination and the structured 
interview will be sent to the director General of customs 
by the department of Examinations.  the department of 
Examinations will issue the result to all candidates who sat 
the examination, by post or will publish result in the official 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk
Note:-the nature of the work in customs department 
is such that even the female officers will have to 
perform night duties.
06.  it is compulsory for every applicant that, he/she 
should have fulfilled all the required qualifications 
prior to the date of closing applications for the 
examination.  
07. Method of application:-
 (i) a  specimen form of the application has been given 
at the end of this notification. applicants should 
prepare their application forms themselves in the 
medium which they intend to sit the examination 
conforming to the specimen form referred to above 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1998
and fill them in their own handwriting. Every cage 
of the application must be filled by the applicants as 
instructed and if there are cages not applicable, the 
words “not applicable” should be entered in such 
cages. it must be strictly noted that leaving blank 
cages in the application will cause the applications 
liable to be rejected. (Heading numbers 01 to 06 of 
the specimen form should be on the first page, 07 
to 11 in the second page, and the rest in the third 
page of the application which should be prepared 
in a4 size papers). the title of the examination 
should be written in English too, in Sinhala and 
tamil applications. Retaining a copy of the duly 
filled application with the applicant may be more 
appropriate. it is further requested to check whether 
the application has been accurately completed in 
conformity with the specimen appended to this 
notification and the receipt obtained after payment 
of examination fee has been pasted indicating 
relevant details since the applications which are 
not in conformity with the said Specimen and 
incomplete applications are rejected without notice.
 (ii) the completed application form must be sent by 
registered post on or before 20.08.2018 to reach 
the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, P.B.1503, colombo. 
any applications received after the due date will 
be rejected. the name of the examination should 
be written clearly on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
 (iii) the examination fee is Rs. 750. this fee should 
be paid at any Post office /Sub Post office to the 
credit of the revenue head number 2003-02-13 
of the commissioner General of Examinations.  
Money orders or stamps will not be accepted for the 
payment of examination fee. the receipt must be 
attached to the application and it is advised to retain 
a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant. this 
fee will not be refunded under any circumstances or 
not be transferred in lieu of a payment for another 
examination.
 (iv) applicants who are already employed in 
Government departments/ corporations/ Boards 
must forward their applications through the Heads 
of their department or institutions in which they 
are serving at present. applicants are requested 
to forward their applications to heads of their 
departments or institution well on time with a 
request that they be transmitted to the commissioner 
General of Examinations so as to reach him on or 
before 20.08.2018the applications should not be 
sent addressing personally to the director General 
of Customs or any other officer of the Department. 
Applications received after the due date; even if 
they are forwarded by the departments will be 
rejected. applications of the applicants who are 
in the Government Service will be rejected if the 
attestation of the signature of the applicant does not 
bear the signature and the official seal of the Head 
of department/ Head of the institution.
  (v)  attestation: - the signature of an applicant who is in 
Government Service should be attested by his/her 
Head of Department or by an officer authorized to 
do so on his behalf. the signature of other applicants 
should be attested by a person authorized to do so, 
i.e a Justice of Peace, a commissioner of oaths, 
attorney - at - law, a Notary Public, a Principal of 
a Government School, a Commissioned Officer of 
the Navy, air force or army, a permanent Public 
Officer drawing an annual salary of  Rs. 240,360/= 
or over, a chief incumbent or a Head of a Buddhist 
temple or any other religion in charge of a place of 
worship or holding a position of importance.
08  (I) Admission to the Examination:-on the presumption 
that applications have been forwarded by persons 
who have fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the 
Gazette notification, admission cards will be issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations to all 
applicants who are within the age limit mentioned in 
the 
Gazette notification and have paid the prescribed 
examination fee and submitted the accurately completed 
applications on or before the closing date including the 
name of the city and medium intended to appear for 
examination, signature of the applicant, the attestation 
of the signature and the attestation of the Head of the 
department (if applicable) along with the receipt of the 
payment.
 immediately after the issuance of admission cards to the 
applicants a newspaper advertisement will be published 
by the department of Examinations, Sri lanka. if a 
applicant does not receive his / her admission card even 
after two or three days of such advertisement, he / she 
should, without any delay, inform the department of 
Examinations of Sri lanka regarding non- receipt of 
the admission cards, as mentioned in the notification. 
in making such an inquiry, full name of the applicant, 
address, National identity card No. and name of the 
examination should accurately be mentioned. in case of 
an applicant residing outside colombo it will be more 
appropriate to contact the department forwarding a 
letter of request including the above details and a fax 
number to receive the admission card ( to the fax number 
referred to in the notification). It will be more successful 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
1999
to retain a certified photocopy of the application with 
the paying receipt and the registered post no. readily 
available with the applicant to produce as a proof of 
such information requested by the department of 
Examinations.
 (ii) an applicant must sit the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him/her. Every 
candidate must get his signature attested in 
advance and hand over the admission card 
to the supervisor on the first day he/she 
presents himself/herself for the examination. 
an applicant who fails to produce his/her 
admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. the rules for applicants have 
been indicated separately in part i: Section 
ii (a) of this 
Gazette notification. applicants 
will be bound by the rules of Examination.
 (III) No notification of receipt of applications will 
be issued to the applicants. applicants will be 
subject to the rules and regulations enacted by 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
with respect to the conduct of examinations 
and release of the results. in case of violating 
these rules and regulations, he/ she will be 
liable to a punishment to be imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.  
Note: - the issue of an admission card to an applicant 
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the requisite 
qualifications to sit the examination.
09.  Identity of the applicants: -applicants will be required 
to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject. any 
of the following documents will be accepted for this 
purpose:
(a) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Person.
(b) A valid passport issued no more than five years 
before the date of examination.
the candidature of an applicant who fails to produce 
a document referred to above is liable to be cancelled 
at the discretion of the commissioner General 
Examinations.
10. Documents of eligibility: -
(i) No documents, certificates or photocopies 
of such certificates, other than the receipt of 
examination fee and the document relating 
to the “Note” referred to under heading 02  
(if applicable) should be forwarded with the 
application. But the necessary particulars 
should be provided in the form, as prescribed. 
incomplete applications will be rejected.
(ii) Applicants, who are qualified to be called for 
the interview, should prove their eligibility by 
producing documentary proof. 
(iii) the originals of the following documents will 
be required:
(a)  A certificate of moral character signed by 
a responsible person.
Note:The certificate of character may be obtained from a 
Justice of the Peace, attorney – at - law, divisional 
Secretary of the area of residence, or a permanent 
Government officer in receipt of an annual 
consolidated salary of Rs.240,360/= or over, or some 
person whose name is known and  reference can be 
directly made. the designation and address of the 
person who issues the certificate must be clearly 
indicated on the certificate. (Applicants holding 
permanent posts in Government service will not be 
required to furnish certificates of moral character)
(a)   A certified copy of the entry of the registration of 
the birth of candidate or a Special Certificate of 
age issued by the Register General (in the case of 
candidates whose birth has been not registered)
 Note:
(i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school 
or educational purposes, or a certified extract 
from the birth registration entry will not be 
accepted.
(ii) Affidavits or Baptismal Certificates will not be 
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.
(iii) if the name/names appearing in the Birth 
Certificate differs/differ from the name/names 
which the applicant generally uses and the name 
under which the applicant sits the examination, 
action should be taken immediately in terms of 
Section 27 and 28 as the case may be, of the Births 
and deaths Registration act, (chapter 110) to 
get the name in the entry of the registration of 
birth amended.
(iv) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri 
Lanka or original official letter of acceptance of 
a claim to citizenship by descent (as applicable).

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
2000
(iv) Original certificate of educational qualifications 
or where the certificate has not been issued, 
other relevant official documents. e.g. an official 
letter issued by a Registrar of a university to the 
effect that the applicant has passed the degree 
examination, result sheet issued to the applicant 
by the department of Examinations, stating 
that he/she has obtained a credit pass in English 
language at the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary level) examination or simple pass in 
English language at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced level) examination.
(v) documentary proof of achievements of sports 
at Zonal/ district/National levels.
(vi) applicants are advised to have all the 
necessary documents in readiness at the time 
of forwarding the application. any applicant 
who fails to produce the necessary documents 
or who delay in producing them when called 
for, will be made disqualified for appointment 
to this post.
11.  Penalty for Furnishing False Particulars: -if a 
applicant is found to be ineligible according to the 
regulations for this examination, his/her candidature 
is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during 
or after the examination.  if any of the particulars 
furnished by anapplicant is found to be false to the 
best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully 
suppressed any material fact, or if it is proved, 
at any time during the period of his/her service 
that he/she was ineligible to sit the examination,  
he/she will be liable to immediate dismissal from 
the service. the candidature of those who do not 
strictly conform to the requirements laid down in 
this notification will be cancelled. 
12. any matter not provided for in these regulations 
will be dealt with at the discretion of the Secretary, 
to the Ministry of finance and Mass Media.
13. in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this 
Gazette 
Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Director General of Customs,
Sri Lanka Customs Department,
No.40, main Street,
Colombo
Specimen Application form
OPEN  COmPETITIvE  EXAmINATION  fOR  RECRuITmENT  TO  ThE  POSTS  Of   ASSISTANT 
SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CUSTOMS,  GRADE  II  DEPARTMENT  OF  SRI LANKA  CUSTOMS – 2018
(for office use only)
Medium in which you sit this examination : 
Sinhala – 2 t amil – 3 
English – 4 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
 01. Name of the applicant: 
 1.1 Name in full (in Block letters) 
 :————.
  ( eg. HERatH  MudiyaNSElaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end  :————.
  ( eg. GuNaWaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/ tamil)  :————.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
2001
 02. Permanent residential address: ( in Block letters)  :————.
  address to which the admission card should be sent  :————.
 
 03. Particulars of the National identity card :
 3.1 Number of the identity card :
3.2 date of issue: 
 04. Sex:
 Male     – 0 
 female – 1 
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
 05.  (a) date of Birth : 
    
year :      Month :        date :
       (b) age on the closing date of application :
years :      Months :        dates :
 
 06. State whether you are a citizen of Sri lanka :
By descent – 1  
By registration – 2
(Write the relevant number inside the box)
 07. Ethnicity: 
        Sinhalese – 1  ceylon tamil – 2
        indian tamil – 3 Muslim – 4
        Burgher – 5 other – 6
  (Write the relevant number inside the box)
 08. Mobile telephone Number :
 09. Physical requirements: 
         (i) Height 
:————.         feet :————.           inches :————.
         (ii) chest (when expanded) :————. inches.
 (only for male candidate)
 10. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the court of law ? (yes/No) :————.
  if yes, give details :————.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
2002
 11. Educational Qualifications:
Name 
of the 
university
degree class 
of 
degree
year Subjects
I.  Highest qualification in English Language at the examination of General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level)
year  :————.
index No  :————.
 
II. Highest qualification in English Language at the examination of General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level)
 y ear  :————.
 index No :————.
 12.  Examination fee (Receipt to be attached) :
 I. Name of the Post office /Sub Post office  :————.
 ii. amount Paid : Rs. :————.
 iii.  date of payment :————.
 iV . Receipt No. :————.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(it would be advisable to keep a photocopy  with the candidate)
(these particular should be given compulsorily).
13. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification :
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in the application are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before selection, I am subject to be disqualified or dismissal 
from the service without any compensation if it is revealed after selection. furthermore, i agree to abide by rules and 
regulations of the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the conducting of the examination.
 ………………………..
 Signature of applicant.
date 
:————.
14. attestation of applicant’s signature (delete whichever inapplicable) :
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is submitting this application is personally known to me and that 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this …………day of ………2017. i also certify that he/she has paid the 
due examination fee and has attached the paid receipt.
Signature of attester 
:————.
full Name of attester :————.
designation :————.
address :————.
date :————.
Note: The attestation should be made by a person referred to in paragraph 7(V) of Gazette Notification. 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'07'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.07.2018
2003
15.  i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. …………………. who is submitting this application is an employee of this Ministry/ 
department/ Board/ corporation. in the event of his/her selection for the above post he/she can be released. 
…………..….…………………………..
Signature of the Head of the department
date :————.
Name of the Head of the department :————.
designation :————.
address of the department :————.
07-619
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.