

<!-- page 1 -->

MAHANUWARA  BAUDDHA VIDYA PEETAYA
(INCORPORATION)
ACT, No. 23 OF 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 12th August, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 13, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  A T  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999
[Certified on 12 th August, 1999]
L.D.–O. 48/96.
A N  ACT   TO  INCORPORATE  THE  M AHANUWARA  BAUDDHA
V IDY A PEETAYA
WHEREAS a centre called and known as the “Mahanuwara
Bauddha Vidya Peetaya” has heretofore been established at
Gurudeniya, Tennakumbura, Kandy for the purpose of
effectively carrying out and transacting all matters connected
with the said Centre, according to the rules agreed to, by its
members:
AND WHEREAS the said Centre has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to be
incorporated, and it is now desirable and expedient that the
said Centre should be incorporated:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of  the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Mahanuwara Bauddha
Vidya Peetaya (Incorporation) Act, No.23 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the
Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya (hereinafter referred to
as “the Bauddha Vidya Peetaya”) or shall hereafter be admitted,
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be and
become a body corporate with perpetual succession, under
the name and style of the “Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya
Peetaya” (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) and by
that name, may sue and be sued with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be-
(a) to foster and promote education by establishing and
maintaining “Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya”,
Pirivena training institutes of bhikkus, schools, and
Educational institutions and by granting scholarships;
General objects
of the
Corporation
Short title.
Incorporation of
the Mahanuwara
Bauddha Vidya
Peetaya.
H - 022545
Preamble.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999
(b) to preserve and disseminate the Theravadhi Buddhist
philosophy and way of life;
(c) to maintain friendly relations with other Buddhist
organisations in and outside Sri Lanka;
(d) to establish and maintain a department for oriental
languages;
(e) to establish and maintain a department for
international languages such as English, French;
(f)to engage in the dissemination of the Dhamma
internationally;
(g) to conduct vocational and educational courses for
youths in Sri Lanka;
(h) to train students in small industries and to help them
financially or otherwise to establish themselves as
useful citizens;
(i) to engage in any industry, trade or import and export
business and to promote and carry on any
agricultural, industrial and commercial enterprise, to
provide aid and assistance to any person for such
enterprises, to conduct training programmes and to
organize services and propaganda campaigns, with
a view to providing the public with technological
expertise;
(j)to give aid by way of scholarships, or cash or
otherwise, to monks, volunteers and other persons,
engaged in the furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation;
(k) to provide and maintain libraries, to subscribe for,
and issue, books, journals, souvenirs and periodicals,
and to provide such other services as may be deemed
desirable for attaining the objects of the Corporation;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999
(l) to promote, arrange, organise and hold, exhibitions,
lectures, seminars simposia, workshops, classes
debates, conferences, tours, excursions or other
activities in furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation;
(m) to co-operate and associate with other associations,
societies or organisations, having objects similar to
those of the Corporation;
(n) to provide higher educational diplomas and other
educational programmes and courses of study in
ayurveda and indigenous medicine;
(o) to act as an agent of any national or foreign technical
or vocational training institution or affiliate institution
or organization carrying on educational activities;
(p) to do all other acts and things as are or may be
necessary conducive, or incidental, to, the
attainment of the above objects.
4.  Subject to the provisions of this Act, and other written
law, the Corporation shall have the power to do, perform execute
all such acts, matters and things whatsoever, as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion and furtherance of the objects
of the Corporation or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
moneys, with or without security, to receive or collect grants
and donations, to invest its funds, and to engage employ and
dismiss officers and servants for the purpose of carrying out
of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, be administered by a
Board of Directors consisting of the Director-General,
Deputy Director -General and three Assistant
Director-Generals the Honorary Secretary, Assistant
Secretary and the Honorary Treasurer and not less
than ten other members to be elected in accordance
with the rules, in force for the time being, of the Corporation.
General Powers of
the  Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection
(1) of this section the Venerable Theripehe Sri Dhammananda
Thero, shall be the Director-General of the Corporation for
life and he shall nominate his successor to be Director-General
of the Corporation after him. Such succeeding Director-
General shall also hold the office of Director-General for life.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Committee of Management of
the Bauddha Vidya Peetaya holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, and whose
names are specified in the First Schedule to this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at an Annual General Meeting or at any General Meeting
of the Corporation convened for the purpose with two weeks
notice and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the
members present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act or any other written law for the
admission, withdrawal and expulsion of members of the
Corporation, powers, conduct and duties of the office bearers
and of the Committee of Management, the procedure to be
observed in the transaction of business at meeting of the
Corporation the conduct, duties and functions of employees
of the Corporation, and otherwise generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation, and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made  may, at
a like meeting, and in like manner be altered, added to, amended
or recinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to,
the Centre on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Bauddha Vidya
Peetaya.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999
8. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the Director-
General and the Secretary who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence, and such signing shall
be independent of the signing of any such person as a witness.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gift, testamentary disposition,
transfer, donation, contributions or fees shall be deposited in
the name of the Corporation in one or more banks as may be
determined by the Committee of Management.
(2) The Corporation may establish any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development and improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging it’s powers and functions shall be paid out of
the Fund.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property movable or immovable and which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the ruels in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to mortgage, sell, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate
or of any other person, except such as are mentioned in this
Act, and those claiming by , from, or under, them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
How the seal of
the Corporation
is to be affixed.
Fund of the
Corporation
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Savings of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999
FIRST   SCHEDULE [section 5 (3)]
Board of Directors
Director General : Rev. Galkatiwala Nandarathana Thero
Deputy Director General : Hon. Harindranath Dunuwila
Assistant Director Generals : 1. Mr. Sen Alwis
2. Mr. N.K.R. Tilakeratne
3. Mr. B.W. Samarakoon
Secretary : Mr. J. Bopitiyage
Vice Secretary : Mr. R.M.D.B. Ananda Weerasooriya
Treasurer : Mr. G.D.L. Leelaratne
Committee Memebers:
1. Mr. P.B. Ransigolla
2. Mr. Senerath Galkaduwa
3. Mr. Rambanda Dharmadasa
4. Mr. K.A. Dinapala
5. Mr. Dharmadasa Weeraratne
6. Mr. N.H.G. Dharmadasa
7. Mr. W.M. Ranatunga Bandara
8. Mr. M.V .S. Samaratunga
9. Mr. W.M. Seneviratne
10. Mr. Mahinda Ekanayake
Other Members:
1. Mr. A.V .de. Wijewardena
2. Mr. W.K. Dudley Goonatilake
3. Mr. Dayananda Weeraratne
4. Mr. Henry Amarasinghe
5. Mr. Gamini Kaluarachchi
6. Mr. M.D. Nimalsiri
7. Mr. B.H. Perera

<!-- page 8 -->

7Mahanuwara Bauddha Vidya Peetaya
(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1999
8. Mr. P.G. M. Karunaratne
9. Mr. H.W. Jinadasa
10. Mr. T. Gamini de Silva
11. Dr. K. Kushapana
12. Mr. D.E. Pathirana
13. Mr. Gamini Wetthasinghe
14. Mr. P.D.P. Pathirana
15. Mr. A.C. Abeyweera
16. Mr. A.G.S. Dayaratne
17. Mr. Athula Seneviratne
18. Mr. Indika Premadasa
19. Mr. H.M. Dissanayake
20. Mr. Kumarasighe Pathirane
21. Mr. Maiththri Athukorale
22. Mr. P.Y .J. Seneviratne
23. Mr. A.R.M. Ratnayake
24. Mr. B. Don Chandrasena
25. Mr. L.G. Jayatissa
26. Mr. B.G. Wijeratne
27. Mr. H.B. Samaratunga
28. Mr. Sunil Perera
29. Mr. P.K.G. Dasanayake
30. Mr. A.B. Ekanayake
31. Dr. B.D.S. Gurudeniya
32. Dr. G.W. Karunaratne
33. Mr. U.A. Yasaratne
34. Mr. N.M. Nissanka
35. Mr. A.S. Ratnayake

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of   the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.