

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2022
N. B.–   (i) Part III of the Gazette No. 2,222 of 01.04.2021 was not published.
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...   —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... —
By-Laws ... 794
Posts - Vacant ...    —
                                                                                                         Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.  ...               ––
Notices calling for Tenders   ...  ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
     
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th July, 2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 15th July 2022.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2022
793  - B 82362 - 5,403  (07/2022)
wxl 2"288 - 2022 cQ,s ui 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'07'08
No. 2,288 - FRIDAy  JuLy 08, 2022
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.–    (i)  Social Security Contribution Levy Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 17, 2022.
 (ii) Termination of Employment of workmen (Special Provision) (Amendment)  Bill was published as a supplement to the Part 
II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 17, 2022.
 (iii) Industrial Distputes (Amendment)  Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 17, 2022.
N. B.–   Parts II, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2287 of  01.07.2022 ware not published. 

<!-- page 2 -->

794
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2022
by-Laws
ImbuLPe PRADeShIyA SAbhA
I, Tikiri Banda Kobbekaduwa, Honorable Governor of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council, do hereby approve the By-Law 
mentioned below in accordance with the Section 123 (1) of 1987 No. 15 Pradeshiya Sabha Act to be read with the Section 2 
of the Provincial Council Act (Consequential Provisions) No. 12 of 1989 which was passed at the session held on 11.06.2020 
via the proposal bearing decision No. 05 (i) prepared by Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha upon the powers vested under the 
Section 122 of 1987 No. 15 Pradeshiya Sabha Act to be read with the Section 126 of the said Act and I hereby give notice 
that this By-Law will come into effect within Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha vicinity with effect from the date of Gazette 
publication of this notice.
 T
ikiri Banda koBBekaduwa,
 The Governor,
 Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
On 25th of April, 2022.
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
by-law on exhibiting the Advertisments in the Vicinity of Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha
 1.  The objective of the By-law is to formally implement and control of exhibiting advertisements within Imbulpe 
Pradeshiya Sabha vicinity according to the rules and regulations being friendly to the public environment.
 2. This By-law may be cited as the By-law to regularize, control and supervise the advertisements displayed in the area 
of Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha .
 3.1 No person shall display or cause to be displayed an advertisement in any form so as to be visibly seen in any 
public place in the area of Pradeshiya Sabha (herein after referred to as Pradeshiya Sabha vicinity), unless 
possess a valid licence issued by the Chairman.
 3.2 Every person seeks to obtain a license to display an advertisement shall forward an application substantially 
prepared in accordance with the specimen given in the first Schedule hereof.
 3.3 Fee of issuing licence under this By-law should be time to time decided and should be imposed by Pradeshiya 
Sabha.
 4. Every licence issued under this By-law shall be valid only for the period specifically mentioned in the licence unless 
it is cancelled earlier under these By-laws.
 5.  Any person seeks to obtain a licence to display an advertisement shall forward an application  substantially prepared 
in accordance with the specimen given in the first Schedule hereof to the Chairman at least two working days ahead.
 (a) Every application for a license shall contain a specimen of the advertisement prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a 
paper 210 millimeters by 297 millimeters and a ground plan or plan of the place or places where the advertisement 
is expected to be displayed prepared on the scale 1:1000 on a paper 210mm x 297mm and the exact length and 
the width of the advertisement should have been indicated therein.
 6. The applicant shall be informed by the Chairman or the Authorized Officer regarding the accomplishment of conditions 
necessary for the issue of a licence under this By-law. It shall be the duty of the Chairman or the Authorized Officer 
to issue the licence to the applicant after having paid the licence fees in the manner set out in the section 3(3) and 
cash deposit set out in the section 16(a).

<!-- page 3 -->

795
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2022
 (a) Notwithstanding  anything to the provisions in this By-law no fees shall be charged for any advertisement in 
respect of my religious or cultural services. However, the other provisions of this By-laws shall apply in respect 
of any such advertisement in the manner set out.
 7. It shall be the duty of the licensee to indicate the registered number assigned to the licensee, in the lower corner, right 
hand side of each advertisement or advertisements.
 8. It shall be the duty of the licensee to remove the advertisement and all other goods used in that behalf out of the 
place/places where such advertisements were displayed, before forty eight hours date mentioned in the application 
forwarded to obtain a licence under this By-law.
 9. The advertisement of any commodity or a service has been displayed together with the name,  number and/or address 
of any business enterprise and an advertisement of any form of commodity or service has been displayed in any 
household, such advertisement or advertisements shall be subjected to the provisions of these By-laws.
10. (a) The Chairman shall not allow anyone to display or cause to be displayed an advertisement of any form which 
could be visible from any public place of Pradeshiya Sabha without a valid license issued which was made 
according to the format mentioned in the second schedule of here.
 (b) It shall not be allowed to display or cause to be displayed any advertisement of any form which could be visible 
from any public place other than the place or places mentioned in the relevant license even though a valid 
license had issued for displaying advertisement.
 11. The Chairman shall not issue a licence under this by-law for the display of any form of advertisement,  unless the 
applicant fulfils the following conditions.
 (a) Application shall be for the display of advertisement in a place within the zone determined upon by Pradeshiya 
Sabha from time to time in accordance with the manner set out in this By-Law.
 (b) The application shall be of a place for which the license issued should have been expired. However, this provision 
shall not be a prejudice to issue a licence to display an advertisement nearby an advertisement in existence 
displayed under a licence previously issued and still in force in the same place without having obstructed the 
view of the same advertisement being displayed.
 (c) The advertisement for which a license is issued shall not contain any scenes or words which are obscene or 
unpleasant or immoral or damaging any culture or harming any religion or community or race or which can 
cause such a situation.
 (d) In a situation where a license was requested to display an advertisement in a hoarding which was constructed by 
Pradeshiya Sabha under this By-law, the allocated time for displaying any advertisement already displayed in the 
hording shall be expired at that moment and enough space shall be available for displaying the advertisement.
 (e) No advertisement shall be displayed, in which the proposed display has been prohibited or limited by a written 
law of the country.
 12. No advertisement shall be fixed in a manner that may cause any obstacle accident to a person walking near the 
particular advertisement or to a vehicle being nearby. Furthermore, fixing of electricity light rays or fluorescing of 
light so as to change the attention of a driver who drives a vehicle or cause disturbances to his view shall not be 
permitted.
 13. Pradeshiya Sabha shall not responsible for any damage, defacement or evacuation caused to any advertisement by a 
third party displayed under a license issued under this By-law.

<!-- page 4 -->

796
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2022
14. No person shall fix, paste, hang, keep tied or project any form of advertisement in a tree, a trunk of a tree, a branch 
or in any part of a public place or close to such a place or attached to a public building.
15. (a) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to erect and maintain hoarding where advertisements would be 
displayed in any plot of land owned by the Pradeshiya Sabha or a land taken over by Pradeshiya Sabha under 
an agreement in any area decided by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
  (b) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall have power to charge from the exhibitors a fee determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha 
from time to time for displaying an advertisement in any hoarding erected by the Pradeshiya Sabha under 
paragraph (a).
  (c) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to publish in the Gazette the annual licence fees to be levied by the 
Pradeshiya Sabha under the provisions of the paragraph (a) of this by- law.
16. (a) The Chairman shall not issue a license to any applicant seeking a license to display an advertisement unless the 
applicant pays the cash deposited as determined by the Pradeshiya Sabha timt to time.
 (b) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to publish in the Gazette the decision taken by the Pradeshiya Sabha in 
respect of the cash deposited in the Pradeshiya Sabha before issuing the licence to display any advertisement.
 17. (a) The license can withdraw the cash deposited at the Pradeshiya Sabha by a written request made to the Chairman 
after having complied with the provisions set out in the section 8 of this By-law.
  (b) The chairman shall ensure the followings before releasing the cash deposited to the license as described in 
paragraph (a)
 (i) Whether the licensee has fulfilled the obligations on his part properly as stated in the section 9 of this By-law, 
and
 (ii) that no damage has been caused by the licensee to the hording belonging to the Pradeshiya Sabha during the 
course of removal of such advertisement.
  (c) The said cash deposit shall not be released by the Chairman unless who satisfies that no damage has been caused 
as described in paragraph (b) of this By law and in the event where the licensee has failed to act the matters such 
a manner set out in the section 8 of this By-law or caused damages to the hoarding of the Pradeshiya Sabha, the 
expenditure incurred by the Pradeshiya Sabha by either attending the matters or repairing the hoarding or for 
both shall be deducted from the deposited money and the balance, if any, be returned to the licensee.
  (d) The licensee shall pay the additional expenditure incurred when acting in the manner set out in paragraph (c) to 
the Pradeshiya Sabha in the event of where the expenditure incurred by the Pradeshiya Sabha is higher than the 
money deposited.
 18. The provisions in this  By-law shall not apply to any advertisement in the Pradeshiya Sabha area displaying in front 
of any business premises or any factory to a single notice not more than 25 square feet depicting the name, address 
and the nature of the enterprise being maintained at the said place of business or the nature of the products being 
produced at the factory or for a domestic name board and for a single advertisement carrying the phrase “on lease” 
or “for sale” or “available for rent” displayed on any property intended to be given on lease or for sale or to be given 
on rent. However, the provisions of this By-law shall not apply to more than one such advertisements displayed at a 
time.
 19. The provisions of this By-law shall not apply in respect of advertisements displayed by the Government, Government 
institutions, Provincial Council or the Pradeshiya Sabha.
20. (i) The fees determined under paragraph (b) thereof shall have been paid to the Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 5 -->

797
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2022
  (i) if the hoarding erected by the Pradeshiya Sabha under the section 15(b) of this By-law, 
  (ii) if the place is owned by any person other than the applicant, or by any other Authority, the written permission 
ensuing that a permission has been obtained to display the advertisement at the particular place shall be submitted 
along with the application.
 21. The Chairman or the Secretary may delegate any power or function or duty vested in him under this By-law to any 
officers of the Pradeshiya Sabha in writing and it shall be lawful to such person to exercise and perform such power 
or functions or duty so delegated in writing and act of such person shall be constructed to be exercised and performed 
by the Chairman within the meaning of this By-law.
 22. (a) Every licence issued for advertising under the provisions of the By-law shall be cancelled to 31st December, of 
the year or to the date for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of the By-
law.
 (b) A new licence shall be obtained when required to be displayed the existing advertisement during the succeeding 
year, Notwithstanding anything provided in this By-law the fee already charged shall be levied for the period the 
Pradeshiya Sabha intended to be levied during the succeeding year.
23.  (a) The Chairman or the Authorized Officer have the power by notice direct the licensee to restore or remove 
hoarding, support, structure or fittings if any, used for the fixing of any advertisement and which is in the state 
of that causing harm to the environment or danger or risk to any person or any property of any person, within a 
period specified thereof.
 (b) It shall be lawful to the Chairman or Authorized Officer to cancel the licence issued under this By-law and remove 
the advertisement, if that person failed to comply with the direction given in the said notice under paragraph (a) 
above within the date stipulated.
 (c) When a licence is cancelled compliance to the provisions in paragraph (b) the cash deposit paid to the Pradeshiya 
Sabha in respect of displaying the  advertisement shall be transferred to the funds of the Pradeshiya Sabha and 
no person shall have the right to claim the same.
 24. The licensee shall hold the responsibility in regard to any damage or harm caused or likely to be caused to any party 
due to a support, fixing or any other thing used connection utilized for the construction or any advertisement or due 
to the menacing or connotation implied in the said advertisement.
 25. It shall not be assumed or understood the mere fact that issuing of a licence by the Pradeshiya Sabha under this By-
law for the display of any advertisement tantamount to giving legal sanctions for the presentation of the meaning or 
the connotation embodied in the said advertisement.
26. (a) It is lawful to made a written or oral complain to the Chairman, the Secretary or to an Authorized Officer and also 
it is lawful to provide a solution after conducting a formal inquiry by those officers.
 (b) If a particular person shall not agree with the decision given by the relevant officer who mentioned in the 26th 
sentence, can submit an appeal to the governor of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council within 30 days when 
the subject minister was not appointed due to the dissolvement of the Provincial Council. It shall be legal when 
the governor gives a solution after an investigation.
 27. Any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha area contravenes or violstes any provisions provided under this By-law shall be 
an offence.
 28. The Chairman or an Authorized officer shall have the power of cancelling a certain licence issued with a notice given 
making the attention in a situation where the provisions of the this By-law were violated.

<!-- page 6 -->

798
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2022
 29. Maintaining a premises without a valid lisence that should be obtained under this  By-law or contravenes or violates 
any provisions under this By-law will be an offence and any person in the Pradeshiya Sabha area contravenes or 
violates any provisions provided under this By-law and conviction thereof by a Magistrate’s Court shall be subjected 
to a fine as described in the sub section 122(2) of the No. 15 Pradeshiya Sabha Act of 1987. If a person continues 
contravening and violating the provisions even after providing a written notice considering those violation by the 
Chairman or an Authorized Office, that person is subjected to an additional fine.
 30. In this By-law unless the context otherwise requires
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha
“Pradeshiya Sabha” means the Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Imbulpe Praeshiya Sabha or any other officer delegated to carry out the powers, 
functions and duties of the Secretary.
“Authrized Officer” means any officer of the Pradeshiya Sabha authorized by the Chairman in writing for a particular 
function
“Traffic Inspector of Police” means any officer of Pinnawala Police Station authorized by Head Quarters of Police in 
writing for a particular fuction;
“Cut-out” means, an advertisement pasted or fixed in any frame prepared using wood or any other materials;\
“Hoarding” means any permanent board built in order to fix or hold any advertisement displayed for the information or 
attention or the Public;
“Advertisement” means an advertising notice or banner or cut-out or any form of model or notice or announcement or 
business notification contraining any letters or words or illustrations used in advertising and diaplayed fully or 
partly over on a land or building or a created structure and being displayed for the information or attention or the 
public and put in place by pasting fixing erecting, hanging or any other means;
31. In the event of any inconsistancy between the sinhala, Tamil and English text of theis statute, Sinhala text shall prevail.
First Schedule
Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha
Application of Obtaining a License for Exhibiting Advertisements
To the Chairman of Imbulpe Pradeshiya Sabha
 1. Name and address of the applicant
 2. National indentity Card Number
 3. Telephone Number
 4. If the Applicant is not coming
  Name and address of the applicant
  National Identity Card Number
  Telephone Number

<!-- page 7 -->

799
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'07'08
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 08.07.2022
 5. Particulars of the advertisement :..............................................................
  (i) Size of the advertisement : Length ..........cm, Width ..........cm
  (ii) Area of the advertisement
   Location  Amount of square feet Number of sides
   Total
 6. Contents of the Advertisement
  ................................................................................................
  (Please attach a specimen copy of the advertisement)
 7. Period of displaying the advertisement
  From................... To...................
I do hereby agree to exhibit the advertisements in accordance with the provisions of the By-law of Imbulpe Pradeshiya 
Sabha, to remove the advertisements on the specific date and to obey instructions and decisions issued by Pradeshiya 
Sabha in relation this. I know that the deposit will be owned by Pradeshiya Sabha if those conditions were violated.
Furthermore, I certify that the Particulars mentioned in this are true and correct. I agree to cut and hand over those 
advertisements. If it is found the furnished information are false before displaying the advertisement and if it is found 
after the displaying I agree to hand over all the banners to Pradeshiya Sabha
   ..................................
   Signature of the applicant.
Date: ...............................
Second Schedule
fees mentioned in the Section 3(3) of this by law that should be charged are described below
Schedule Rs.  cents
1. For one square feet of a special advertisement constructed using electric bulbs and electric 
equipment per year
25 0
2 For one square feet of a permanent advertisement per year 25 0
3 For one square feet of a permanent advertisement on lands sale per year 25 0
4 For one square feet of a cloth banner on lands sale per year 10 0
5 For one square feet of a normal advertisement per year 10 0
6 For one square feet of a an advertisement exhibited in a wall/edge wall per year 25 0
7 For one square feet of an advertisement not more than 6 square feet fixed in wooden frames 10  0
8 For one square feet of hanged or fixed advertisement which exceeds the limit of the face 
of the building close by a certain street or road, or name board of the business premises 
by length per year, (25 feet is free of charge for displaying the name board of the business 
premises)
25 0
07-121
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTmENT  OF  GOvERNmENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.