

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 28.09.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2090$38 - 2018 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'09'28
No. 2090/38 - FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  28, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
CUSTOMS   ORDINANCE   ACT,   No.   83   OF   1988
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Section 103B(1) of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235), as amended, I,
Mangala Samaraweera, Minister of Finance and Mass Media of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do by this
Order promulgate regulations for the purpose of appointing Inland Clearance Depots for Less than Container Loads
(LCL). These regulations shall come to effective from October 01, 2018.
MANGALA  S AMARAWEERA ,
Minister of Finance and Mass Media.
Ministry of Finance and Mass Media,
Colombo 01,
September 28, 2018.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as Regulations for Appointment of Inland Clearance Depots (ICD) for Less than
Container Loads  (LCL).
2. Purpose of these regulations is to facilitate increasing international trade flow and to reduce congestions in the
Ports/Airports and also to allow  the Less than Container Loads (hereinafter called and referred to as “LCL”)
clearance operation in Sri Lanka by establishing Inland Clearance Depots (hereinafter called and referred to as
“ICD”) to handle the import, export and transhipment including Multi Country Consolidation (MCC) involving
LCL.
3. Appointing of the ICD shall be done by the Director General, Sri Lanka Cutsoms under his hand in accordance
with Section 103A of the Customs Ordinance and operating instructions and guidelines to be issued by the
Director General of Customs (DGC) in terms of the Customs Ordinance.
4. Approval for establishment of such ICD shall be granted by the Minister in charge of subject of Finance and to be
published in the Gazette by Sri Lanka Customs.
1A  PG 4320 — 532  (11/2018)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 28.09.2018
2A
5. In order to establish and ICD, the following eligibility criteria shall be fulfilled.
5.1 The ICD facility shall have the economic viability for the management and attractive to users. The prospective
ICD operators shall comply with the TEU traffic availability of 500 TEUs per month (Two Way) business
to be  proven to the satisfaction of the Director General of Customs.
5.2 Minimum of investment shall be a sum of Rs. 500 mn.
5.3 Land Requirements
The minimum area requirement for establishment of an ICD, including land and warehouse area shall be
125,000 square feet.
5.4 Design and Lay-Out of an ICD
a) The design and layout should be the most modern state-of-art equipped with mechanical/electrical
facilities of international standards. Key to a good lay-out is the smooth flow of containers, cargo
and vehicles through the ICD. The design and layout should take into account initial volume of business,
estimated volume in next 10 years’ and the type of facilities exporters would require. The initial lay
out should be capable of adaptation to changing circumstances. The design broadly should encompass
features like (rail) siding, container yard, gate house and security features, boundary wall (fencing),
roads, pavements, office building and public amenities. The track length and number of tracks should
be adequate to handle rakes and for stalling where relevant.
b) The perimeter fencing and lighting must meet the standards required by Customs authorities. The
gate being the focal point of site security should be properly planned.
c) The administration building is the focal point of production and processing of all documentation
relating to handling of cargo and containers and its size will be determined by the needs of potential
occupants. Fixed provisions should be made for sanitation facilities and possibly a food service
facility.
d) The entire premises including the warehouse and all entry and exit points should installed with Closed-
Circuit Television (CCTV) surveillance systems and it should be connected to the Sri Lanka Customs
headquarters.
e) Availability of proper record keeping system on accepted accounting standards acceptable to Director
General of Customs/Director of Customs (Industries and Services Directorate).
f) Gate Complex with separate entry and exit.
g) Adequate parking space for  vehicles awaiting entry to the premises.
h) Boundary wall according to standards specified by Customs.
i) Computerized processing of documents with capability of being linked to ASYCUDA World system
of Sri Lanka Customs.
j) Computerized Cargo Inventory Control System accepted by Sri Lanka Customs Ministry of Finance,
should be used.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'09'28
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 28.09.2018
3A
5.5 Equipping the  ICD
The ICD would select most modern handling equipment for loading, unloading of containers from rail
flats, chassis, their stacking, movement, cargo handling, stuffing/de-stuffing etc.
5.6 Location of ICD
ICD should be located within a reasonable distance of an international port or an airport and proximity to
the users to facilitate the movement and handling of cargo on 24 hours in all seven (07) days of the week.
Further, access roads from Port/Airport to the ICD should be suitable for heavy container moment. Reduction
in total transport cost shall be a prime criterion for location of the ICD.
5.7 Application Processing Fee
An application processing fee of Rs. 100,000/- shall be charged. This shall be credited to the consolidated
fund of the Government of Sri Lanka.
5.8 Annual License Fee for ICD
A license fee of Rs. 500,000/- shall be charged. This shall be credited to the consolidated fund of the
Government of Sri Lanka.
12- 165
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.