

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price :  Rs. 6.00  Postage  :  Rs. 10.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist  Republic  of  Sri Lanka of  February 19, 2016.
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 17th February,  2016]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 1 OF 2016

<!-- page 2 -->

Local Authorities Elections
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016
1
2—PL 009640—2,950  (01/2016)
[Certified on 17th February, 2016]
L.D.—O. 50/2015
AN  ACT TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES ELECTIONS ORDINANCE
(CHAPTER 262)
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities
Elections (Amendment)  Act, No. 1 of  2016.
2. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 27 E of the Local Authorities
Elections Ordinance (Chapter 262) (hereinafter referred to as
the “principal enactment”) and shall have effect as section
27F of that enactment:—
27F. (1) The total number of members of each
local authority as determined by the Minister
by Order made under subsection (1) of section
5 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Chapter
252), under subsection (1) of section 5 of the
Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255) or
under subsection (1) of  section 4 of the
Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of 1987 shall be
further increased by one third of such total
number of members :
Provided that, where the number constituting
a fourth of the total of the number of members
is an integer and fraction, the integer shall be
deemed to be the number which shall constitute
a fourth of the total number of such members.
Short title.
Insertion of new
section 27F in
(Chapter 262).
“Increasing
the total
number of
members.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Local Authorities Elections
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016
(2) The number so increased under
subsection (1), as determined by the Minister
by Order made under section 3 c of this
Ordinance shall form the list of women
candidates to be submitted by each recognized
political party or any group of persons
(hereinafter referred to as the “independent
group”) contesting at the elections.
(3) The number so increased under
subsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette
by Order made by the Minister.”.
3. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words commencing from “Any recognized
political party” and ending with the words “setting
out the names:-”, of the following:-
“Any recognized political party or any independent
group shall, for the purpose of election as members of
any local authority and for the returning of women
members of such local authority, submit two
nomination papers containing the lists of candidates
in respect of all wards of such local authority. One of
the two nomination papers submitted by each
recognized political party or independent group in
respect of all wards of any local authority shall consist
of a list of names of candidates for the purpose of
election as members of such local authority,
substantially in the Form set out in the First Schedule,
setting out the names:-”;
(2) by the renumbering of subsections (2A), (2B) and
(2C) of that section, respectively as (2C), (2D) and
(2E) of that section;
Amendment of
section 28 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Local Authorities Elections
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016
3
(3) by the insertion of the following new subsection (2A)
immediately after the proviso to subsection (2) of
that section:-
“(2A) The other nomination paper in respect of all
wards of any local authority referred to in subsection
(2) of this section shall consist of a list of names of
such number of women candidates ranked in order of
priority.”;
(4) by numbering the paragraph following the proviso to
subsection (2) as (2B) of that section.
4. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 65A of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 65AA of that enactment:—
65AA. In the apportionment, in accordance
with the order of priority of ranking, of the
number of women members to be returned from
all the wards of such local authority area among
the recognized political parties and
independent groups, as referred to in section
28(2A), the Commissioner of Elections shall
take into consideration the number of valid
votes polled by each recognized political party
and independent group in all the wards of such
local authority area, and the method of
apportionment set out in Article 99A of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply thereto:
Provided that, the Commissioner of
Elections shall not require the Secretary of any
recognized political party or group leader of
any independent group to make any
nomination of persons in addition to the persons
already nominated under section 28 nor shall
the Secretary or group leader, as the case may
be, submit any list making any nomination.”.
Insertion of new
section 65AA in
the principal
enactment.
“Declartion
of women
members to
be returned.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Local Authorities Elections
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
5. Section 66 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section  by the substitution
for the words and figure “returned under section 65A of this
Ordinance” of the words and figures “returned under section
65A and section 65AA of this Ordinance.”.
6. Section 66A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof as follows:—
(a) in paragraph ( b), of that subsection—
(1) by the substitution for the words and figure
“returned under section 65A of this” of the
words and figures “returned under section
65A and 65AA of this”;
(2) by the substitution for the words
“Ordinance to fill such vacancy.” of the
words “Ordinance to fill such vacancy; or;
(b) by the addition of the following new paragraph
immediately  after  paragraph  ( b)  of  that
subsection:—
“(c) who is returned as a woman member under the
provisions of section 65AA of this Ordinance,
declare returned within thirty days of the
occurrence of the vacancy, the woman
candidate whose name appears next on the
priority ranking of the other nomination paper
submitted by the respective recognized
political party or independent group, as the
case may be, in terms of subsection (2A) of
section 28.”.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Amendment of
section 66 A of
the principal
enactment.
Amendment
section 66 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Local Authorities Elections
(Amendment) Act, No. 1 of 2016
5
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .