

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.06.2010
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1658$16 - 2010 cqkss 15 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2010'06'15
No. 1658/16  -  TUESDAY,   JUNE   15,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A - G12986— 345 (2010/06)
My No.  : IR/16/03/2007.
THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES ACT, CHAPTER 131
THE Award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom
the Industrial Dispute which has arisen between
Mr.  L. W. Chandraratne, No. 255A, Sunethra Mawatha,
Papiliyana, Boralasgamuwa/L. M. N. Hettiarachchi, No. 32,
2nd Lane, Courts Road, Weligampitiya, Ja-ela/ W. A. C. S.
Perera, No. 199A, Kasagahawatta, Kotugoda/ M. W. A. Lionel,
No. 30A, Watinapaha Road, Dewalapola of the  one part and
V olanka Limited, No. 193, Minuwangoda Road, Kotugoda of
the other part was referred by order dated 23.05.2008 under
Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131
(as amended) and published in the Gazette Extraordinary, of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1553/9 dated
10.06.2008 for settlement by Arbitration  is hereby published
in terms of Section 18(1) of the said  Act.
W. J. L. U. W
IJAYAWEERA,
Commissioner General
 of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
20th  May, 2010.
In the Matter of an Industrial Dispute Between :
1. (i) L. W. Chandraratne,
No. 255A, Sunethra Mawatha,
Papiliyana, Boralasgamuwa.
(ii) L. M. N. Hettiarachchi,
No. 32, 2nd Lane, Courts Road,
Weligampitiya, Ja-ela.
(iii) W. A. C. S. Perera,
No. 199A, Kasagahawatta,
Kotugoda.
(iv) M. W. A. Lionel,
No. 30A, Watinapaha Road,
Dewalapola.
Who are employees of V olanka Limited
of  the One Part (First Part)
and
2. V olanka Limited,
No. 193, Minuwangoda Road,
Kotugoda of the Other Part (Second
Part)
1A

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.06.2010
2A
 THE  AWARD
The Hon.  Minister of  Labour Relations and Manpower
by virtue of  the powers vested in him by Section 4(1)
of the Industrial Disputes Act,  Chapter 131  of the Legislative
Enactment of Ceylon  ( 1956  Revised  Edition) as amended
by Act, Nos. 14 of 1957,  4 of 1962 and  39 of 1968, (read with
Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions  Act,  No. 37 of 1968),
appointed me as the Arbitrator by his order dated 23.05.2008
and referred the dispute between the aforesaid parties
to me for  settlement  by Arbitration.
The matters in dispute between the aforesaid parties are :-
“Whether the non-granting of bonus for the financial year
2005/2006 by V olanka Limited to the four (04) employees
namely L. W. Chandraratne, L. M. N. Hettiarachchi, W. A. C.
S. Perera and M. W. A. Lionel who are employed by the said
Company is justified and if not justified to what relief each of
them is entitled”
Appearances :
L. W. Chandraratne, L. M. N. Hettiarachchi, W. A. C. S.
Perera and M. W. A. Lionel,  the party of the 1st part appeared
by Mr. Srinath Perera, Attorney-at-Law
and
Mr. Vajira Ellepola,Attorney-at-Law appeared for the party
of the 2nd part
In the terms of Regulation 21(1) of the Industrial Dispute
Regulation, 1958 parties, namely the four employees party of
th 1st part (hereinafter referred to as First Part)  and party of
the 2nd Part (hereinafter referred to as Second Part)  namely
the V olanka Limited were noticed and required to file  their
statements of claim. In response, both parties referred to above
submitted their respective detailed statements. On the  very
first date of inquiry that is on 11.08.2008 an attempt was made
by me to bring about an amicable settlememt between parties
but proved a failure.
Thereafter 2nd Part commenced the proceeding leading in
evidence of only witness Kuruppuarachchige Tilak
Abeyruwan, Director - V olanka Exports Limited with
documents marked from 2X1 to 27X1 (B) and concluded his
case; whereas 1st Part adduced the evidence of Lelwala
Muditha Nandana Hettiarachchi marking in evidence A1 to
A6 and closed abruptly without leading evidence of the other
three employees and the employees, whose names are
reflected in the document A2
Case No : A/3244 Though an undertaking was given, the said three
employees were not called by the 1st Part to give evidence.
Then on both parties filed of record their respective written
submissions 1st Part on 22.03.2010 and 2nd part on 19.03.2010.
The industrial dispute at issue is whether the 1st part
entitled to receive the bonus for the financial years  2005/
2006. It is pertinent to state the legal position as to Bonus
benefit.
There are different types of bonuses ; namely
- The Incentive Bonus is but the payment of extra
wages to workman of some particular section or
department. In short, incentive bonus paid to
workman with a view to help up production may be
described as ‘Production Bonus’. In the case of
incentive bonus which is paid irrespective of loss
or profit. It has double advantages;
(a) it enhances the earnings of workman and
(b)  it enhances the production of the unit.
Customary Bonus depends on four conditions:
(i) that the payment has been made over on
unbroken series of years.
(ii) that the payment has been so made for a
sufficiently long period.
(iii) that the p ayment has been made at a uniform
rate throughout.
(iv) that it has been paid even in years of loss and
does not  depend upon the earnings of profits.
Thus customary bonus is a bonus that is paid, usually of
a fixed quantum irrespective of profit or loss. Bonus payments
are also made in respect of regular attendance, good conduct
and productivity.
- Attendance Bonus.—  This bonus which is  entirely
linked with attendance is generally paid in terms of
an arrangement with a trade union or the  employees
and payable irrespective of profit or loss.
- Profit Bonus.—  This a bonus is paid based on
profits. it is contingent on there being sufficient
profits. These profit-sharing bonus is something
else than productive bonus.
The Demand for Bonus is Justifiable :
- If it had been paid regularly irrespective of losses
incurred by the establishment or estate on particular
occasions;
- If wages fall short of living standards;  or
-  If the industry makes huge profits of which is due
to the workers’ contribution to production.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.06.2010
3A
In fact, discrimination in the payment of bonus to only
some employee, and difference in the quantum paid have not
obtained judicial sanction. Moreover that a bonus is based
on the contribution by labour to the profits of the industry
and that it would be irrelevant to inquire as to which  section
of the employees contributed to what those of profits. Thus
in KANKESAN  CEMENT  WORKS EMPLOYEES'
SANGAM  V  CEYLON CEMENT  CORPORATION (ID 287
CGG 12, 321 of 17 March 1961)
The court rejected an argument executives and clerks
should not be paid bonus at the same rate as manual workers
as the former received higher salaries and contributed  less
towards the profits of the undertaking.
The application of the principal laid down here will be
considered shortly.
In fact 2nd part raised a preliminary objection that the
empolyees referred to in this Arbitration are not employees
of Volanka Limited, as at the date of  purported dispute, an
Industrial Dispute cannot arise against an empolyer who
denies employment of the above said 1st part and that  the
reference is bad in law and this matter should be dismissed
in limine.
It is to be analyzed first for the reason that one must know
who one’s employer is?  In this respect 2nd part has to
establish that the 1st part employees are employees  of
Volanka Exports Limited , led the evidence of sole witness
Abeyruwan and explained that around 1998 Board of
Directors of Volanka Limited, decided to float a company by
the name of “Volanka Exports Ltd”  and it was  established
and the business of Volanka Limited continued under the
new company and the 1st part was absorbed by Volanka
Exports Limited  and discharged their duties under this
company. As against this the 1st part adamantly demonstrated
that  they were recruited by Volanka Limited, their names are
still maintained  in the said staff payroll system (22X2 and
23X2) and moreover the statutory payments namely EPF and
ETF and continued under Volanka Ltd and their status quo
remain the same.
The proceedings of 28.08.2008 at pages 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13
may be noted.
Court :
Q. If  the employees say that from the time  they joined
the company and upto now, they are still in V olanka
Ltd., what have you got to say?
A. In fact, including these 4 employees,  about 150
employees were absorbed into V olanka Exports in
the  year 2000 and their salaries were also paid
through the new Company V olanka Exports Limited.
Q. If the employees say that they did not know that
they were employees of V olanka Exports Limited but
they are  still in V olanka Ltd, what will be your
answer?
A. We Explained to all these employees including these
4 employees in the year  2000 that they will be
absorbed into V olanka Exports Ltd. and therefore
they cannot make statements like that,
Q . In their statement they insist that  they are
employees of V olanka Ltd.and they are unaware of
V olanka Exports Ltd. and they are still the empolyees
of V olanka Ltd. and therefore they are entitled to
bonus, what have you got to say?
A. From the year 2000 bonus was paid to all the
employees under V olanka Exports Ltd. including
these 4 employees.
Q . At the Central Bank you are depositing the
Empolyees Provident Fund contributions in V olanka
Ltd.?
A. Yes.
Q. Did you bring to the notice  of the Central Bank that
there is a subsidiary company under the name of
V olanka Exports Ltd.?
A. We have imformed the Central Bank and the
employees who joined this company after the year
2000, their EPF contributions are  remitted under
V olanka Exports Limited.
Q.  If the empolyees here produce the EPF document
stating that their EPF contributions are made under
V olanka Ltd.  What have you got to say?
A. That is true. We have been continuing to deposit
under V olanka Ltd.
Q . You informed this Court the reasons for the
continuation of those payments under V olanka  Ltd.?
A. Yes.
Q. Can you repeat that answer?
A. We continue EPF and ETF payments under V olanka
Ltd. When V olanka Exports Ltd., was established
and when these employees were informed about the
changes, they had the fear of change of empolyment
from V olanka  Ltd . to V olanka Exports Ltd. will have
an adverse effect on their balances and interest of
EPF and ETF and  also in relation to gratuity, we
decided to continue the payments under V olanka
Ltd.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.06.2010
4A
Q. When  a company is separate entity, why did you
not give fresh letters of appointment when the new
company came into existance?
A. We wanted to give new letters of appointment, but
as all the employees did not agree to that, we did not
go ahead with those new letters of appointments.
Q. These employees you said continued in V olanka
Exports Ltd. under the same capacity?
A. Yes.
Moreover the same witness gave the following evidence
on Cross Examination on 24.02.2009 pages 2,3,4,6 and 7.
Q. According to your evidence-in-chief now you are
working both in V olanka Limited and V olanka Export Limited?
A. Yes.
Q. V olanka Export Limited was established in year 2000?
A. Yes.
Q. But in your statement to the Court you have stated
that these employees were transferred to V olanka
Export Limited on or around 1998?
A. Actually V olanka Export Limited is established in
1998 but operation started from April 1999.
Q. When were these employees transferred to V olanka
Export Limited
A. That is with effect from April 1999.
Q. Then again in your evidence-in-chief on the first
day that is 28.08.2008 at page 3 you have stated that
"in the year 1998"
A. Yes.
Cross Examination re-commenced
Q. .................... witness the management of your
company decided to establish a new company in
the name of V olanka Export Limited?
A. Yes.
Q. And have the functions of these two companies
officially defined in any document?
A. No.
Q. Then it appears that  V olanka Export Limited has
been established in order to export business?
A. It was established to do the production as well as
the exports.
Q. What are the productions carried out by the V olanka
Export Limited?
A. This is coconut fibre products
Q. Then where were these production activities carried
out in the new Company?
A. In the same factory.
Q. That means the factory which was functioning under
the V olanka  Limited?
A. No.
Q. Now it seems that from your answers V olanka Export
Limited and V olanka Limited functions at the same
premises?
A.  No. V olanka Export Limited took over the functions
of categories and V olanka  Limited was handling
only the financial matters.
Q. Were they functioning from same premises or
difference places?
A. Factories were functioning at Different places and
the officers were functioning separately but in the
same building for V olanka Export Limited and V olanka
Limited.
Q. Where were those factories situated ?
A. They were at Ekala and Naththandiya.
Further Cross-Examination
Q. During that period these factories were run by
V olanka Limited ?
A. Befor V olanka Exports Limited was established these
factories were run by V olanka Limited.
Q. Then what type of financial and investment business
did the V olanka Limited engage in after 1999 ?
A. After 1999  V olanka Limited leased it buildings on
rent to V olanka Exports Limited. In addition V olanka
Limited invested in Hayley's Group of Companies
and generated income.
Q. Was there any agreement signed between V olanka
Exports Limited and V olanka Limited for this purpose?
A. Agreement was not signed but payment based on
floor area was agreed upon.
Q. Agreed upon between whom ?
A. Between the management of V olanka Export Limited
and V olanka Limited.
Q. Were the two Management different ?
A.  Yes. The personnel were different.
Q. Then you mean that the personal management in
these two companies verbally agreed to lease out
these buildings ?
A. Not only verbally but when the prices were
mentioned agreement was communicated in writing.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'0 6'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.06.2010
5A
and further Cross Examination in Sinhala dated
26.03.2009 at pages 8and 9 appended below :–
m%' tal, iy kd;a;kaäfha msysá l¾udka;Yd,d
fjd,kald tlaiafmdaÜ wdh;khg mejÍula isÿ
l<d o @
W' mejÍula isÿ l<d'
m%' tu mejÍu isÿ lf<a fudk wdldrhg o @
W' mejÍu isÿ l< 1999'04'01 jeks Èk isg fjd,kald
,sñgâ wdh;kh fjd,kald tlaiafmdaÜ wdh;kfhka
tu l¾udka; Yd,d N+ñh fjkqfjka l=,shla wh lsÍug
mgka .;a;d'
m%' fjd,kald ,sñgâ iud.fï ;snqK wdh;k fjd,kald
tlaiafmdaÜ wdh;khg mejÍu fjkqfjka lsisu
wdldrhl ffk;sl ,shú,a,la ilia flrefõ
keoao @
W' mejÍu fjkqfjka lsisu wdldrhl ffk;sl
,shú,a,la ilia flrefõ keye'
m%' ;ud okakjdo l¾udka;Yd,djl msysgd ;snqK N+ñfha
ffk;sl whs;sh ld fj;o ;snqfKa lshd @
W' okakjd'
m%' ldgo whs;sh ;snqfKa @
W' fjd,kald ,sñgâ wdh;khg'
m%' wo jk ;=re ta whs;sh ;sfnkafka fjd,kald ,sñgâ
wdh;khg o @
W' Tõ'
m%' fjd,kald ,sñgâ wdh;kh wvq jYfhka tu foam<
nÿ §u i|ydj;a ffk;sl f,aLkhla ilia lrkq
,enQfõ keye@
W' keye'
m%' 1999 wfm%a,a udifha § l¾udka;Yd,d fjd,kald
tlaiafmdaÜia wdh;kh úiska mjrd .ekSu' fya;=fjka"
;ud lshk úêhg ta jljdkqfõ § lsishï l=,shla
fjd,kald ,sñgâ wdh;khg fjd,kald tlaiafmdaÜia
wdh;kh úiska f.õjd o @
W' fuu f.ùu lf,a udisl l=,sh jYfhka" mdúÉÑ l<
f.dvke.s,s j, j¾. m%udKh wkqj uf.a u;lfha
yeáhg wdrïNfha§ j¾. wählg re' 15 l muK
uqo,la f.ùug isÿ jqKd'
m%' wo jk úg fldmuK f.jkjdo @
W' uu okakd ;rñka th re' 20la olajd jeä ù ;sfnkjd'
m%' ;ud okakd ;rñka lSfõ ;udg wvudk ksid o@
W' tu f;dr;=re ;sfnkafka uqo,a l<uKdlre <`. ksid
th ia:_r jYfhka ug lshkak neye'
m%' uqo,a f.ùu fjkqfjka ßisÜ m;la ksl=;a lrkjd o@
W' lïmeKs fol w;r uqo,a yqjudre jk l%uhla ;sfnkjd'
ta wkqj fjd,kald tlaiafmdaÜ wdh;kfhka tu uqo,a
wh lr .kakjd bkafjdhsia tlla bÈßm;a lr' ta
wkqj fjd,kald tlaiafmdaÜ wdh;kh fuu
f.dvke`.s,s i|yd f.ùï lrkjd'
2nd part Position was while admitting above
facts and contended that salaries and EPF and ETF
(statutory dues) continued under the company
"V olanka Ltd", as the employees feared, if not,
continuity of employment would get disturbed. It is
a matter of convenience as it appears. According to
the sole witness, the said payments continued under
the name of "V olanka Ltd" at the request of the
employees though actually the payments were made
by V olanka Exports Ltd. in support "22 X 1", 22 X 3",
23 x 1 and  "23 X 3" were marked. One could question
the  validity of this arrangement and if one considers
that a company is a separate legal entity it should be
divorced from all activities of the parent company
as regard every other thing also. In as mush as it is
an independent company it should not interfere with
the official matter of its employee.
Even if one admits that the 1st part employees of
V olanka Exports Limited they are singled out as a
special group of four. The explanation tendered by
the 2nd part was after the restructuring process in
2004 the 1st part was asked to accept the V oluntary
Retirement Scheme to which they flatly refused, as a
result they had been categorized as an excess
element and set under the charge of Financil Manager
who was not called as a witness to enlighten on that
point, Moreover the 2nd part argued that the V olanka
Exports Ltd did not make an application under the
Termination of Employment of Workmen (Special
Provisions) Act to the Department of Labour as the
company is a member of Hayley's Group of
Companies and consider the future prospects of its
employees. It must be noted that this is not the fault
of  the 1st part and also that keeping them in V olanka
Ltd. register for the purposes of statutory
contributions is also no concern of the said
employees and therefore they still maintain and that
they are the employees of V olanka Limited (A3a,
A3b, A4, A5A and 5X in 23X2). That argument does
not hold water.
In short according to the evidence of 2nd part
reiterated in the year 1998 the Board of Directors
decided to establish a company under the name of
V olanka Exports Ltd. to export coir to other countries

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'06'15
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 15.06.2010
6A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
and at this stage V olanka Ltd. the parent company
was transformed into an Investment Company and
V olanka Ltd. did not engage in, manufacturing
process or exporting of coir after, 2000. It must be
noted that there were about 150 factory workers and
about 40 employees of Executive, Supervisory and
Clerical grades and in totality the employees were
transferred or absorbed into V olanka Exports Ltd.
and but only 26 employees who were in that
Executive and Clerical grades including the
Managing Director –I. Piyasena - (Who was not
called as a witness) were all well entrenched there.
Above fact when taken in its proper Perspective
one may doubt the genuineness of the total
transaction between V olanka Limited and V olanka
Exports Ltd. Copious documents were marked
namely 2 X 1 to 5 X 6, 6 X 1 to 22 X 1, 23 X 1 and 24
X 1 to 27 X B headed V olanka Exports Limited to
show that 1st part is the employees of V olanka
Exports Limited. In fact on the face of it may appear
to be so but not so in reality.  Any prudent individual
will discover a fishy situation in this connection. In
that sense, what has been discussed and discovered
above is the true scenario of the plight of the 1st
part, I decline to accept the position that the 1st part
is the employees of V olanka Exports Limited but
conspicuously they are truly and legally employees
of V olanka Limited for the reasons stated above.
Therefore the reference is valid in law and the
preliminary objection is overruled.
Now turning to issue under reference to me as to
non-payment of bonus for finacial year 2005/2006 ;
on a strict scrutiny of evidence in toto the 1st part
must stand or fall on the strength of evidence of
Hettiarachchi alone who vehemently contended that
they namely under reference.
(iii) W. A. C. S. Perera – Supervisor (now retired)
(iv) M. W.  A. Lionel – Peon (now retired)
(i) L. W.  Chandraratne – Clerk and
(ii) L. M. N. Hettiarachchi – Supervisor
all of whom are to be included in the list marked
and produced in court A2 – which contained 15
names only, which document was admitted by 2nd
part without any question. In A2 there is no name of
the employer or under which company they received
the bouns. As I mentioned earlier none of the
employees in A2 was summoned as a witness to
corroborate and to strengthen the position of 1st
part. That is a fatal below to the 1st part. Having
undertaken and threatened to lead evidence to be
given in the list in A2 and abandoning it altogether
is a serious mistake. Had the 1st part subtantiated
their contention Court could have to come to an
appropriate conclusion in their favour.
It is now unnecessary to go into detail analysis of
the copious documents and evidence led in respect
of V olanka Exports Limited as it is of no avail in law.
On assessing and evaluating the evidence of 1st
and 2nd parts respectively, both parties are of the
same level in the balance and the weight of evidence
never titled on either side.
Taking Hettiarachchi first he failed to demonstrate
affirmatively that V olanka Limited in fact paid  the
bonus. In the absence of any substantial and
concrete evidence it is nothing but fair to decline
any relief to him and in turn other three employees
under reference ; whereas witness Abeyruwan's
evidence was not without any infirmity but laced
with inconsistencies and contradictions as tabled
as above.
It is a matter of interest incidentally to note that
the 1st part merely Marked A1 which is the findings
given by Commissioner of Labour (Industrial
Relations) to which I am inclined to disagree.
In the circumstances I hold that the workmen are
not entitled to any bonus for the financial year 2005/
2006. And thus they are not entitled to any claim in
terms of reference.
Therefore I make no award.
T. E
DMUND SANTHARAJAN,
Arbitrator.
Dated at Colombo on
this 27th day of April, 2010.
07 - 74