

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2373$26 - 2024 fmnrjdß ui 28 jeks nodod - 2024'02'28
No. 2373/26  -  wedNesday,   february  28, 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6660- 429 (02/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CuSTOmS  NOTIfICATION
Regulations  under  Section 101 of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
by virtue of the powers vested in me by section 101. (1) (f) of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) as amended, I, ranil 
wickremesinghe, Minister of finance, economic stabilization and National Policies, promulgate following regulations.
 Ranil WickRemesinghe,
 Minister of finance, economic   
 stabilization and National Policies.
Ministry of finance, economic stabilization and National Policies,
Colombo 01,
28th february, 2024.
reGulatIONs
Preliminary
	 01.	 These	Regulations	may	be	cited	as	the	“Advance	Customs	Rulings	on	Commodity	Classification	Regulations	
01/2024”  and shall come into effect on 01 March, 2024.
	 02.	 These	Regulations	shall	govern	all	the	matters	pertaining	to	“Advance	Customs	Rulings	on	Commodity	Classification”	
hereinafter referred to as “advance Customs rulings”
	 03.	 “Advance	Customs	Rulings”	means	a	written	decision	on	an	application	relating	to	classification	of	goods/	commodity,	
raised by an applicant in his application in respect of any goods/ commodity prior to importation or exportation of 
goods/ commodity.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.02.2024
2a
Application for Advance Customs Ruling
 04. any importer, exporter or local manufacturer (hereafter referred to as "the applicant"), who has opted to seek 
Advance	Customs	Ruling	on	the	HS	classification	of	goods	from	the	Sri	Lanka	Customs,	shall	submit	an	application	
substantially in conformity with the format set out in schedule I to these regulations.
 05. separate application shall be submitted for advance Customs ruling for each commodity, if a person is interested to 
obtain advance Customs ruling for more than one commodity.
 06. application for advance Customs ruling shall be supported by samples, accredited laboratory issued analysis 
reports, material safety data sheets, commodity literature, manufacturing processes, mill reports, catalogues/
brochures, composition, photographs, plans and any other documents including online materials, as appropriate, 
with the authentication of the applicant.
 07. application together with samples and other related documents shall be addressed and submitted to the director 
General of Customs, sri lanka Customs, No. 40, Main street, Colombo 11.
Processing of Application for Issuance of Advance Customs Ruling
 08. the specialized services directorate of the sri lanka Customs, hereinafter referred to as "the directorate" shall 
process including follow up application for advance Customs rulings as directed by the director General of 
Customs.
 09. the directorate may request any further information including data and documents, from the applicant and failure 
of the applicant to provide such information within a duration of 30 days from the date of such request without any 
acceptable reason in written form, shall result in rejection of the application.
 10. the directorate shall allocate and issue a reference number on each application together with an acknowledgement 
for receipt of the application enabling the applicant to get update on his application and for future reference.
 11. the directorate shall also introduce and implement an automated system for tracking the status of the application 
using the reference number assigned to the application by the directorate.
	 12.	 The	Directorate	shall	call	the	applicant	in	person	to	obtain	clarification	relevant	to	the	application	and	related	
information, provided by the applicant. 
 13. the director General of Customs shall issue an advance Customs ruling on every application within 60 days from 
the date of submission of duly completed application by the applicant and the decision shall be made available in the 
Customs ruling database.
 14. advance Customs ruling shall only be issued at Hs Code eight (08) digit basis where appropriate.
Legal Validity of an Advance Customs Ruling for Customs Purposes
 15. an advance Customs ruling, issued by the director General of Customs, shall be binding on the applicant as well 
as on the director General of Customs and shall be valid for two years from the date of issuance, unless otherwise 
such advance Customs ruling is withdrawn or cancelled in writing with valid reason (s) or legally invalidated by a 
legal authority, whichever comes earlier.
 16. Validity of an advance Customs ruling shall cease to be in force due to changes to the Hs Codes in the schedule a 
of the Customs Ordinance by introduction of Hs National sub divisions or transposition or revision of Harmonized 
Commodity description and Coding system (Hs) by the w orld Customs Organization (wCO).

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.02.2024
3a
 17. director General of Customs may reject or refuse to accept an application for advance Customs ruling for a 
commodity at any stage of processing of such application, if it was already considered and decided by the director 
General or an appellate tribunal or any Court. 
 18. an advance Customs ruling shall be annulled with immediate effect if proven that any fact submitted by the 
applicant is incorrect, incomplete, false or misleading.
 19. advance Customs ruling, issued by the director General of Customs, shall only be applicable for use within sri 
lanka.
Appeal on the Decision on the Advance Customs Ruling
 20. an applicant, who sought and obtained advance Customs ruling or a reviewed decision on his application for 
Advance	Customs	Ruling,	is	not	satisfied	with	such	Advance	Customs	Ruling	or	reviewed	decision,	the	applicant	
may make an appeal in writing to the director General of Customs with facts to justify his appeal along with all 
supporting documents to substantiate the appal within 14 days from the date of issuance of such advance Customs 
rulings or decision to the applicant.
	 21.	 Every	appeal	referred	in	the	Regulations	No.	20	above	shall	be	referred	to	the	Nomenclature	and	Classification	
Committee hereinafter referred to as "NC Committee" for examination and decision within 30 days from the date of 
receipt of appeal on the advance Customs ruling or reviewed decision.
Payment of fees
 22. a  non-refundable application fee of rs. 15,000/= shall be paid to the director General of Customs together with each 
application by applicant who wishes to seek an advance Customs ruling.
 23. a  non-refundable appeal fee of rs. 10,000/= shall be paid to the director General of Customs together with each 
application for appeal by applicant, who wishes to seek a review on the decision of the director General on his 
application for advance Customs ruling.
 24. all fees, charged and collected under these regulations shall be credited to the Consolidated fund.
 25. director General of Customs may decide to obtain further analysis report or opinion of an expert for consideration 
of an application for advance Customs ruling on a particular commodity and any related expenses incurred namely 
charges	on	laboratory	reports,	delivering	samples	under	the	supervision	of	an	authorized	officer	of	customs	shall	be	
borne by the applicant, when informed by the director General of Customs to do so.
General Provisions
 26. all advance Customs rulings shall be in conformity with applicable rules published in the Gazette as part of 
schedule a of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) as amended, and shall be in force until such rules are rescinded 
according to law, however without prejudice to anything done during the validity period of such rules.
	 27.	 Applicants	who	provide	falsified	and/	or	inaccurate	information	shall	be	dealt	with	according	to	the	provisions	of	the	
Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) as amended and other applicable laws.
	 28.	 Advance	Customs	Ruling	shall	not	be	given,	where	the	question	related	to	HS	classification,	raised	in	the	application	
is;
	 (a)	 Already	pending	in	the	applicant's	case	before	proper	officer	of	Customs,	 Appellate	Tribunal	or	any	Court;
 (b) same as in a matter already decided by the appellate tribunal or any Court. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.02.2024
4a
schedule I

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.02.2024
5a
eOG 02 - 0208
PRinTeD a T The DeP aRTmenT OF gOVeRnmenT PRinTing,  sRi lanka.