

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 220]
————————
Presented by the Hon. Charles Nirmalanathan, M.P.
for Vanni District on 05th of December, 2023
(Published in the Gazette on November 24, 2023)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 18.00 Postage : Rs. 150.00
2-2d
2-
——————
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Ww
ws
VANNI MANN CHARITY FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Vanni Mann Charity Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

Vanni Mann Charity Foundation (Incorporation) 1
5
10
15
20
Short title
Incorporation
of the Vanni
Mann charity
Foundation
Preamble
25
AN ACT TO INCORPRATE THE VANNI MANN CHARITY
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS A  Foundation  called and known as the
“Vanni Mann Charity Foundation ” has heretofore been
formed in Sri Lanka the purpose of effectually carrying out
and transacting all objects and matters connected with the
said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by the
members:
AND WHEREAS the said F oundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Vanni Mann Charity
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2023.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Vanni Mann Charity Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as
the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of  “Vanni
Mann Charity Foundation ” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) and by that name may sue and be sued and
have full power and  authority to have and use a common seal
and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (1) The general objects for which the Coporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be–
(a) To conduct motivation programmes to encourage
school children;
General
objects of the
corporation

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Vanni Mann Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Management
of the affairs
of the body
corporate
25
(b) To participate in social, cultural and economic
development of the country;
(c) To take measures to protect and discipline and
cultural values of the people;
(d) to give assistance to develop worship places;
(e) to establish information technology centers for the
advanancement of scienific studies;
(f) to work towards to protect and develop all rights of
women and children;
(g) to promote peace,goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;
(h) to assist needy school children to enable them to
continue their education; and
(i) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4.  (1) Management of the affairs of the Corporation shall,
subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules in
force for the time being of the corporation be administered
by a Committee of Management consisting of Chairman,
Secretary, Treasurer and another eleven members elected in
accordance with such rules.
(2) The first Committee of Management shall consist of
the members of the Committee of Management holding office
on the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act.

<!-- page 4 -->

Vanni Mann Charity Foundation (Incorporation) 3
5
10
15
20
25
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold Property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any building
or structures on any land held by the corporation and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the corporation.
6. (1) It shall be  lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two thirds of the members present
to make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, on all or any of the following
matters:-
(a) the classification of members and the admission,
withdrawal, expulsion of members;
(b) the election of office bearers, the resignation from,
vacation of or removal from office bearers and their
powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committees of
the Management and its powers, conduct and duties;
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Committee of
Management or sub committee and of the time,
places, notices and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum thereof and the conduct of business thereof;
(e) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of Corporation;
General
Power of the
Corporation
Rules of the
Corporation
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Vanni Mann Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Debts due by
and payable
to the
foundation
(f) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation, the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) the management of the affairs of the corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act, shall be
paid and discharge by the
 Corporation hereby constituted
and all debts due to,  subscriptions and contributions payable
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monyes heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the corporation shall be deposited
to the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Committee of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9.    The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of  the same.
30
Fund of the
Corporation
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable

<!-- page 6 -->

Vanni Mann Charity Foundation (Incorporation) 5
5
10
15
20
25
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their rules  prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their members.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all moneys received and expended,by the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and Audited at least once  in every year and the correctness
of income and expenditure account and balance sheet
certified by a qualified auditor appointed by the Committee
of Management.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means–
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or  any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practise as an Accountant, issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or any other institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute.
Property
remaining on
dissolution
Audit and
accounts the
coporation

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Vanni Mann Charity Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
12. The Seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two
members of the Committee of Management, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other persons expect such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistancy
Seal of the
Corporation

<!-- page 8 -->

Vanni Mann Charity Foundation (Incorporation) 7
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING