

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1728
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1722
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"199 – 2020 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'10'23
No. 2,199  –  fRiday ,  octobER 23, 2020
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th November, 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th october, 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1719 - b 82071- 5,403 (10/2020)
N.B.–  (i) Part II of the Gazette No. 2198 of 16.10.2020 was not published.
 (ii) The List of Jurors in Colombo District Jurisdiction Areas in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala, Tamil, English Languages.
 (iii) In the Extraordinary Gazette No. 2198/13 dated Tuesday 20th October, 2020, a notice by the Ministry of Justice has been 
published Inviting the General Public to submit their proposals for drafting a new Constitution for Sri Lanka.
Note.—  (i)  appropriation (2020) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 
october 02, 2020.
 (ii)  appropriation (2021) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 
october 02, 2020.
 (iii) Evidence (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 
october 16, 2020.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1720
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1721
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1722
Posts – vacant
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Notice to call applications to promote to the Special Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service —
to the post of “Senior Meteorological Officer”, on seniority and merit basis of the Grade 1 officers in the 
Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Department of meteorology
aPPLicatioNS are called from the retirees and the officers who are now in the service (meteorological officer/ observer/ 
communicator) who have fulfilled the minimum qualifications shown in the table below to the date that the post fell vacant, 
to fill the vacancies in the Special Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Department of Meteorology in 2012, 
2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017.
Year The date on which the 
post fell vacant No. of vacancies
2012 2012.10.24 01
2014 2014.01.13 01
2014.07.01 01
2014.10.29 01
2015 2015.02.02 01
2015.04.06 01
2015.04.06 01
2015.04.06 01
2015.04.06 01
2016 2016.11.05 01
2017 2017.03.10 01
(For those vacancies, the qualifications of the applicants will be checked to the date that the post fell vacant.)
2. Applying process.– applications prepared according to the specimen form given at the end of the notice 
should be sent by registered post or by hand on or before 20.11.2020, to the Director General of Meteorology, No. 383, 
Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 07. “Interview to promote the Grade 1 officers in the Sri Lanka Technological Service in 
the Department of Meteorology to the Special Grade in the Sri Lanka Technological Service on seniority and merit basis” 
should be mentioned in the top left hand corner of the envelope.
3. Qualifications :
 (a) Should have completed an active and satisfactory minimum period of 06 years in a Grade 1 post in 
the Supervisory management assistant (technical) service (MN -03) and should have earned all the six 
increments to the relevant date.
 (b) Should have completed five (05) years of satisfactory service immediately preceding to the date of 
promotion.  
 (c)  Should have demonstrated a satisfactory performance or above the required level in service during preceding 
06 years on the date of promotion in terms of the approved Performance appraisal scheme. 
 (d) Should have successfully completed the third Efficiency Bar Examination.
These vacancies exist in the head office and the meteorological office in Katunayaka Air Port and such vacancies 
can occur in other offices in the future.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1723
4. Method of Recruitment.– The vacancies are filled after verifying that the applicants who have fulfilled qualifications 
mentioned in paragraph 03, to the vacancy dates mentioned in above table, have fulfilled other related requirements and in 
order of merit of the total marks they have obtained in the structured interview conducted by an interview board appointed 
by the Public Service commission.
5. Salary for the post :
 i. for the years 2012, 2014 and 2015
  As per P.A.C. 06/2006 (IV) MN 7 2006 A - Rs. 20,030-11 x 365 - 18 x500 - Rs. 33,045/=
 ii. for the years 2016 and 2017
  As per P.A.C. 03/2016 MN 7 2016 - Rs. 41,580 - 11 x755 - 18 x1,030 - Rs. 68,425/=
6. Marks will be given for the qualifications verified at the interview from certificates and documents.
7. Promoting the Grade 1 officers in the Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Department of 
Meteorology to the Special Grade in the Sri Lanka Technological Service - (“Senior Meteorological Officer”) on 
seniority and merit basis.
marking Scheme
 I.  Service 50 marks
  Upon the completion of 06 years of satisfactory service as a Grade 1 officer in the Sri Lanka Technological 
Service 2.5 marks will be added for each year added to that period. Maximum marks 50
 II.  merit  50 marks
   i.  Professional Qualifications 20 marks
     A. In the relevant field
    a. for the Grade III certificate of the World Meteorological Organization 10 marks
    b. For the Grade IV certificate of the World Meteorological Organization 05 marks
     b. for the foreign training given by the department :
    a. For a successfully completed course certificate that covered 30 days or more. 05 marks
    b. For a successfully completed course certificate that covered 29-  15 days  03 marks
    c. For a successfully completed course certificate that covered less 01 mark
     than 14 days 
  ii. Training related to the job 20 marks
    a. Radar training 08 marks
    b. Japan SoNdE training 02 marks
    c. continuous training programmes given by the department, 02 marks for 10 marks
     each training
  iii.  Language Skill 05 marks
     International language
    a. Pass GcE (a/L) in English medium or complete University education
     in English medium 05 marks
    b. Diploma Certificate in English for a course with a duration not less than 06 months  05 marks
     from a university/ institution recognized by the UGC.
    c. Certificate Course in English for a course with a duration not less than 06 months  05 marks
     from a university/ institution recognized by the UGC.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1724
    d. Pass English as a subject in the GcE (a/L) Examination 04 marks
    e. Pass English with a distinction pass in the GcE (o/L) Examination 04 marks
    f. Pass English with a credit pass in the GcE (o/L) Examination 03 marks
    g. Pass English in the GcE (o/L) Examination 02 marks
(marks will be given for one which is the highest.) 
 iv.  computer literacy 05 marks
 a. Computer diploma certificate with a duration not less than 720 hours obtained from  05 marks
  an institution recognized by the Tertiary Education Commission / Certificate course
 b. Computer certificate course with a duration not less than 350 hours obtained from  04 marks
   an institution recognized by the Tertiary Education Commission.
 c. Computer certificate course organized by the department 03 marks
as ordered by the Public Service commission, 
  Secretary, 
  State Ministry of Internal Security,
  Home Affairs and Disaster Management.
date : 05th october, 2020.
Promoting the Grade 1 officers in the Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Department of Meteorology 
to the Special Grade in the Sri Lanka Technological Service - (“Senior Meteorological Officer”) on seniority and 
merit basis
Specimen Application form
1. Name of the officer -
2. Date on which he was appointed to the Grade 1 in SLTS -
3. The service in Grade 1 in SLTS to the dates mentioned in the table below -
Date Service to that date
Years Months Dates
2012.10.24
2014.01.13
2014.07.01
2014.10.29
2015.02.02
2015.04.06
2015.04.06
2015.04.06
2015.04.06
2016.11.05
2017.03.10

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1725
4. Professional qualifications :
Serial
No. Training The date on which it was 
obtained/ completed
01 Grade iii certificate of the World Meteorological Organization
02 Grade IV certificate of the World Meteorological Organization
03 foreign training given by the department
04 Other professional certificates
5. details of all the training obtained from the department -
Serial
No. Training Date of
commencement Date of completion
01 Radar training
02 continuous training given by the department
03 other training
6. Language skills -
Serial
No. Language skills Date on which it was obtained 
/ date of completion
01 international language
02 Second language
7. computer literacy -
Serial
No. Training Institution Date on which it was obtained 
/ date of completion
8.  I hereby agree to serve in Colombo, Mattala and Katunayaka meteorological offices and in any other office named by 
the Director General of Meteorology if I got the promotion to the special grade in the SLTS.
 ......................................... ......................................... 
 date  Signature of the applicant.
10–949
––––––––––––––––––––––
NATIONAL DANGEROuS DRuGS CONTROL 
bOARD 
vacancies 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka 
to fill the following vacancies in the National Dangerous 
drugs control board. 
01. Position– Director (Administration) 
      Service Category – “higher manager”
      No of vacancies - 01
01.1 Qualifications  :
01.1.1 External Candidates  
 Should have a degree in Management/ 
Commerce/ Human Resource Management/ 
Public Administration recognized by the 
University Grants commission  
With
 A master’s degree recognized by the 
University Grants commission and relevant 
to the subject and relevant to the post

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1726
and
 Should have at least 15 years of experience 
in the relevant field in a managerial 
level position in a Government, Public 
corporation/ Statutory board/ or in a 
recognized Private Institution. 
02. Position– Director (finance) 
      Service Category – “higher manager” 
      No of vacancies - 01
02.1 Qualifications :
02.1.1 External Candidates  (1 or 2 below)
1. Should have a degree in finance / 
Accounting / Commerce/ recognized 
by the University  Grants commission 
or
 Should have been a member of the 
institute of chartered accountants 
of Sri Lanka or a member of the 
Chartered Institute of Management 
Accountants (CIMA) in the United 
Kingdom or a member of the institute 
of Chartered Certified Accountants 
(acca).
 With
 A master’s degree recognized by the 
University Grants commission and 
relevant to the subject and relevant to 
the post
 and
 Should have at least 15 years of 
experience in the relevant field in 
a managerial level position in a 
government, public corporation / 
statutory board / department or a 
recognized private institution after 
obtaining the above first degree 
qualifications.
2. full membership of the institute of 
chartered accountants of Sri Lanka
 and
 Should have at least 15 years of 
experience in the relevant field in 
a managerial level position in a 
Government, Public corporation / 
Statutory institution / board / or a 
recognized Private Institution.
03. Position– Director (Drug Prevention, Education 
and Training) 
      Service Category – “higher manager” 
      No of vacancies - 01
03.1 Qualifications 
03.1.1 External Candidates  
1.  Should have a degree in a social 
sciences recognized by the University 
Grants commission.
 With
 A master’s degree recognized by 
the University Grants commission 
and relevant to the subject area and 
relevant to the post.
 and
 Should have at least 15 years of 
experience in the relevant field in a 
managerial level post in a government, 
public corporation / Statutory  board 
/ department or a recognized private 
institution after obtaining the above 
first degree qualifications.
Internal Candidates (for posts 1, 2
 & 
3 above)
1.  Should have fulfilled the qualifications 
as per above external applicants
 or
2. Should have completed at least 5 
years of satisfactory service in the 
relevant subject area in Grade i of the 
Middle Management Services (MM) 
category of the National dangerous 
drugs control board.
Salary Code - hm 1-1
Salary Scale
 Rs.(80,295 - 15  x 2,270 - Rs. 114,345/-)
(in addition to the above salary, Government approved 
other allowances will be paid) 
Age - Must be not less than 35 years and not more than 
55 years. for internal applicants the maximum age limit 
does not apply.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1727
04.  Position– Assistant Director - (Research)
        Service Category – “manager”
        No of vacancies - 01
04.1.Qualifications 
04.1.1 External Candidates  
 
Should have a degree in Sociology / 
Criminology / Social Work / Statistics / 
Information Technology recognized by 
the University Grants commission. 
 and
 Should have at least 03 years of 
experience in the field relevant to the post 
after obtaining the above mentioned first 
degree.
05. Position– Assistant Director - (Treatment and 
Rehabilitation)
      Service Category – “manager”
      No of vacancies - 01
05.1.Qualifications 
05.1.1 External Candidates  
  Should have a degree in Sociology 
/ Psychology / criminology / Social 
Work recognized by the University 
Grants commission.
  and
  Should have at least 03 years of 
experience in the field relevant to 
the post after obtaining the above 
mentioned first degree.
 Internal Candidates (for posts 4 & 5 
above)
 1. Should have fulfilled the qualifications 
for the above external applicants
  or
 2.Should have completed at least 5 years 
of satisfactory service in the relevant 
subject area in Grade ii of the Junior 
Management Services (JM) category of 
the National dangerous drugs control  
board.
Salary Code - mm 1-1 
Salary Scale
Rs. (53,175- 10 x 1,375 – 15x1,910 – Rs. 95,575/-) 
(in addition to the above salary Government approved 
other allowances will be paid) 
Age : Must be not less than 22 years and not more than 
45 years. the maximum age limit does not apply to internal 
applicants.
Other : applicants should be able to carry out the duties 
entrusted to the post efficiently and should be able to work 
any part of the island and should have a perfect physical and 
mental fitness as well as an excellent character. 
Qualifications must be fulfilled in every way on the 
closing date on which applications are received.  
Language reference to the above post : application 
should be referred in English Language. 
Recruitment Procedure : Will be recruited on the results 
of a written competitive examination and / or a structured 
interview decided by the recruitment authority
Nature of Appointment : this is a permanent post and 
entitle to Employees Provident fund and Employees trust 
fund. 
Application fee : an application fee of Rs.500/- to be 
paid by only external applicants to the name of “Chairman, 
National Dangerous Drugs Control Board” by a normal 
money order from any post office of the Island. The 
payment office should be mentioned as the “Rajagiriya 
Post Office”. the application fee will not be refunded. 
complete your application using both side of a4 paper as 
per the application format  published in www.nddcb.gov.lk 
.Please write the position applying for on the top left corner 
of the envelope. Send your application with the copies of 
relevant certificates by registered post to the Chairman, 
National Dangerous Drugs Control board, No. 383, 
kotte Road, Rajagiriya to reach on or before 13.11.2020. 
Employees employed in Government/ corporations or 
Statutory board should submit their application through the 
Head of the institution/ department. 
Incomplete Applications / Applications not attached 
money order/ application with any other formats 
and applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected. Decisions made by the board regarding 
recruitment will be the final. 
 chairman,
 National dangerous drugs control board.
No. 383, Kotte Road,
Rajagiriya.
23rd october, 2020
10–1183

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1728
Annexe 01
AMENDMENT
Education Services Committee of the Public Service Commission 
ministry of Education 
OPEN COMPETITIVE ExAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA TEACHER 
EdUcatoRS' SERVicE - 2019(2020)
"FOLLOWING Sections of the notice for calling applications for the Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to 
Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service - 2019(2020) published in the Gazette No. 2,162 dated 07.02.2020 of 
the Sri Lanka democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka will be amended as indicated below".
Closing date of application.– 06.11.2020.
No. of English medium vacancies for the subject Physics in Sub-section 25 of table 01 will be amended as 01.
4. i(iii) Date of eligibility.– the applicant will be considered as eligible to appear for the competitive examination 
to be recruited for the service, only if the applicant has completed in every aspect all qualification stated from para. 04 to 
para. 06 as at or before 06.03.2020.
Schedule I and II will be amended as the qualification assessment interview and the marking scheme of the practical 
test for the open recruitment to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service. 
1.3, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 of Schedule i and ii will be amended by removing the "*" mark indicated therein. 
all other conditions of this Gazette will remain unchanged. 
by order of the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission,
 Prof. K. Kapila C. K. perera, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
on 13th october, 2020.
10–1066
–––––––––––––––––––––
Annexe 01
AMENDMENT
Education Services Committee of the Public Service Commission 
ministry of Education 
LIMITED COMPETITIVE ExAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA 
tEacHER EdUcatoRS' SERVicE - 2019(2020)
“FOLLOWING Sections of the notice for calling applications for the Limited competitive Examination for the Recruitment 
to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka teacher Educators’ Service - 2019 (2020) published in the Gazette No. 2,162 dated 07.02.2020 
of the Sri Lanka Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka will be amended as indicated below.”
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2020'10'23
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.10.2020
1729
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Closing date of applications.- 06.11.2020.
04 I (ii)  should be an officer confirmed in a post of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Principals’ Service or the Sri Lanka teachers Service belonging to Public Service or Provincial Public 
Service or an officer confirmed as a Teacher of Pirivena.
04 I (iii)  As an officer of the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Principals’ Service or the 
Sri Lanka teachers Service belonging to Public Service or Provincial Public Service or as a teacher of 
Pirivena, should have achieved all increments on the prescribed date during the period of immediate 
five years and should not have undergone any disciplinary action during the period. (This immediate 
period of service may be a joint service period of two or more of above services)
04 i (vi) teachers of Pirivena may apply only for the subjects Sinhala, buddhism, History, aesthetics and 
information technology. (opportunity to apply for information technology will be restricted to this 
time only)
04 iii  Experience Should be an officer confirmed in the Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Principals’ Service or the Sri Lanka teachers Service belonging to Public Service or Provincial Public 
Service or an officer confirmed as a Teacher of Pirivena having completed an active and satisfactory 
period not less than 05 years and have fulfilled all qualifications stated in 04 I and 04 II of this notification 
as at or before the closing date of applications on 06.11.2020.
5. Should not exceed 50 years of age as at closing date of applications. accordingly, applicants having the date of 
birth on or later than 06.11.1970 are eligible to apply. (this age limit will be applicable only to this time) 1.3, 2.2, 2.5, 2.6, 
3.4, 3.5, 3.6 of Schedule i and ii will be amended by removing the "*" mark indicated therein.
all other conditions of this Gazette will remain unchanged.
by order of the Education Services committee of the Public Service commission,
 Prof. K. Kapila C. K. perera, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Education. 
on 13th october, 2020.
10–1067