

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1073
1073
wxl 1"865 - 2014 uehs 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'05'30
No. 1,865 – FRIDAY , MAY 30, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1076
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1078
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th June, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th June,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I:III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,864 of 23.05.2014 were not published.
Note.—  Ranjith Siyambalapitiya Friendship Foundation (Incorporation)  Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka of May 09, 2014.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1074
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1075
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1076
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Recruitment to the Post of Apprentice Surveyors in
Sri Lanka Survey Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
possessing the following qualifications to recruit for the Post of
Apprentice Surveyors in Sri Lanka Survey Department. Applications
prepared as per the specimen given below should be sent by registered
post to reach to "The Surveyor General, Surveyor General's Office,
No. 150, Kirula Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05" on or before
23.06.2014. The wording "Application for the Post of Apprentice
Surveyors" should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope containing the application. Applications sent through
other means except by post will be rejected.
02. All the applicants should ensure that the following
requirements have been fulfilled :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Should have excellent moral character and physically
sound.
(c) The age should not be less than 22 years and more than 33
years as at the closing date of application.
(d) Should have completed all the educational qualifications
as at the closing date of calling for application and
applications should not be forwarded expecting results.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned
to this post is as follows :
P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(iv) MN-5-2006A - Rs. 16,720
-10x320 - 11x365 - 15x450 - Rs. 30,685.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Selected candidates will be appointed to the Post of
Apprentice Surveyors in Sri Lanka Survey Department
subject to the general conditions governing the
appointments of the public service and to the conditions
sepcified in the Surveyors' Service Minute published in
the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1,434/5 dated 27.02.2006
of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and to the
amendments which have been made or may be made from
time to time to said Minute.
04. Conditions of Appointment :
(i) Officers who recruited should undergo initial training in
departmental matters.
(ii) They are bound to furnish security to the amount of
Rs. 25,000 for the government stores issued to them.
(iii) After completion of training period, they are subject to
serve as a Surveyor in Sri Lanka  Surveyors' service for a
period of 06 years in Survey Department and they are
required to enter into an agreement and a security bond
with a surety having assets worth not less than a sum of
Rs. 150,000, for that purpose.
(iv) Seniority of the selected officers will be decided on the
results of the written examination held after the initial
training given after the recruitment.
05. Educational Qualifications.– Should have obtained a Degree
in Surveying Science from a University or Institution recognized by
the University Grants Commission.
06. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the results of
an Interview. All the surveying science graduates, who have fulfilled
relevant qualifications, of the applicants, are called for an interview
and originals of the following documents and set of photocopies
should be produced at the interview :
(i) Certificate of Birth ;
(ii) Degree certificate and the other educational certificates ;
(iii) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or a valid Passport ;
(iv) Two character certificates - one of this should be from the
Grama Niladhari, of your area, counter-signed by the
Divisional Secretary concerned.
07. Applications which are not fulfilled the necessary conditions
and which are received after the due date will be rejected.
08. If any candidate is found not to have prescribed qualifications,
his/her appointment can be cancelled at any time.
09. Candidates already employed in the Public Service should
forward their applications through the Head of Department.
Complaints for any loss of application will be rejected.
10. Surveyor General has power to postpone to cancel this
recruitment and to determine the number of recruitment. If any
discrepancy found in this Gazette Notification in Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages, SInhala language terms stand.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
N
IHAL GUNAW ARDANE,
Surveyor General,
Sri Lanka Survey Department.
No. 150, Kirula Road,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05,
09th May, 2014.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1077
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
APPRENTICE SURVEYORS IN SRI LANKA SURVEY
DEPARTMENT
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals Eg.– SILV A, A. B.)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
1.5 Date of issue :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Postal Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Telephone No. :
Mobile :––––––––––––.
Residence :––––––––––––.
04. Citizenship :––––––––––––.
(Whether by descent or by registration, if by registration, give
registration No.)
05. Sex :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
06. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––.  Month :––––––––––.  Date :––––––––––.
7.1 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years :–––––––––.  Months :–––––––––. Days :––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i) University/Institution :––––––––––––.
(ii) Degree and Year of Graduation :––––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––––––.
(v) Index No. :––––––––––––.
(vi) Class (Upper/Lower) :––––––––––––.
(vii) Medium of Language in which you appeared for the exam :
––––––––––––.
09. Details of the courses in Computer Science followed :–––––––.
10. Proficiency in other languages in addition to the mother tongue
and examinations passed :––––––––––––.
11. Other Performances and Qualifications :––––––––––––.
12. If ever convicted of any criminal offence in a Court of Law, give
full particulars of it :––––––––––––.
13. If you are already in government service, state whether you had
been subjected to interdiction from service as at the date of
receiving applications :––––––––––––.
I do certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct.
I am aware that if any of the particulars furnished by me in this
application are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification for the selection and to dismissal from service.
Further, I declare that I agree to all the conditions specified in the
Gazette published in this regard.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
(This is applicable only to the candidates already employed in the
Public Service)
....................................
....................................
....................................
Surveyor General,
The particulars furnished by Mr./Mrs./Miss ...............................
who serves in this Institution is correct. He/She has not been subjected
to any disciplinary action and he/she can be/cannot be released from
the service if he/she is selected for the post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Frank)
Date :––––––––––––.
05–850

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1078
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FIRST  AND  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR
EXAMINATIONS  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  GRADE  III  OF
THE  SRI   LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’   SERVICE  - 2014
FIRST and Second Efficiency Bar Examinations for officers in Class
III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service will be held in September
2014  in Town 1 Colombo and Town 2 Jaffna by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. A change of the town indicated in the
application to appear for the examination will not be allowed later.
The closing date of applications for the Examination will be
30.06.2014 The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media and no candidate will be permitted to change the
medium later.
02. A specimen application form is given  at the end of this
notification. All applicants are advised to prepare their applications
as per specimen given. Application should be prepared only in A4
size paper and item 01 to 07 should be on page 1 and the rest on
page 2. The form should be completed by the applicant in his/her
own hand writing. Further, Name of the Examination should be
written in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and
in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications at the top of the
application. Applications which do not conform   with the specimen
application form and those received after the closing date of
applications and incomplete applications will be rejected without
notice. Those who wish to sit for both first and second efficiency
bar examinations should send two separate applications specifying
the examinations. Particulars given in the top of the specimen
application form as the case may be, should be mentioned
accurately. Further, Two receipts obtained by marking payments
for two examinations should be affixed to each application form
separately.
03. All applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (For e.g. Through Divisional Secretary in
the case of a Divisional Secretariat) by registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Palawatta,
Battaramulla, to reach him on or before 30.06.2014 The name of the
examination should be written on the top left corner of the envelop
containing the application . Retaining a copy of the application
would be useful. Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media and no candidate will be permitted to change the
language medium applied for. New officers for the purpose of official
language policy may prepare their applications in the official
language or in Tamil or English in accordance with the language
medium they were recruited.
04. An admission card together with a copy of the time table of
the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General of
Examination to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after admission cards are dispatched to the
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the Department of examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission card and time table 2 or 3 days
before the examination, he/she should notify this in writing
immediately to the Department of Examinations. The candidate
should communicate with the Department of Examinations
mentioning his / her Full name, Address, National Identity card
Number and the name of the Examination applied for by the
Candidate. In Case of the applicants outside Colombo, a letter
contains his / her details aforesaid with a Fax Number should be
faxed to the Department of Examination in order to send a copy of
the admission card via fax. It would be advisable to keep a photo
copy of the application form, by receipt obtained the making
payment of examination fee, at your possession in order to confirm
the above particulars.
05. Identify.– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a question
paper  in the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents only will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A V alid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves
the right to cancel or reject the candidature of the
candidate who fails to produce any of the documents
mentioned above.
06. Examination Fee.– Candidates who sit this examination will
be required to pay examination fees as mentioned  below.
Examination  Fee.
Rs. cts.
(a) First sitting- No fee will be charged for each
Efficiency Bar Examination
(b) For the whole examination for each subsequent 400 0
sitting
(c) Per subject 200 0
The  relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examination No
2003.02.13 at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful. Those who apply for both examinations
should affix two receipts obtained by making payments for both
examinations separately.
07. This examinations is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination and issue of results.   Rules and regulations published
in Part 1 Para  (IIA) of this Gazette for applicants for examinations
are applicable to this examination. On the first day of the

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1079
examination, admission card with the applicants authenticated
signature should be handed over to the supervisor of the
examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom admission cards have been issued by  the Commissioner
General of Examinations to enable them to sit for the examination.
Admission cards will be issued to all the applicants who have
submitted their  applications and issuing an admission card to an
applicant should not be considered by him / her as  a qualification
to sit for the examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
with the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
11. Syllabuses related to the first and second efficiency bar
examinations are given below.
Syllabus of the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
Officers in Grade  III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(a)  First Efficiency Bar Examination consists of 4 question
papers of 3 hours on the following subjects.
1. Government Financial Procedures (Sub No – 01) –
100 marks
2. Law and Management (Sub No – 02) –  100 marks
3. Administration (Sub No – 03) -  100 marks
4. Report writing and presenting
Information  to Management (Sub No – 04) -   100
marks
(b) The officers should pass the  Examination  within stipulated
period or before as per the provisions of the service minute
and the letter of appointment and they can sit all the subjects
on one occasion or separate occasions if they so desire.
(c) Applicants should score 40 marks for a pass in each paper.
Syllabus:
 1. Government Financial Regulations (Sub. No. 01)
Candidates will be tested on the application of Financial
Regulations and Treasury Circulars in government
transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate
to revenue, expenditure, foreign aid, annual and
supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders,
imprests and advances, financial sanctions, the state
account, functional and economic classifications,
programme and performance budgeting, functions of the
Minister of Finance, The General Treasury, the Ministry
of Finance and Planning, The Secretaries, the Auditor
General and the Public Accounts Committee.
2. Law and Management (Sub No. 02)
Law : Definition of Law
Legal system of Sri Lanka
Judicial system of Sri Lanka
Law of contract
Law of agency
Sale of goods
Hire purchase
Negotiable instruments
Guarantee of securities
Insurance
Management
Introduction to management
Functions and skills of managers
Planning process and setting organizational levels
Organizational structure
Human Resource management
Performance evaluation
Promotion
Motivation
Leadership
Communication
Decision making
Conflict resolution
Change Management / Conflicts management / Time
management
Quality cycle and Production and result
Management ethics and responsibilities
3. Administration (Sub No. 03) : Chapters of the
Establishments Code VII,   IX, XI, XII, XV , XXVI, XXVII,
XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,
XLVIII
Public Service Commission rules and procedure volume
I- VI
4. Report writing and presenting information to the
Management (Sub No. 04)
Importance of accuracy, of timeliness and perfection of
management information
Dealing with reference information
Periodic and ad-hoc reports
Writing minutes of meeting and notes
Structure of management reports
Important results that should be highlighted
Interpretation of results
Suggesting variations
Use of statistical name system in data analysis
Comparison of performance
Use of ratios and percentages in management reports

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1080
Diagrammatic representation
Listening to professional talks and lectures
Reporting lectures through speech
Panel discussions
Seminar abilities
Delivering a speech
Syllabus of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the
Officers of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(a) The second efficiency bar examination consists of the
following subjects.
(1) Management Accountancy  (Sub No. 05) - 100 marks
(2) Public Financial Management (Sub No. 06) - 100
marks
 (3) Management and Organization (Sub No. 07) - 100
marks
(b) The officers should pass the  Examination  within stipulated
period or before as per the provisions of the service minute
and the letter of appointment and they can sit all the subjects
on one occasion or separate occasions if they so desire.
(c) Applicants  are required to obtain 40% of marks for
each paper.
Syllabus:
1. Management Accountancy (Sub. No. - 05) – 3 hours
paper Answering all the questions is compulsory.
(Applicants are not allowed to select questions)
Control theory on accounting – feed back – open and
closed, Primary and applied primes, Types of ideal
standard costs, principles of performance standards and
their application, revision of standards, learning cycle
and determination of motivation, analysis of variations
and sub variations, analysis of significance,
presentation behavioral aspects of control accounting,
concepts of budgeting, administration of budgetary
control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets,
master and supplementary budgets, budget centres,
management participation, intervention and motivation
in the preparation of budgets, the budget period and
identification of the principle budget factor.
2. Public Finance Management –  (Sub. No. 06) - 03 hours
paper
Answering all the questions is compulsory.
            (Applicants are not allowed to select questions)
            Role of the Government Accountant.
The Constitutional and Legal Framework of Public
Finance, Establishment Framework, Central Government,
State Coperations, Local Government Institutions,
Cooperative Movement etc..
Governance of the Parliament, Duties of the General
Treasury, The issues related to the control exercised by
the Ministry of Finance & Planning, Estimate Committee,
Auditor General, State Finance Committee, Consolidated
Fund and the Parliament.
Financial cycle, Compilation of Planning Programmes,
Compilation of Budgetary Documents, Approval of
Funds, Accounting Activities, Reporting, Evaluation and
Auditing.
Project Appraisal, Utilisation of Service Quotations and
Statistical  Data Determination of the theory of Payment
and Expected value.  Cost Benefit Analysis, Discounted
Cash Flows, Internal Rate of Return, Feasibility of
Projects, Economics, Financial and Management Aspects
of Project  Compilation and Appraisal, Successful
Submission of Projects.
Techniques of compiling programmes, Use of Network
Analysing Methods, Allocation of Resources, Issues
Related to Transportation, Replacement of assets in lieu
of the assets which are worn out as a result of use or with
the time and the assets which do not thus wear out but
become dormant with the time or after being used for a
certain period of time, Performance Budget, Establishment
and Utilisation of Fundamental Methods, Evaluation of
Performance, Determination of Criteria, Units and Norms,
Analysis of Criteria and Performance.
Programme Budget, Programme Structure, Classification
according to Functions, Programme activities, Expenditure
Projects, Expenditure codes, Economic and Functional
Classification.
Financial Control Systems, level of Responsibilities,
Internal Control and Financial Regulations. Internal
Auditing, Efficiency Auditing, Management Auditing,
Variable Analysis, Decision of compiling capital Budget.
Long term Planning and its importance, Forecasting,
Accuracy and Limitations, Risk Analysis, Decision trees,
Probability Factors.
Demand on Capital, Issues Related to Capital Efficiency
and Income estimation, Consideration of risk Factors in
Evaluation of Project Priorities, Payback Determinants,
Calculating Rate or Return, Net Present Value and DCF
Yields, Impact of Taxation. Investment Appraisal, Project
Cost Control  and Post Audit.
Decision on Capacities, Product Mix, Production or
Purchase, Alternative  Methods of Manufacture, Issues
related to closing of Factories, Pricing Policies and Theory
of Contribution, Impact of Customer Demand, Demand
Flexibility, Marketing Strategy, Techniques of
Performance Evaluation, Determinants and Ratios of
Profitability.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1081
Cost Benefit Analysis, Management of Working Capital.
Finance Control of Government Commercial Enterprises,
Budgeting, Management Reporting, Interpretation of
Financial Statement and the use of Financial Ratios.
Pricing in Public Enterprises.
Accounting plan and its contents, Government  Reports
and Public Enterprises.
3. Management and Organization – (Sub. No. 07) 03 hour
paper
Answering all the questions is compulsory. (Applicants
are not allowed to  select questions)
Questions will be set to test the Candidate’s knowledge
on management and principles of organization, use of
these principles with regard to the problems and issues
and problems in the Public Sector and the knowledge on
new management strategies and techniques.
P.B. J
AYASUNDERA,
Secretary,
 Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
30th day of May, 2014.
Model Application Form
 (For office use)
FIRST AND  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR EXAMINATION
FOR  OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF THE SRI  LANKA
ACCOUNTANTS’ SERVICE– 2014
Should be forwarded to the Commissioner General of
Examinations through the Head of the Department by  registered
post.
                                                             Town Town No.
* Town applied to sit for the
Examination and its Number
(Write the name of the Town in Block letters according to the
para  01 of the gazette)
* Medium of the Examination Applied
(Medium applied will not   be allowed
to change   subsequently)
Sinhalese -  2
Tamil -  3
English -  4
    (Put the relevant number in the cage)
* The Efficiency Bar Examination Applied
First      - 1
      Second - 2 Efficiency Bar Examination Applied :
(Put the relevant  number in the cage )
(Refer the para 2 of the gazette. Applications should be submitted
separately for the two  examinations.)
1. Name :
1.1 Name with initials at the End :–––––––––––.
(In English Block letters e.g. SUNIL, A.B)
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
 1.3 National Identity Card  No. :
1.4 Telephone Number :
2. Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block letters)
2.1 Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be sent :
–––––––––––.
 (In English Block letters)
3. 3.1 Sex: Male      - 0
Female   - 1
 (Put the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.  Subjects offered under the Para 10 of the gazette (only  4 (i) or
4 (ii) relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examination Applied should
be completed in one application form)
4 (i) First Efficiency Bar :
Subject Subject No.
………………………………….
…………………………………
…………………………………
..………………………………..

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2014
1082
4 (ii) Second Efficiency Bar :
Subject Subject No.
………………………………….
…………………………………
…………………………………
5. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service :––––––––––––.
             (Date of assuming duties permanently should be mentioned)
6. Name of the work place (if it is a Divisional Secretariat, Name
of the said office) :––––––––––––.
7.   Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time :
––––––––––––.
8. If not, examination fees paid :
(i) Office, paid :––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––––.
         Affix the receipt securely.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with candidate)
9. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and
that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language
medium indicated above. Further, I agree to abide by the
decisions taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the examination.
 –––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the
Department, or officer authorized to sign on his / her
behalf or his / her Provincial Head.
Attention of Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss……………… who is an
officer working in my office  is known to me personally placed his/
her signature before me on ………………………
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
 I Certify that
(i) The foregoing particulars were checked  and found  correct
and
(ii) The applicant is eligible to sit for this examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official frank should be placed)
Designation :––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––.
05–799
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.