

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2045
2045
wxl 1"737 - 2011 foieïn¾ 16 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'12'16
No. 1,737 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 16, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2048
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2053
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd December, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th
December, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I(IIA) of the Gazette No. 1,736 of 09.12.2011 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2046
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2047
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2048
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages
AMPARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 17th January, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3,
Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
22nd November, 2011.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division applications are called applications should be sent
Ampara Pothuwil Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
  Kandyan)  of Pothuwil Division   General, District Secretariat Ampara
12–506
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called for in terms of Muslim Marriage
and Divorce Act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the areas indicated in the Schedule hereto
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply –
Any Muslim male who is a graduate of a recognized university
or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized by
the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs or
a holder of a Al-Alim certificate issued by the Department of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar
professional qualifications or a retired public servant who has held
office in staff grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the Public Service
shall not be eligible to apply. Applicants should be marreid persons
over 40 years of age and of good character and standing in the
community and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating
to Muslim Marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2049
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all
inclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of support
services, stationary and postal expenses.
Application forms can be obtained from the Judicial Service
Commission Secretariat and should be sent by registered post to
reach the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission on or before 31st
January, 2012. The envelope containing the application should be
market - Post of Quazi" on its top left hand corner.
S
UDATH N. GOPALLAWA,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Hulftsdrop Street,
Colombo 12,
02nd December, 2011.
SCHEDULE
01. Puttalam and Chilaw : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial
zone of the Puttalam and chilaw (except
the D. S.'s Division of Kalpitiya) in
Puttalam District.
02. Kalpitiya : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the D. S.'s
Division of Kalpitiya in Puttalam
District.
03. Biyagama : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the D. S.'s
Divisions of Biyagama, Dompe,
Kelaniya and Wattala in Gampaha
District.
04. Harispattuwa and : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Pujapitiya Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the D. S.'s
Division of Harispattuwa and
Pujapitiya in Kandy District.
05. Tangalle : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial
zone of Tangalle.
06. Jaffna : Applications are invited by the Judicial
Service Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the
Division of Jaffna, Point pedro and
Kyts in Jaffna District.
07. Gampola : Applications are invited by the Judicial
(Udapalatha) S ervice Commission under the Muslim
Marriages and Divorce Act (Chapter
115) for the post of Quazi in the Judicial
Division of Gampola (Udapalatha).
12–673
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Calling Applications for the Appointment of Inquirers
(into Sudden Deaths) under Section 108 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979
APPLICATIONS were called for the above post by the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,  No. 1,725 dated
Friday, 23rd September, 2011 (23.09.2011). The 02nd paragraph
of the said notification is amended as follows :
The words in Section 02 of the said notification i. e. "the closing
date of applications - 25.10.2011" is amended as "the closing date
of applications on or before 27.12.2011".
W. K. F. 
DE SILV A,
For Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12,
23rd November, 2011.
12–507
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Posts of Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the
Labour Tribunals
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with
the undermentioned qualifications for the recruitment to the Posts
of Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the Officers of the Labour
Tribunals of the Ministry of Justice.
01. Educational qualifications :–
(a) Should have passed six (06) subjects at the General
Certificates of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination in
one sitting with at least four credits (04) including
Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil/English Languages.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2050
(b) Should have passed at least one (01) subject (excluding
General Common Test) at the General Certificates of
Education (Advanced Level) Examination.
02. Professional Qualifications :–
Should have followed a course on Stenography not less than
six (06) months in a recognized institute ;  or
Should have obtained a credit pass for Typewriting and
Shorthand at the General Certificates of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination.
03. Physical Fitness :
1. Should be of sound mental and physical health to serve
in any part of the Island.
2. Should be of sound physical fitness to perform the duties
in the post.
04. Other :–
1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Should bear an excellent moral character ;
3. Should attach the photocopies of the certificates with
the application.
05. Age limit.– Applicant should not be less than 18 years of age
and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date of
application. (The maximum age limit for the stenographers already
serving in the Labour Tribunals on contract and casual basis should
be 40 years).
06. Salary Scale. – MN1-2006A Monthly salary Rs. 13,120 -
10x145 - 11x170 - 10x240 -10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
07. Method of recruitment. – The qualified applicants will be
recruited in order of the merit at the practical test and the structural
interview conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice or
any other institute authorized by the Secretary to the Ministry of
Justice. The appointments will be made on the number of available
existing vacancies.
08. Terms of Engagaement :–
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contribution to
the Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme should be made.
(b) The Efficiency Bar for this post will be conducted two
times per year by the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
09. The application should be prepared as per the specimen
form setout at the end of this notification. The duly completed
application should be sent under Registered cover to the following
address on or before 06.01.2012. The words "Post of Stenographer
(Sinhala/Tamil/English) in the Labour Tribunals" should be written
on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
The applicants already in the Public Service/Provincial Public
Service should send in their applications through the Head of the
Department/Institution he/she is attached to.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
10. Examination fee .– Every applicant should pay Rs. 300 as
examination fee to the credit of the Account No. 176-1-001-9-
9025-184, Mid City Branch of the People's Bank in favour of the
Secretary to the Ministry of Justice. The receipt received for the
payment should be affixed to the application. The examination fee
is not refundable.
11. The applications should be completed in all respect.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected. No
allegation that an application and attached documents have been
lost or delayed in the post can be considered.
12. If any particulars furnished in the application are found to
be false or incorrect he/she is liable to be disqualified before selection
and to be dismissed if the inaccuracy is discovered after the
appointment.
13. The authority to determine any matter not provided for in
this notice is vested in the Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
K
AMALIN DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Ministry of Justice,
Colombo 12.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
POST OF STENOGRAPHER (SINHALA/TAMIL/ENGLISH) IN THE LABOUR
TRIBUNALS
No. : .......................
(For office use only)
01. Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil/English)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil/English)
03. Private address (in Sinhala/Tamil/English) :–––––––––––.
04. Official address :–––––––––––.
05. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
08. Age as at 06.01.2012 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. Sex :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2051
10. Nationality :–––––––––––.
11. Medium of Language :–––––––––––.
12. Whether applied for the post of Stenographer (Sinhala/Tamil/
English) :–––––––––––.
13. Educational qualifications :
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––,  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––,  Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
14. Professional qualifications :–––––––––––.
15. Experience :–––––––––––.
16. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
17. I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect. I
am liable to be disqualified before selection and to be dismissed
without any compensation if the inaccuracy is discovered after
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEP ARTMENT
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................ serving
in this Department/Institution is attached herewith. I inform that if
this officer is selected for the post of Stenographer, he/she can/
cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Official Seal.
Date :–––––––––––.
12–481
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES
National Council for Elders
APPLICATIONS ARE INVITED FROM SRI LANKAN
CITIZENS FOR THE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT
III GRADE POSTS IN THE NATIONAL COUNCIL
FOR ELDERS
Job No. of Vacancies
Management Assistant III Grade   - 06
Requirement :
1. Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Terms and conditions of employment :–
This post is permanent, non-pensionable and officers
shall contribute to the Employees' Provident Fund.
The appointment will be subject to a 03 year probation
period.
The provisions of Section 10-12, Chapter (II) of the
Establishment Code and regulations relevant to the
National Council for Elders will apply.
3. (i) Salary Code and Salary Scale :
MA 1.1-2006A Rs. 13,450 -10x145-7x170-4x240-
20x320 - Rs. 23,450.
(ii) Qualification and Experiences :
(a) Educational qualification :
Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
in not more than two sittings in with 06 subjects,
including 4 credit passes in Sinhala languages/
Tamil or Literature and Mathematics. 5 passes
should have been obtained at the first sitting ;
with
Pass 3 subjects in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
(b) Any other Qualification :
Typing, Stenography and use of computer
knowledge will be considered as additional
qualification.
(iii) Age.– Applicants should not be below 18 years of
age and not more than 45 years.
4. Method of Recruitment.– Applications will be short listed on
conditions of eligibility and will be called for a structural interview.
Selection will be done on the results of the interview and use of
Computer knowledge and Typing.
5. Method of application. – Candidates are required to prepare
applications in conformity with the specimen form given below.
Duly completed applications should be sent under registered cover
to the "Director, National Council for Elders, National Secretariat
for Elders" No. 150A, L. H. P . Building, Nawala Road, Nugegoda to
reach on or before 31.12.2011. The name of the vacancy you apply
must be stated on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Applications from applicants who are already in the Public Service
must be forwarded through the Head of the Department and must

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2052
be accompanied by a certificate stating that the officer can be released
if selected.
Receipt of Applications will not be acknowledged. Late
applications and incomplete applications without necessary
qualifications will be rejected without any notification. The Director
reserves the right of deciding matters with regard to recruitment
and filling or not filling the total number of vacancies.
J. K
RISHNAMOORTHY,
Secretary,
National Council for Elders.
For office use only
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SERVICES
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR ELDERS
Management Assistant III Grade Job Vacancy
1. Name with initials (Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss.) :––––––––––.
2. Name in full :––––––––––.
3. Permanent address :––––––––––.
4. Telephone No. :
Permanent :––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––.
5. National Identity Card No. :
6. Gender (Male/Female) :––––––––––.
7. (i) Date of birth :
Year :––––––––, Month :––––––––. Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age (as at 31.12.2011) :
Years :––––––––, Month :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
8. Nationality :––––––––––.
9. Civil status :  Single/Married :––––––––––.
10. Education qualification :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L)
1st Sitting 2nd Sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ............... ................. 1. ............... .................
2. ............... ................. 2. ............... .................
3. ............... ................. 3. ............... .................
4. ............... ................. 4. ............... .................
5. ............... ................. 5. ............... .................
6. ............... ................. 6. ............... .................
7. ............... ................. 7. ............... .................
8. ............... ................. 8. ............... .................
9. ............... ................. 9. ............... .................
10. ............... ................. 10. ............... .................
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) :
Subject Grade
1. .................................. .............................
2. .................................. .............................
3. .................................. .............................
4. .................................. .............................
11. Other relevant educational (Post Graduate/Diploma) if :––––.
12. V ocational qualifications :––––––––––.
13. Language proficiency Mark ( 3) in the relevant cage :
Very good Good Fair Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
14.Experience :––––––––––.
Declaration of the candidate
I ................. hereby declare that the information furnished above
are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
I further declare that I have not been dismissed from the public
services or retired from the service due to inefficiency as an option
and not been considered as a person who has vacated the post.
I am liable to be dismissed from service if it is revaled that I am
not eligible after selection to the post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
If the candidate in the Public Service the
recommendation of the Head of the Department
Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... is a permanent/temporary/
casual .......................... in this Ministry/Department and he/she
can/cannot be released if selected.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department.
Designation :––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
12–540

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2053
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
PROMOTION  TO  SUPRA  GRADE  OF  GRAMA
NILADHARI  SERVICE – 2011
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from Grama Niladharies, who
are belonging to Grama Niladhari Service and have possessed
qualifications prescribed in section 4, for promotion to Supra Grade
of service on the result of limited competitive examination. The list
containing the examination centers and the numbers is attached
herewith as schedule No. 1 whilst the list of district numbers is
attached as schedule No.2 at the end of this notification.
01. Method of Promotion :
(i) Appointments shall be made by the Public Service
Commission to a number of vacancies, which does not
exceed 40% of the existing vacancies, by way of verifying
the qualifications of candidates who have become qualified
at the examination conducted by the commissioner General
of Examinations on behalf of the Public Service
Commission, by an interview board consisting of three
members appointed by the Commission. However, the
interview shall be confined only to verify the qualifications.
(ii)  When the officers appointed to Supra grade are attached
to the service stations, the existing officers shall be granted
opportunity to be transferred to the existing vacancies at
first. When making appointments to 40% of vacancies
remaining within the district after making above transfers,
candidates shall be appointed to a division within the
district other than the division where the candidate is
serving based on the seniority secured at the examination.
At the instances where the number of candidates who
have satisfied qualifications is higher than the number of
vacancies existing within the district, such candidates shall
be attached to the vacancies outside the district. Those
who are attached to such service stations do not accept
the appointments, their appointments shall be cancelled
and further they shall not have any right  at later occasions
to make a request for an appointment  based on the result
of this examination.
02. Scheme of Examination.– Candidates shall sit the following
examination and the examination shall be conducted only in Sinhala,
Tamil and English mediums. Once such language medium is selected,
candidates are not allowed to change the language medium.
(i) Office Management and Office Systems – 1 ½ hours, 100
marks
(ii) Establishment activities, procedural rules of Public Service
Commission  and Public Finance Management -  1 ½ hours,
100 marks
(iii) Subject related studies and professional knowledge - 1 ½
hours, 100 marks
(iv) General paper - 1 ½ hours, 100 marks
(v) Candidates shall secure minimum of 40% of marks for
each paper in order to possess minimum qualifications at
the examination.
03. Syllabus :
(i) Office Management  and Office Systems
(a) Office Management :
A question paper consisting questions on organization
structure, principles of organization, task analysis
and task evaluation, leadership, supervision and
decision making ability, communication, public
relations, coordination and problem solving.
Candidates are required to answer all questions.
(b) Office systems :
A question paper which includes questions covering
the sections such as principles on office systems,
office procedures, documents and filing, planning and
handling of forms, office correspondents, control over
the utilization of office equipment, office layout and
environment, job description, work and systems
study, measurement of work and preparation of work
steps. Candidates are required to answer all questions.
(ii)  Establishment activities, procedural rules of Public Service
Commission and Public Finance Management.
(a) Establishment activities and procedural rules of Public
Service Commission  :
It is expected to test the general knowledge of the
candidate on procedures to be followed when making
recruitments to public service, establishment activities
of public officers, vesting of powers for the tasks
such as appointments, transfers, promotions and
termination of service of public servants, disciplinary
and welfare of public servants, privileges entitled to
public officers and the regulations, procedures and
circulars which have been already issued and are to be
issued in future by government and Public Service
Commission on establishment activities. Candidates
are required to answer all questions.
(b) Public Finance management :
It is expected to test the general knowledge of the
candidate on the responsibilities of an accounting
officer and annual estimates, cash control, vesting of
responsibilities on financial matters, receiving,
accounting, acceptance of money, payments, custody
of public money, imprest and bank account, supplies
and services, tender activities, board of surveys, audit
queries, ledgers and summaries of income and
expenditure of government offices, bank
reconciliations, books on financial control, regulations

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2054
and circulars issued so far by the government.
Candidates are required to answer all questions.
(iii) Subject related studies and professional knowledge
It is expected to test the knowledge of the candidate on
the subjects entrusted to Grama Niladharies by various
Acts and Ordinances, Ministries, Departments, Provincial
Councils and other government statutory institutions.
Further, a case study is also included relevant to the subjects
entrusted to Grama Niladharies. Candidates are required
to answer all questions.
(iv) General paper :
It is expected to test the general knowledge of the candidate
on the nature of public administration, structure of public
administration, public policies and new public reforms,
fundamental rights, human rights, Human Rights
Commission, Ombudsman, Public Petition Committee of
the Parliament, office culture, ethics and morals, making
the office environment properly, welfare activities of the
staff, recognition of civil and official status in the aspect
of Social Science and the duties of public officers towards
recipients. Candidates are required to answer all questions.
04. Qualifications .– Candidates shall have possessed the
following qualifications as at the closing date of application.
(i) Shall have earned salary increments within the five years
immediately preceding the prescribed date and completed
a satisfactory service period and passed the prescribed
efficiency bar examination and
(ii) Shall be an officer in Grade II of Grama Niladhari Service
who has completed at least an active service of not less
than eight years in Grade II or shall be an officer in Grade
I or
(iii) Shall be a graduate who have possessed at least a service
of not less than five years in Grade II of Grama Niladhari
Service.
Note.– When calculating the service period  mentioned in
above i, ii and iii, the service beyond 10 years from the
total period of service of Grama Niladharies appointed
to Grade II of Grama Niladhari Service before
01.01.2006 including the service period mentioned in
Section 12.2.3 of the new Grama Niladhari recruitment
procedure shall be taken into consideration as a period
of service in Grade II.
Section 12.2.3: The previous service included into Grama
Niladhari Service under the existed provisions of the
officers who have been absorbed into a post of Grama
Niladhari from the service category of Special Service
Officer or Cultivation Officer or Agriculture Extension
Officer and remaining in service by the effective date
of this Scheme of Recruitment, and further the period
of absence of the officers whose service has been
terminated in 1977 and reinstated in 1995 as per the
Cabinet decision No. CP/97/0419/05/016 shall be taken
into consideration as a period of service in Grama
Niladhari Service under this Scheme of Recruitment.
05. Salary scheme :
(i) Salary scale for Supra Grade is as follows:
Rs.20,030-11x365-18x500- Rs. 33,045. (Initial salary step-
Rs. 20,395)
(ii) The officers promoted shall be placed on the salary step
of this salary scale in consistent to the revisions made to
section 5, chapter vii of Establishment code by Public
Administration circular No. 7/2000.
06. Method of Application :
• A specimen of the application for this examination is
published at the end of this notification. The candidates
shall prepare their applications strictly in accordance with
the specimen. The application shall be prepared in A4
size papers using both sides and indicating numbers from
01 to 05 in the first page and the remaining numbers in the
rest of the pages. Applications can be type written, but
they should be filled by the candidate him/herself clearly
in his/her own handwriting following the instructions given
in this notification.
• When the application is prepared the name of the
examination shall be mentioned in Tamil language in
applications in Sinhala medium and in the meantime in
English language in applications in Tamil medium.
• Application shall be perfected in duplicate. The copy of
the application shall be sent to the Divisional Secretary to
be filed in the personal file whist the original shall be sent
to the Commissioner General of Examinations.
• All candidates shall send their applications by registered
post to reach the “Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla”
through the Divisional Secretary to whom the division
where he/ she serves belongs, on or before 13.01.2012.
• The top left hand corner of the envelop containing the
application should bear, “Limited competitive examination
for promotion to Supra Grade of Grama Niladhari service-
2011”. The applications received after the closing date of
application shall be rejected.
• Any document or a copy of such document shall not be
attached to the application. However, candidates shall
keep such documents required to prove his/ her
qualifications in order to provide whenever requested.
07. Examination Fee. – The examination fee is Rs. 400.
Examination fee should be paid at any District or Divisional
Secretariat island-wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13
of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2055
thus should be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form.
It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
The receipt shall have been issued strictly in favour of the candidate.
08. Admission to the examination :
• Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards in respect of each candidate who has
submitted application informing the date of the
examination to be held. Candidates appearing for the
examination should render their admission card to the
supervisor of the examination hall. Without such admission
card, no candidate shall be allowed neither to enter the
examination hall nor sit for the examination.
• Candidates shall render to the supervisor of the examination
hall, the admission card containing the certification of his
signature, on the first day of presenting himself for the
examination.
• All the candidates shall have knowledge of the rules and
regulations of the examination published in the Government
Gazette Notification and they shall be bound to follow
such rules and regulations.
• The Head of the Department shall grant duty leave for the
candidates who possess the admission cards issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations enabling them to
sit for the examination.
• Identity cards.– Candidates will be required to prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the
examination hall for all the subjects they offer.  For this
purpose, any of the following will be accepted.
 Identity card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
 A valid pass port.
09. (i) Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards in respect of each candidate whose
application for has been accepted. A notification  will
be published in newspapers by the Department
Examinations as soon as the admission cards are issued
to the candidates. If the admission card is not received
even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Sri Lanka Department
of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department
of Examinations: i.e. certified photocopies of the
application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and, in case of
applicants outside Colombo, letter of request
furnishing a  fax number to which the admission card
should be sent.
(ii) Candidates shall render to the supervisor of the
examination hall, the admission card containing the
certification of his signature, on the first day of
presenting himself for the examination.
(iii) Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that his/her qualifications for
appearing for the examination have been accepted.
10. All candidates are bound to comply with the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination.
This notification is issued as per the order of the Public Service
Commission.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
  Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
01st December, 2011.
(For office use only)
Specimen Form of Application
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
PROMOTION TO SUPRA GRADE OF GRAMA
NILADHARI SERVICE-2011
(From No. 1 – 5 shall be on the first page and from No. 6 onwards
shall be on the rest of pages)
Medium of Examination:
(Indicate the relevant
number in the cage) District where the District
Sinhala -     2 candidate serves Number
Tamil -     3
English -     4
Town in which you wish to sit Town No.
for the examination
P
ART 1
(N. B: The application shall be filled clearly by the candidate in his/
her handwriting)
01. (i) ( a) Name with initials (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
 (b) Name with initials (In English Block Capitals) :
––––––––––––.
(With initials at the end, eg: SILV A, M.A.)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2056
02. (i) Office Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Address to which the admission shall be sent :––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
03. (i) Divisional Secretary’s Division :–––––––––––.
     (ii) Grama Niladhari Division and Number :–––––––––––.
04. (i) Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
(ii) Date of Birth:-
Year :––––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date:–––––––––.
(iii) National Identity Card No:
05. (i) Date of appointment/ absorption to the post holding at
present and reference number and date of the letter :–––––.
(ii) T otal Period of service:
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
(iii) Present Grade :–––––––––––.
Period of service in that Grade :–––––––––––.
Years :––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days:–––––––––.
06. If the candidate has been absorbed to Grama Niladhari Service,
indicate following particulars:
(Fill the relevant paragraph only)
(i) Date of entry to the service of Special Service Officer  (Period
of service) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of entry to the Cultivation Officers’ Service (Period of
service) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of entry to the Agriculture Extension Service (Period
of service) :–––––––––.
(iv) Date of entry to any other similar service :–––––––––––.
(Period of service)
07. Are you an old or new entrant for the purpose of Official
language Policy :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Have you earned all the salary increments during the period
of service :–––––––––––.
(ii) If not state the details :–––––––––––.
09. If you have been released at present for the service at a
cooperation or another service, state the particulars :––––––.
10. If you have obtained no-pay leave for a foreign employment
or for any other purpose, state the particulars :––––––––––.
11. Have any disciplinary actions being taken against you? If so,
state the details :–––––––––––.
N.B.– The receipt of the examination fee obtained from the Divisional
Secretariat in favour of the applicant shall be affixed here
firmly so as not to be detached.
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and correct. I
am also aware that if any particular contained herein is found to be
false or incorrect, I am liable to dispossessed of my rights for the
promotion to Supra Grade of this service and further, I am liable to
be subjected to disciplinary action. Further, I state that I have no
objection for such action and I also agree to be bound by the orders
of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
  ––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
P
ART II
TO BE FILLED BY THE DIVISIONAL SECRETARY
I hereby certify that,
(i) The particulars provided above by Mr/Mrs/Miss
....................have been checked with his/ her personal file
and found to be true and correct.
(ii) The prescribed examination fee has been paid and the
receipt is affixed.
(iii) There is no intension to take any disciplinary action
against the officer.
(iv) His/ her service has been satisfactory during the
immediately proceeding five years and he/ she has been
appointed to Grade ...............of Grama Niladhari service
from ....................and a copy of the application submitted
herewith is filed in the officer’s personal file.
––––––––––––,
Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Delete inapplicable words)
S
CHEDULE – NO. 01
EXAMINATION CENTERS
This examination shall be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mulathivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Rathnapura and Kilinochchi for officers in
Grade II of Grama Niladhari Service. The relevant section of the
application shall be filled in accordance with the table containing
the towns and town numbers. It is not allowed to change the town/
towns applied at later occasions.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2057
Town Town Number
Colombo 001
Kandy 002
Galle 003
Matara 004
Jaffna 005
Mannar 006
Mulathivu 007
Trincomalee 008
Batticaloa 009
Kurunegala 010
Anuradhapura 011
Badulla 012
Rathnapura 013
Kilinochchi 014
If any center mentioned above does not have a sufficient number
of candidates such center shall be cancelled and the relevant
candidates shall be directed to one of the nearest centers.
S
CHEDULE – NO. 02
LIST OF DISTRICT NUMBERS
Index District District Number
No.
1 Colombo 001
2 Gampaha 002
3 Kalutara 003
4 Kandy 004
5 Matale 005
6 Galle 006
7 Matara 007
8 Hambanthota 008
9 Kurunegala 009
10 Puttalam 010
11 Nuwara eliya 011
12 Rathnapura 012
13 Badulla 013
14 Monaragala 014
15 Kegalle 015
16 Anuradhapura 016
17 Polonnaruwa 017
18 Ampara 018
19 Batticaloa 019
20 Trincomalee 020
21 Jaffna 021
22 V auniya 022
23 Mannar 023
24 Kilinochchi 024
25 Mulathiwu 025
12–645/1
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  TO  SUPRA
GRADE  OF  GRAMA  NILADHARI  SERVICE  ON
MERIT-2011
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from Grama Niladharies, who
are belonging to Grama Niladhari Service and have possessed
qualifications prescribed in Section 5, for promotion to Supra Grade
of service on merit. The list containing the examination centers and
the numbers is attached herewith as Schedule No. 1 whilst the list
of district numbers is attached as Schedule No.2 at the end of this
notification.
Conditions of Promotion : Candidates who possess highest
qualifications according to the aggregate of marks calculated based
on the marks secured at the examination, their seniority and
experience, shall be promoted to 60% of the existing vacancies.
02. Method of Promotion :
(i) An examination shall be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations on behalf of the Public Service
Commission for the candidates. Accordingly, priority shall
be determined on the order of the aggregate of marks
secured by candidates on the results of the examination
and the marks allocated by the interview board consisting
of three members appointed by the Public Service
Commission.
(ii) When the officers appointed to Supra Grade are attached
to the service stations, the existing officers shall be granted
opportunity to be transferred to the existing vacancies at
first. When making appointments to 40% of vacancies
remaining within the district after making above transfers,
candidates shall be appointed to a Divisional Secretary’s
Division within the district other than the division where
the candidate is serving based on the seniority secured at
the examination. At the instances where the number of
candidates who have satisfied qualifications is higher than
the number of vacancies existing within the district, such
candidates shall be attached to the vacancies outside the
district. Those who are attached to such service stations
do not accept the appointments, their appointments shall
be cancelled and further they shall not have any right  at
later occasions to make a request for an appointment
based on the result of this examination.
(iii) The examination shall be conducted only in Sinhala, Tamil
and English mediums. Once such language medium is
selected, candidates are not allowed to change the language
medium.
03.  (i) Scheme of Examination. – Candidates shall sit for the
subject “Aptitude and Subject Related Study”. The
duration of the question paper shall be 1 ½ hours and
candidates are required to secure at least 40 out of the
100 marks to be qualified at the examination.
(ii) Syllabus :
* Aptitude – It is expected to test the general
knowledge required in the performance of functions

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2058
connected to official duties entrusted to Grama
Niladharies, office administration, decision making
ability, critical reasoning.
* Subject related study.– Candidates are required to
answer the questions on office administration and
subject related study connected to the subjects
entrusted to Grama Niladharies. The question
paper shall be consisted of one or several
paragraphs and questions based on that.
04. Fields for which marks shall be allocated in determining
seniority and merit.
(i) Seniority (Maximum marks 60)
04 marks for each period of satisfactory service of
one year beyond the 05 year service in Grade I (02
marks for a period between 6 – 12 months. However,
no marks shall be allocated for a period less than 6
months)
(ii) Experience (Maximum marks 40)
(ii –i) Commendations received after being appointed
by to Grade I (Maximum marks 20)
04 marks for each certificate of commendation
made as per Form General 230B.
 02 marks for each commendation made by a
certificate other than Form General 230B.
(ii – ii) For achievements at the management Competition
among Gr ama Niladhari offices (Maximum
marks 20)
* All island first place- 15 marks
* All island second place - 12 marks
* All island third place - 10 marks
* First place at district competition - 08 marks
* Second  place at district competition - 06 marks
* Third place at district competition - 04 marks
* First place at the competition within Divisional
Secretary’s Division- 03 marks
* Second place at the competition within
Divisional Secretary’s Division – 02 marks
* Third place at the competition within Divisional
Secretary’s Division – 01 mark
(Marks shall strictly be allocated for the highest
achievement out of the achievements made at each
level in a year.)
05. Qualifications .– Candidates shall have possessed the
following qualifications as at the closing date of application.
(i) Shall have completed an active and satisfactory service
of five years in Grade I of Grama Niladhari Service and
passed the prescribed efficiency bar examination.
(ii) Shall have earned the salary increments falling within the
five years immediately proceeding the closing date of
applications.
06. Salary Scheme :
(i) Salary scale for Supra Grade is as follows:
Rs. 20,030-11x365-18x500-33,045. (Initial salary step-
Rs. 20,395)
(ii) The officers promoted shall be placed on the salary step
of this salary scale in consistent to the revisions made to
Section 5, Chapter VII of Establishment Code by Public
Administration Circular No. 7/2000.
07. Method of application :
(i) A specimen of the application for this examination is
published at the end of this notification. When the
application is prepared the name of the examination shall
be mentioned in Tamil language in applications in Sinhala
medium and in the meantime in English language in
applications in Tamil medium. The candidates shall
prepare their applications strictly in accordance with the
specimen. The application shall be prepared in A4 size
papers. Indicate numbers from 01 to 07 in the first page
and the remaining numbers in the rest of the pages.
Applications can be type written, but they should be
filled by the candidate him/ herself clearly in his/her own
handwriting following the instructions given in this
notification.
(ii) Application shall be perfected in duplicate. The copy of
the application shall be sent to the Divisional Secretary
to be filed in the personal file whist the original shall be
sent to the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(iii) All candidates shall send their applications by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
through the Divisional Secretary to whom the division
where he/ she serves belongs, on or before 13.01.2012.
(iv) The top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should bear, “Examination for Promotion to
Supra Grade of Grama Niladhari Service on Merit-2011”.
(v) Any document or a copy of such document shall not be
attached to the application. However, candidates shall
keep such documents required to prove his/ her
qualifications in order to provide whenever requested
08. Examination Fee .– The examination fee is Rs. 400.
Examination fee should be paid at any District or Divisional
Secretariat island-wide to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13
of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained
thus should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application form
(Receipt number, date and the office to which the fee has been paid
should be mentioned). The examination fee shall not be refunded.
The receipt shall have been issued strictly in favour of the candidate.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2059
09. Admission to the examination :
(i) Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission
cards in respect of each candidate who has submitted
application informing the date of the examination to be
held. Candidates shall render to the supervisor of the
examination hall, the admission card containing the
certification of his signature, on the first day of presenting
himself for the examination. Without such admission card,
no candidate shall be allowed neither to enter the examination
hall nor sit for the examination.
(ii) The issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/ she has the requisite qualifications
to sit the examination.
(iii) All candidates are bound to comply with the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations. If such rules and regulations were violated,
he/ she shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(iv) The Head of the Department shall grant duty leave for the
candidates who possess the admission cards issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations enabling them to
sit for the examination. No travelling charge shall be paid.
(v) Identity Cards.– Candidates will be required to prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the
examination hall for all the subjects they offer. For this
purpose, any of the following will be accepted :–
* Identity card issued by the Department of Registration
of Persons.
* A valid passport.
10. A notification will be published in newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations in the manner
specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the
following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations: i.e. certified photocopies of the application form
and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and,
in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing
a  fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
11. This notification is issued as per the order of the Public
Service Commission.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
01st December, 2011.
(For office use only)
Specimen Form of Application
EXAMINA TION FOR PROMOTION TO SUPRA GRADE
OF GRAMA NILADHARI SERVICE ON MERIT-2011
(From No. 1 – 07 shall be on the first page and from No. 08
onwards shall be on the rest of pages)
Medium of Examination:
(Indicate the relevant
number in the cage) District where the District
Sinhala -     2 candidate serves Number
Tamil -     3
English -     4
Town in which you wish to sit Town No.
for the examination
P
ART 1
(N. B.– The Application shall be filled clearly by the candidate in
his/ her handwriting)
01. (i) ( a) Name with initials (In Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
 (b) Name with initials (In English Block Capitals) :
––––––––––––.
(With initials at the end, eg. SILV A, M.A.)
02. (i) Office Address :–––––––––––.
(ii) Address to which the admission shall be sent :––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
03. (i) Divisional Secretary’s Division :–––––––––––.
     (ii) Grama Niladhari Division and number :–––––––––––.
04. (i) Sex : Male - 0
Female - 1
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
(ii) Date of Birth:-
Year :–––––––––– Month :––––––––– Date:–––––––––.
(iii) National Identity Card No:
05. (i) Date of appointment/ absorption to the post holding at
present and reference number and date of the letter :–––––.
(ii) T otal Period of service:
Years :–––––––– Months :–––––––– Days :––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2060
06. If the candidate has been absorbed to Grama Niladhari Service,
indicate following particulars:
(Fill the relevant paragraph only)
(i) Date of entry to the service of Special Service Officer  (Period
of service) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of entry to the Cultivation Officers’ Service (Period of
service) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Date of entry to the Agriculture Extension Service:––––––.
(Period of service)
(iv) Date of entry to any other similar service :–––––––––––.
(Period of service)
07. Are you an old or new entrant for the purpose of Official
Language Policy :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Have you earned all the salary increments during the period
of service :–––––––––––.
(ii) If not state the details :–––––––––––.
09. If you have been released at present for the service at a co-
operation or another service, state the particulars :––––––.
10. If you have obtained no-pay leave for a foreign employment
or for any other purpose, state the particulars :––––––––––.
11. Have any disciplinary actions being taken against you? If so,
state the details :–––––––––––.
N.B.– The receipt of the examination fee obtained from the
Divisional Secretariat shall be affixed here firmly so as not
to be detached as mentioned in the Gazette Notification.
I hereby certify that the above particulars are true and correct. I
am also aware that if any particular contained herein is found to be
false or incorrect, I am liable to dispossessed of my rights for the
promotion to Supra Grade of this service and further, I am liable to
be subjected to disciplinary action. Further, I state that I have no
objection for such action and I also agree to be bound by the orders
of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
  ––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
P
ART II
TO BE FILLED BY THE DIVISIONAL SECRETARY
I hereby certify that,
(i) The particulars provided above by Mr./Mrs./Miss
....................have been checked with his/ her personal file
and found to be true and correct.
(ii) The prescribed examination fee has been paid and the
receipt is affixed.
(iii) There is no intension to take any disciplinary action
against the officer.
(iv) His/ her service has been satisfactory within the five
years immediately proceeding the closing date of
applications and he/ she has been appointed to Grade I
of Grama Niladhari service from ....................and a copy
of the application submitted herewith is filed in the
officer’s personal file.
––––––––––––,
Divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
(Delete inapplicable words)
S
CHEDULE – NO. 01
EXAMINATION CENTERS
This examination shall be held in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Jaffna, Mannar, Mulathivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura, Badulla, Rathnapura and Kilinochchi for officers in
Grade II of Grama Niladhari Service. The relevant section of the
application shall be filled in accordance with the table containing
the towns and town numbers. It is not allowed to change the town/
towns applied at later occasions.
No. Town Town Number
01. Colombo 001
02. Kandy 002
03. Galle 003
04. Matara 004
05. Jaffna 005
06. Mannar 006
07. Mulathivu 007
08. Trincomalee 008
09. Batticaloa 009
10. Kurunegala 010
11. Anuradhapura 011
12. Badulla 012
13. Rathnapura 013
14. Kilinochchi 014
If any center mentioned above does not have a sufficient number
of candidates such center shall be cancelled and the relevant
candidates shall be directed to one of the nearest centers.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'12'16
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.12.2011
2061
SCHEDULE – NO. 02
LIST OF DISTRICT NUMBERS
Index District District Number
No.
1 Colombo 001
2 Gampaha 002
3 Kalutara 003
4 Kandy 004
5 Matale 005
6 Galle 006
7 Matara 007
8 Hambanthota 008
9 Kurunegala 009
10 Puttalam 010
11 Nuwara eliya 011
12 Rathnapura 012
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Index District District Number
No.
13 Badulla 013
14 Monaragala 014
15 Kegalle 015
16 Anuradhapura 016
17 Polonnaruwa 017
18 Ampara 018
19 Batticaloa 019
20 Trincomalee 020
21 Jaffna 021
22 V auniya 022
23 Mannar 023
24 Kilinochchi 024
25 Mulathiwu 025
12–645/2
Amendment
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND  HOME  AFFAIRS
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade I and II of Grama Niladari Service
FOLLOWING revisions are hereby made in the Gazette notification published under Section (a), Part I, Part II of the Gazette Notification
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,735 dated 02.12.2011, by which applications have been called for above
Efficiency Bar Examination.
Examination Revision to be made
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Subjects indicated in Section 1.0, para 5.0 of the Gazette notification in
Grama Niladari Service - 2011 Sinhala language are revised as office systems, general conduct and
discipline of Public Service.
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of The Chapters of the Establishments Code indicated in para 5.1 of the
Grama Niladari Service - 2011 Tamil translation of the said Gazette notification are revised as
XLVII and XLVIII.
3. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of The title in Sinhala translation of the Gazette notification of Efficiency
Grama Niladari Service - 2011 Bar Examination for officers in Grade II published in page 2 of the
Gazette is revised as Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in
Grade II of Grama Niladari Service – 2011.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
06th December, 2011.
12–765