

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Part II of   December 04, 2015
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 07. 12. 2015)
ABHIMANI SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURAL FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
to incorporate the Abhimani Social Development and Cultural  Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. (Mrs.) Hirunika Premachandra,
M. P. for Colombo District
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5.
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
(Private Member’ s Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009719—225 (01/2016)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE ABHIMANI SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND
CULTURAL FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the "Abhimani
Social Development and Cultural Foundation" has
heretofore been formed for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected with
the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its
members.
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transcated the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:–
1. This Act may be cited as the Abhimani Social
Development and Cultural Foundation (Incorporation) Act
No.   of 2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
"Abhimani Social Development and Cultural Foundation"
(hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation")  or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted shall be and become a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as the "Corporation") with perpetual succession
under the name and style of the"Abhimani Social
Development and Cultural Foundation" and by that name
may sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:–
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Abhimani
Social
Development
and Cultural
Foundation.
30
The General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(a) To promote, peace, goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities of Sri Lanka;'
(b) To assist school children to develop and establish
their educational, philosophical, religious, cultural
and scientific activities;
(c) To give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children to enable them to contitue their
education without disturbances, and to encourage
them to attend school regularly;
(d) To assist suitable and needy school children as the
Foundation may deem fit, to improve their social,
economical and educational status by promoting
welfare;
(e) To promote and protect human rights, human
values, and knowledge in social ethics, fundamental
freedom, democracy and rights in Sri Lankan
citizens;
(f) To give assistance, prizes and schoolarships as the
Foundation may deem fit, to suitable and needy
school children to continue their higher education
without interuption;
(g) To assist and encourage needy school children who
are following their higher education by awarding
scholarships and in other suitable ways, to improve
their education and for researches;
(h) To improve mental and economic status of women,
children and the persons subjected to social
discrimination and assist in the implementation of
projects to empower them;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
(i) To take steps to promote and encourage
humanitation, sports, literature, aesthetic and
spiritual activities among school children;
(j) To take steps to provide food, shelter, temples etc.
to the venerable buddhist priests and for their
development;
(k) To take steps for the spiritual development and
improvement of the society by conducting
programmes for alms giving,  observing sil and
meditation with the participation of venerable
buddhist priests;
(l) To establish and maintain information technology
centers island wide for the advancement and
development of scientific knowledge of school
children and conduct educational programmes for
them;
(m) To arrange to implement and maintain self
employment development projects to improve
social and economic conditions of persons who need
assistance;
(n) To liaise and coordinate with other local and foreign
institutions which have similar objects;
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors including the Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
elected in accordince with such rules;
(2) The founder member of the Foundation Reverend
Mawarale Bhaddiya Thero shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life  and the Chairman shall be the
Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation thereafter a
25
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
nominee by Reverend Mawarale Bhaddiya Thero shall be
the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall, unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directos a new member shall be appointed by the Board of
Directors to fill such vacancy and such new member shall
hold office for the remainder of such period of four years of
his predecessor.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or  raise moneys with or without security, to receive
or collect grants and donations and to engage, employ and
dismisss servants required for the carrying out of the objects
of the corporation.
6. (1) it shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time at any General Meeting of the members and by votes of
at least two-thirds of the members present and voting, to
make rules, not inconstistent with the  provisions of this
Act, or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters;
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directos, the quorum for such meetings
and the exerscise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appontment, powers, duties and functions of
the various offices, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to, amended or rescinded in like manner at a like
meeting as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, fees or grants for and
on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the Board
of Directos shall determine.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray and expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9 The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any prpoerty, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purpose of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever such property shall not be
distributed among the members of Corporation, but  shall be
given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which,
is or are by its rules prohibited from distributing an income
or property among its members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
spent by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(3) The  accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
Audit and
Accounts.
30
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chairman  and one member of the Board of Directors who
shall sign their names to the instrument in token of their
presnece and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic, or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them,
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Abhimani Social Development and
Cultural Foundation (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .