

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.05.2015
1A
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Government  Notifications
UNIIVERSITIES  ACT,  No.  16  OF 1978
Order under Section 25A
BY virtue of powers vested in me by Section 25A of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 I, Dr. Sarath Amunugama, the Minister
of Higher Education and Research, having obtained a report under Section 70 C of the aforesaid Act, in respect of the South
Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (Pvt.) Ltd. (SAITM) a company incorporated in Sri Lanka under the Companies
Act, No. 7 of 2007 and bearing Registration Number PV 64641, do by this Order and subject to the conditions specified in
Schedule I hereto, recognize the South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (Pvt.) Ltd. (SAITM) as a Degree
Awarding Institute for the purpose of developing higher education therein, leading to the award of the Degrees specified in
Column I of the Schedule II hereto, of which the abbreviations are set out in the corresponding entries respectively in
Column II of the Schedule II hereto.
SCHEDULE  I
C
ONDITIONS
(1) SAITM - South Asian Institute of Technology and Medicine (Pvt.) Limited (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”)
shall before the expiry of two months from the date of granting the degree awarding status, submit its Article of
Association duly amended as set out below to the specified Authority :–
(a) to specify higher education as an object in the Article of Association ;
(b) to undertake to inform the Specific Authority of  Voluntary winding up of  the Company prior to such winding
up.
(2) The Institute shall before the expiry of Twelve months (12) from the date of granting the degree awarding status,
submit the following details to Specified Authority :-
(i) proof of  recruitment of qualified academic and non-academic staff as to meet the requirements of the relevant
degree programme ;
w;s úfYI
wxl 1913$14 - 2015 uehs ui 07 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2015'05'07
No. 1913/14  -  THURSDAY,   MAY  07,   2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. D. B. 21/1978(x).

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'07
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 07.05.2015
2A
(ii) a study program for the specified period of study in accordance with the norms approved by the University
Grants Commission ;
(iii)proof of the availability of the text books, hand books, recommended reading books and other sufficient
learning materials required for the relevant degree programme ;
(iv) proof of availability of spacious modernized library with all required collection of books and materials, which
would enable students who carry out and the required of researches for the relevant degree programme ; and
(v) specifying the requirement for the staff to engage in relevant researches and publish such researches in
journals in Sri Lanka.
(3) The Institute shall before the expiry of 03 years from the date of granting the degree awarding status, establish the
following laboratories required to the Engineering Bachelor of Science (Hons.) in Civil Engineering Degree Programme.
(i) Material and Mechanics Laboratory,
(ii)Surveying Laboratory,
(iii) Structural Testing Laboratory,
(iv) Geotechnical Laboratory,
(v) Hydraulic Laboratory.
(4) Establishment of Laboratories : SAITM shall increase following laboratory facilities before completion of second
academic year of the first batch of student enrolment and obtain approval of specified Authority :
(i) Robotics and Artificial Intelligence Lab
(ii) Industrial Automation and Process Control Lab
(iii) Electronics, Instrumentation and Power System Lab
(iv) Engineering Workshop.
(5) Evidence of Quality Assurance Mechanism implementation shall be submitted on an half yearly basis and full
implementation evidence shall be submitted within one year of enrolling first batch.
SCHEDULE  II
Column I Column II
Degree programme Abbreviations to the Degree
Bachelor of Science in Engineering in Mechatronics Engineering Degree BSc (Eng.) (Mechatronics Eng.)
Bachelor of Science in Engineering (Hons.) in Civil Engineering Degree BSc Hons. (Civil Eng.)
In this Order “the Specified Authority” means the Secretary to the Minister of the Minister assigned the subject of
Higher Education and Research.
Dr. SARATH AMUNUGAMA,
Minister of Higher Education and Research.
06th May, 2015,
Colombo.
05–537
PRINTED AT THE DEP ARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.