

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1595
1595
wxl 1"622 - 2009 Tlaf;dan¾ 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2009'10'02
No. 1,622 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 02, 2009
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1598
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1602
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th October, 2009 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th
September, 2009.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1596
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1597
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1598
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars – Marriages, Births and Deaths, Hambantota District
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Development Societies
and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th October, 2009 .
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
01st September, 2009.
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary's Division and Post for which Address to which applications
Division applications are called should be sent
Hambantota Beliatta Post of Registrar of marriages (General) of District Secretary/Addi. Registrar
Giruwa Pattu South Division and Births General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Getamanna Division Hambantota.
10–17
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE  AND  LAW  REFORMS
Recruitment of Assistant Legal  Draftsmen to the Legal Draftsman’s Department — 2009
APPLICATIONS for recruitment to the Post of Assistant Legal Draftsman in the Legal Draftsman’s Department are invited from persons
who are Citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the qualifications set out below:–
01. Age Limit .— Applicants should be not less than 25 years and not more than 35 years of age as on the last date for accepting
the completed applications. The upper age limit will not apply to persons who are already employed in the Public Service or in the
Provincial Public Service.
02. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
The Applicant –
(i) should be a person who has been enrolled as an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka; and

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1599
(ii) should have passed at least six subjects in not more than two sittings at the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary
Level) with a Credit either in the Sinhala or Tamil Language and a Credit in the English Language.
03. Salary Scale .— This post carries the salary scale of Rs. 28,095 - 5 x 645 - 5 x 790 - 15 x 1,050 - Rs. 51,020 per month
(S.L. - 5-2006 salary scale under the Public Administration Circular 06/2006).
04. ( a) Method of Recruitment .– Candidates who are possessed of the qualifications specified above and who have forwarded
applications, will be called for a Structured Interview by an Interview Board as approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The sele ction of
candidates for recruitment shall be done on the basis of the Marking Scheme as approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, which is s et out
below :–
Marking scheme for the Structured Interview Total marks
01. General principles of Law :
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Principles of Statutory
Interpretation including the Interpretation Ordinance 30
02. Language Proficiency (Additional qualification) :
Should have obtained a Distinction for either Sinhala/Tamil/English, for language at the G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Examination (03 marks per subject) 9
A pass in Sinhala/Tamil/English at the G. C. E. (Advanced Level Examination) or a higher qualification
from an institution recognized by the government on submission of a Diploma or similar
Certificate in respect of the above mentioned subjects. (The duration of the course should be not
less than 06 months) (05 marks per language) 15
03. Additional Educational qualifications :
(i) A Degree in Law 10
(ii) A Postgraduate qualification in Law 15
(iii) Degree in other fields - 5
(other than in the language field)
04. Personality : 8
05. Experience :
At least 02 years experience in the legal profession 8
(02 marks per year for 04 years)
Total 100
(i) Only applicants who have forwarded applications which are complete in every aspect shall be summoned for the
Structured Interview.
(ii) The Structured Interview shall be conducted in Sinhala and English/Tamil and English. Candidates should have the ability
to understand and answer the questions in their first language and in English.
(iii) To be eligible for selection a candidate should obtain 40 marks or above. The selection will be done by choosing the
candidate who has obtained the highest marks and so on till all the vacancies are filled.
(The original Certificates or certified copies of such Certificates should be brought to the interview)
(b) Terms of Employment.— The post is permanent and pensionable.
(c) Conditions of Service .— The appointment will be subject to Paragraphs 10 to 12 of Chapter II of the Establishment
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The Rules of the Public Service Commission relating to appointment, service conditions, discipline and other
administrative measures shall be applicable along with the conditions specified in the Establishments Code.
Within 05 years of recruitment, every officer shall obtain Language Profeciency in the identified second language in
terms of Public Administration Circular 07/2007.
B3 - B 80053

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1600
05. ( a) Applications should be forwarded under registered cover to reach the following address on or before 23.10.2009.
Applications received after such date will be rejected.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reform
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
(b) A Specimen Application form appears at the end of this notification. Applicants should forward their applications
prepared on A4 size paper and it should be filled by the applicants themselves in their own handwriting. (Particulars
under Paragraphs 01 to 08 should appear on the first page, particular under Paragraphs 09 to 11 should appear on the
second page and the particular required by Paragraphs 12 I to 12 II on the third page.)
(c) The words "Application for Recruitment of Assistant Legal Draftsmen to the Legal Draftsman’s Department" should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
(d) The Candidate’s Signature on the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/Justice of the
Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/Commissioned Officer of the Armed Forces/or an
Officer holding a permanent government post receiving a consolidated salary of over Rs. 20,030 per mensum.
(e) Candidates presently employed in the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service should forward their applications
through the Head of the Department in which they are serving.
(f) Applications which are not complete in every respect will be rejected. No complaint of delay or loss of application
will be entertained.
06. Identity of Applicants .—
Only applicants who have forwarded applications which are complete in every aspect shall be summoned for the Structured
Interview.
Any of the following will be accepted for the purpose of proving identity at the Structured Interview :–
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for Registration of persons.
(iii) A valid passport.
07. Tendering of False information . — If it is revealed at any time prior to recruitment that the candidate has submitted an
application containing false or incorrect information the candidature of the candidate shall be subject to cancellation. If the submitting of
false or incorrect information is discovered at any time after recruitment, steps shall be taken to dismiss such officer in ter ms of the
applicable procedures.
By Order of the Cabinet of Ministers,
S. K. G
AMALATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms.
Ministry of Justice and Law Reforms,
Colombo 12,
15th September, 2009.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
(Application form should be prepared as follows)
(a) Size : A4
(b) Page 1 : Nos. 1-8
Page 2 : Nos. 9-11
Page 3 : Nos. 12 I - 12 II
A
PPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF ASSISTANT LEGAL DRAFTSMAN
01. Name :
(a) Surname with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
In Sinhala/Tamil :––––––––.
(b) Names denoted by initials (in English block capitals) :——————.
In Sinhala/Tamil :——————.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1601
02. Address to which the admission card should be sent:——————.
In English block capitals:——————.
In Sinhala/Tamil :——————.
03. Permanent Address :——————.
District to which it belongs :——————.
04. Sex : Male - 1
Female - 2
05. Medium in which you will appear at the Structured Interview :
Sinhala and English - 1
Tamil and English - 2
06. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :——————.
Yes -  1
No - 2
07. National Indentity Card No. :——————.
08. Date of Birth :
Year:———, Month :———, Date:———.
09. (i) Professional and other qualifications:——————.
(ii) Highest qualification obtained in the Second Language:——————.
(iii) Hig hest qualification obtained in the first Language :——————.
(In case of G . C. E. (O/L) of (A/L.) the year of examination and the Grades obtained (e.g. Credit, Distinction) should be given.)
(iv)  (i)  Degree qualifications:
Degree Subjects Qualification (Grade) Y ear Name of University
(ii) Post Graduate Qualifications:
Name of Post Year in which Post Graduate Name of University
Graduate Degree Degree was awarded
(v) Experience as an Attorney-at-Law :
(Please attach a Service Certificate)
10. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of law for any offence: Yes/No.
If yes, please give particulars -
11. Applicant’s Certificate :
(a) I do hereby solemnly declare make oath that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best
of my knowledge.
(b) I am aware that if this statement made by me is found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification before selection and
to dismissal in terms of applicable procedures, if the falsehood or inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
——————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :——————.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1602
12. (i) Attestation of applicant’s Signature :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. —————— who is forwarding this application is personally know to me and that
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this ———— day of ————  2005.
——————,
Signature of Attestor.
Full Name of Attestor :——————;
Designation :——————;
Address :——————;
Date :——————.
12. (ii) Certificate of the Head of the Department
I do hereby certify that I have checked the particulars furnished above by the applicant, and certify that they are correct, an d
that the work, attendance and conduct of the applicant is satisfactory. If the candidate is selected for the post through the
Structured Interview, the applicant can be/cannot be, released from service.
——————,
Signature of Head of Department
Designation :——————;
Date :——————.
10-98
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
SRI  LANKA  LIBRARIANS'  SERVICE  -  2009
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade III and II
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade II and III
of Sri Lanka Librarians' Service will be held in Colombo in the
month of January, 2010 as provided for in paragraphs 09 and 10 of
the Sri Lanka Librarians' Service Minute published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1002/13 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka dated 19.11.1997.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates are bound
by the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of the Gazette Notification. Candidates will
be liable to any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for breach of
these rules.
03. The specimen form of application for this examination is
published at the end of this notice. Candidates should prepare their
own applications correctly and legibly in accordance with the
specimen form of application and send through the respective Heads
of Departments by registered post to reach the Commissioner-
General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or
before 03rd November, 2009. The name of the examination and the
relevant grade should be indicated at the top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
04. Identity Cards .– Candidates should prove their identity to
the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall for each
subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for this purpose :
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the
Commissioner of the Department of Registration of
Persons.
(b) A valid Passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any
of the above mentioned documents is liable to be cancelled on the
discretion of the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
05. Applications.– Applications should be prepared using both
sides of a paper of 8" x 12" size in such a way that Nos. 1.0 to 5.0
appear on the 1st page whilst the Nos. 6.0 to 9.0 appear on the 2nd
Page. The application could be typewritten but it should be filled
in correctly and legibly by candidate's own handwriting.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have
not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form. Please indicate the title of the examination
appearing the specimen in English Language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice.
Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not
pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings, candidates
should pay Rs. 175 for the whole examination and Rs. 90 for one
subject. The cash receipt obtained form any post office by making
the payment to be credited to revenue head 4000-20-03-20-13 of

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1603
the Commissioner General of Examinations, should be affixed in
the due place of the application. The fee will not be refunded under
any circumstance and will not be transferred in respect of any other
examination. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash receipt
with the candidate.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission cards along with copies of the time table to all candidates
who have paid the relevant fees, whose applications have been
filled properly and received on or before the closing date. Candidate
appearing for the examination should get their signatures on the
admission cards attested in advance and produce to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will
not be permitted to sit the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card
is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the notification. It would be advisable to keept
the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the application form
and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and
in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
08. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium of the entry examination to the relevant service or
in the official language. Candidates who entered the service without
a Competitive Examination should answer both papers in the
language medium of their education or in the official language. It
would not be allowed to change the language medium of examination
indicated in the application subsequently.
09. The officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions. However, for a pass, officers should obtain at
least 40% of the total marks for each subject.
10. Release of the results of the examination.– The Commissioner-
General of Examinations will issue the results to the Director General
of Combined Services. The list of names of officers who have
passed the Examination will be published in the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
11. Scheme of Examination :
11.1 Efficiency Bar examination for the officers in Grade
III of the Librarians' Service.
(i) General Administration - Duration - 02 Hours
(Subject No. 01) - 100 marks.
Chapters I to VIII and XII, XIV , XXIV , XXVII,
XXVIII, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII of the
Establishment Code are included. (The situation
before the implementation of procedural rules of
Public Service Commission published in the
gazette extraordinary  No. 1,589/30 dated
20.02.2009 will be applicable in this regard.)
(ii) Financial Procedure - Duration 02 Hours (Subject
No. 02) - 100 marks.
Financial Regulations - Part I (excluding Chapter
X)
Accounts work performed by librarians and the
relevant regulations.
N. B.– Candidates should obtained 40% of marks for
each subject to pass this examination.
11.2 Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Grade
II of the Librarians' Service.
1. General Administration and Financial Procedure -
duration 03 hours (Subject No. 03) - 100 marks.
Part I - Administration (duration 1 1/2 hours) - 50
marks.
(i) Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Chapters I to VIII and XIV , XXIV , XXV , XXVII,
XXVIII, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII of the
Establishment Code. (The situation before the
implementation of procedural rules of Public
Service Commission published in the Gazette
Extra Ordinary No. 1,589/30 dated 20.02.2009
will be applicable in this regard.)
(iii) Sri Lanka Library Association Incorporation
Act, - 714.
(iv) Sri Lanka Library Service Board Act.
(v) Intellectual Property Act.
Part II – Financial Procedure (duration 1 1/2
hours) - 50 marks.
(i) Financial Regulations – Part I
(ii) Accounts work performed by librarians
and relevant regulations
2. Library Organization - duration 03 hours (Subject
No. 04) - 100 marks.
(i) Categories and Services of Libraries,
(ii) Library sources and Organization,
(iii) Government Publications and the usage.
N.B.– Candidates should obtain 40% of marks for
each subject to pass this Examination.
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARATHNA,
Director General of Combined Services.
Combined Services Division,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th September, 2009.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1604
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE III AND II OF
THE SRI LANKA LIBRARIANS' SERVICE – 2009
(For Office use only)
Medium of Language in which you are appearing for the exam
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
1.3 Last name with initials (in block capitals, e. g.- SILVA,
A.B.)
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Name of the Ministry/Department/Office :––––––––––.
2.2 Office Address :––––––––––. (Admission cards will be
sent by post to this address)
3.0 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
4.0 Indicate "x" opposite the Efficiency Bar Examination you are
applying for in the Sri Lanka Librarians' Service :
4.1 Grade III of the Librarians' Service
4.2 Grade II of the Librarians' Service
4.3 Subjects offering and respective Subjects Numbers :
Subject Subject No.
5.0 5.1 National Identity Card No. :
5.2 Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :––––––––––.
6.2 Number of the Appointment Letter :––––––––––.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––.
7.2 If not, give following particulars of the affixed cash receipt,
received from any post office at the time of paying
examination fees :
No. :––––––––––. Amount :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––. Office issued :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the medium indicate above
and that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
–––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that,
(i) This candidate is employed in this department as an officer
in Grade II/III of the Librarians Service.
(ii) The particulars furnished above are correct.
(iii) His/her work and conduct have been satisfactory
throughout ; and he/she has not been subjected to any
form of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during
the past 5 year period ; and
(iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
(v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the
receipt has been affixed. (Delete if inapplicable)
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department
and official stamp.
Designation :––––––––––;
Address :––––––––––;
Date :––––––––––.
10–210

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1605
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I ... ... ... ... ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I ... ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II ... ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III ... ... ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II ... ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III ... ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V
... ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI ... ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2009'10'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.10.2009
1606
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
SCHEDULE
Month D ate of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2009
OCTOBER 02.10.2009 Firday — 18.09.2009 Friday 12 noon
09.10.2009 Friday –– 25.09.2009 Friday 12 noon
16.10.2009 Friday –– 02.10.2009 Friday 12 noon
23.10.2009 Friday –– 09.10.2009 Friday 12 noon
30.10.2009 Friday –– 16.10.2009 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 06.11.2009 Firday — 23.10.2009 Friday 12 noon
13.11.2009 Friday –– 30.10.2009 Friday 12 noon
20.11.2009 Friday –– 06.11.2009 Friday 12 noon
27.11.2009 Friday –– 13.11.2009 Friday 12 noon
DECEMBER 04.12.2009 Firday — 20.11.2009 Friday 12 noon
11.12.2009 Friday –– 27.11.2009 Friday 12 noon
18.12.2009 Friday –– 04.12.2009 Friday 12 noon
24.12.2009 Thursday –– 11.12.2009 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2009.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.