

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1525
1525
wxl 1"770 - 2012 wf.daia;= 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'08'03
No. 1,770 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 03, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1527
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 24th August, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 10th
August, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and  IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,769 of 27.07.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1526
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Stan dard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1527
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  NATIONAL  LANGUAGES  AND
SOCIAL  INTEGRATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to
the Post of National Integration Co-ordinators
Grade III – 2012
APPLICA TIONS are invited from eligible citizens of Sri Lanka for
the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the National
Integration Co-ordinators, Grade III, vacancies in the Ministry of
National Languages and Social Integration.
02. Eligible candidates will be selected for appointment to the
post of National Integration Co-ordinator, Grade III, in the order of
merit based on the results of a written examination to be conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations and a structured
interview to be conducted by the Ministry of National Languages
and Social Integration.
03. The number of persons to be selected for appointment and
the date of commencement of appointment will be determined by
the Secretary to the Ministry. The Secretary to the Ministry reserves
the right not to fill any particular number of vacancies or any of the
vacancies.
04. Monthly salary scale.– Rs. 13,120 -10x145-11x170-10x240
- 10x320 - Rs. 22,040.
05. The post is permanent and pensionable.
06. Eligibility.– The following are the eligibilities for recruitment
to the post of National Integration Co-ordinator, Grade III. It is
compulsory that the applicant should possess all the required
eligibilities on the closing date of application or before the closing
date.
6.1 Educational qualifications :
(a) pass in the General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level) Examination with six (06) subjects
in one sitting including credit passes in Sinhala/
Tamil/English and Math’s in addition to credit
passes in any other two (02) subjects.
(b) pass in at least one subject in the General Certificate
of Education (Advance Level) Examination
(excluding general public examinations).
6.2 Vocational Qualifications. – V ocational qualifications
obtained in the respective field will be considered as an
additional qualification.
6.3 Physical and mental fitness .– Applicant should be
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and discharge his/her official duties.
6.4 Others :
(i) should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) applicant should be a person with excellent
character.
6.5 Age limit.– The age of the applicant should not be less
than 18 years and not more than 35 years on the closing
date of the applications.
07. Examination procedure :
7.1 Written examination will consist of 03 question papers.
The examination will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil/
English medium and any request for change of medium
applied for will not be allowed subsequently.
7.2 The examination will be conducted island wide in the
towns given in Schedule I. Request for change of town
applied for will not be allowed subsequently. If the
number of candidates applied for a particular town is
not sufficient the candidates will be transferred to an
examination centre in the adjoining town. (This question
paper will be prepared in order to assess the eligibility
and ability of the applicant to discharge his/her duties).
7.3 The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations in regard to conducting of the examination
and releasing of results will be final.
08. Scheme of recruitment :
(a) Recruitment will be made on the basis of a written
examination and structured interview. All applicants
who score marks more than 40% for each of the
three question papers in the written examination
will be called for the structured interview.
Appointment to the existing vacancies will be made
according to the serial order of merit list prepared on
the basis of total marks obtained in the written
examination and at the structured interview by each
applicant. The results of all applicants will be
published on the website of the Department of
Examinations on completion of necessary steps for
making the appointments.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1528
(b) Written Examination  : will consist of 03 question
papers.
Question Subject Duration T otal Minimum
paper number marks marks
required for
eligibility
Language ability 01 01 hour 100 41
Ability to face
challenges 02 01 hour 100 41
Knowledge about
subject related
studies 03 01 hour 100 41
(c) Subject recommendation :
Name of question Subject recommendation
paper
Language ability This question paper will consist of objective
questions to assess the knowledge of
the candidates in expression of ideas,
understanding, orthography and usage
of simple grammar. All questions are to
be answered.
Ability to face This question paper will consist of objective
challenges questions to assess the statistical ability
argumentative talent and general
knowledge of the candidates. All
questions are to be answered.
Knowledge about This question paper will consist of objective
subject related questions  to  assess  the  knowledge of
studies the candidates relating to important
contemporary happenings in Sri Lanka
and abroad, history, culture, ethnic
crisis and safeguarding of social
integration. All questions are to be
answered.
(d) Structured Interview :
No. Subjects to be tested Maximum
for providing marks marks
1 Additional educational qualification 20
2 Knowledge in English language 20
3 Knowledge in Tamil/Sinhala language 20
4 Computer knowledge 10
5 V ocational qualifications 25
6 Leadership, personality and 6
communication ability as approved
by the interview board
09. Punishment for false information. – Particulars should be
frunished very cautiously and perfectly when the application form
is perfected. The candidature of any candidate will be cancelled
before the examination or while the examination is being conducted
or after the examination or at any time if it is revealed that he/she is
not eligible according to the rules and regulations relating to this
examination. If it is found at anytime that the particulars furnished
by the applicant are false he/she is liable to be dismissed from
government service.
10. Examination fee. – Examination fee is Rs. 500. The
examination fee could be paid at any District Secretariat or Divisional
Secretary's Office located in any part of the country to be credited
to the Income Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations and the receipt obtained should be properly affixed
on the specified space in the application. It will be useful if a
photocopy of the receipt is retained by the applicant. It is
compulsory that the receipt for the payment of fee should be
issued in the name of the applicant.
11. Application form should be prepared using A4 (24x.29 cm.)
size paper.
(a) Application form should be prepared to enable to
include paragraphs No. 01 to 2.4 in the first page ; and
(b) From paragraph No. 03 to the end in the other pages.
(c) When the application form is prepared the name of
examination at the top of the form (heading) should be
stated in English too in addition to the name furnished
in Sinhala or Tamil if the application is made in Sinhala
or Tamil.
The relevant particulars should be clearly written in the
own hand writing of the applicant. The applicant is
responsible for any losses for not perfecting the
application correctly. It will be useful for the applicant
to keep a photocopy of the application with him. The
applicant should ensure that the application form
perfected by him is in accordance with the specimen
form appearing in the examination notification.
Application which is not in accordance with the
specimen form is liable to be rejected.
11.1 Admission cards will be sent to all the applicants,
who paid the examination fee and submitted the
applications on the closing date or before, on the
presumption that only the applicants who posses
the qualifications stipulated in the Gazette
notification have applied for the examination but
it should not be considered as acceptance that the
applicant posses the required qualification for the
post. Candidature of the applicant will be cancelled
if it is revealed on examination of application at
the time of interview that the applicant does not
possess the required qualification as stipulated in
the Gazette notification.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1529
11.2 The words "Open Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the post of National Integration Co-
ordinator, Grade III - 2012" should be written on
the top left side corner of the envelope used for
sending the application.
11.3 The signature of the applicant in the application
form should be certified by a principal of a
Government Vidyalaya or a Commissioner of Oaths
or a Justice of Peace or an authorized officer of the
security forces or a notary public or a police officer
holding Gazette post or an officer holding
permanent post in government service and in
receipt of an annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or more.
11.4 Perfected application form should be sent to the
following address by registered post on or before
03.09.2012 :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka,
Pelawatha,
Battaramulla.
12. Appearance for Examination. – Immediately after the
admission cards are dispatched to the applicants a press notice
about the dispatch will be published by the Commissioner General
of Examinations. If the admission card is not received by the
applicant after 02 or 03 days from the date of publication of the
notice the applicant should inform the Department of Examinations
of Sri Lanka as indicated in the notice. It will be very useful to the
applicant if the certified photocopies of the application and
payment receipt retained by him/her and letter informing the fax
numbers (in case the applicant is in a distant place from Colombo)
are kept ready by the applicant when informing the Department of
Examinations of Sri Lanka.
12.1 One of the following documents should be produced to
the officer in charge of the examination centre to prove
the identity of the candidate :
* Valid National Identity Card issued by the
Department of Registration of persons.
* Valid passport.
12.2 Admission card with the signature of the candidate duly
certified should be submitted to the officer in charge of
the examination centre on the day of the examination.
13. Issue of admission card to the candidate should not be
construed as acceptance of his/her eligibility to appear for the
examination. The candidates are abided by the rules and regulations
enforced by the Commissioner General of Examinations in regard
to the conducting of the examination and his decisions in regard to
the release of results. The candidate will be subjected to punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations if the rules
and regulations are violated by him/her.
14. The Secretary to the Ministry will decide on matters, it
there are any, which are not dealt with here. All applicants are
bound to adhere to the common examination rules and regulations
published in this Gazette.
M. S. W
ICKRAMASINGHE,
Secretary,
Ministry of National Languages and
Social Integration.
Ministry of National Languages,
and Social Integration,
No. 40, Buthgamuwa Road, Rajagiriya.
SCHEDULE I
NAME AND NUMBERS OF THE TOWNS
Town No.
Colombo 01
Gampaha 02
Kalutara 03
Matale 04
Kandy 05
Nuwara-Eliya 06
Galle 07
Matara 08
Hambanthota 09
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
Vavuniya 13
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Ampara 16
Puttalam 17
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Pollonnaruwa 20
Badulla 21
Monaragala 22
Kegalle 23
Ratnapura 24
Kilinochchi 25
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF NATIONAL LANGUAGES AND SOCIAL
INTEGRATION
The Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Post of
National Integration Co-ordinator, Grade III – 2012
The name of the examination given at the top of the specimen
form should be included at the top of the application in English as
well in addition to the name in Sinhala or Tamil if the application is
made in Sinhala or Tamil.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1530
(For official use)
Medium selected for the examination :
Sinhala – 2
Tamil – 3
English – 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
* State the name and the number of the town selected to appear
for the examination as stipulated in the gazette notification :
Town Town No.
(see 7.2 of the gazette notification)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials (initials last) :–––––––––.
(in English capital letters) i. e. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Full name :–––––––––.
(in English capital letters)
1.3 Full name :–––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
1.5 Female/Male :
Female – 1
Male – 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(Write in English capital letters)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card is to be sent (in
English capital letters) :–––––––––.
2.4 Telephone Number (if available) :–––––––––.
3.0 3.1 District in which the applicant is permanently residing :
–––––––––.
3.2 Divisional Secretary's Division :–––––––––.
3.3 Period of residence :–––––––––.
3.4 Grama Officer's Division :–––––––––.
4.0 Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :–––––––––.
Age on 03.09.2012 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
5.0 Educational qualifications :
5.1 Particulars relating to G. C. E. (O/L) :
(i) Year of examination and month :–––––––––.
(ii) Examination number :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
Particulars relating to G . C. E. (A/L) :
(i) Year of examination and month :–––––––––.
(ii) Examination number :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 3.
2. 4.
6.0 V ocational qualifications :
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
7.0 Have you ever been found guilty in a court of law at any time
for any charges ?
(tick 3 in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
(If yes state particulars) :–––––––––.
8.0 Particulars of receipt obtained for payment of examination fee :
(i) Office at which the examination fee was paid :––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and date :–––––––––.
(iii) Amount paid Rs. :–––––––––.
Affix here the receipt obtained for examination fee firmly.
(Applicant to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
9.0 My certification by applicant :
(a) I declare that all particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to bear any loss for not completing
any part of the application form and/or for completing
the form incorrectly. Further, I declare that all parts of
this form have been completed by me.
(b) I am aware that I will get disqualified before the appointment
is made or dismissed from service after the appointment
is made if the declaration made by me is proved to be
false.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1531
(c) I further declare that I will abide by the rules and regulations
enforced by the Commissioner General of Examinations
relating to the conducting of examination and by his
decision relating to the releasing of results.
(d) I shall not change any particulars furnished here later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
10. Certification of Signature of the applicant :
I certify that I personally know the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss
............... and he/she has paid the required examination fee and
affixed the receipt in this application and placed his/her signature in
my presence on ..................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Certifying Officer.
Date :–––––––––.
Full name of the certifying officer :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Confirm with official stamp).
08–88

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1532
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.08.2012
1533
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
AUGUST 03.08.2012 Friday — 20.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
10.08.2012 Friday –– 27.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
17.08.2012 Friday –– 03.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
24.08.2012 Friday –– 10.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.08.2012 Thursday –– 17.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 07.09.2012 Friday — 24.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
14.09.2012 Friday –– 30.08.2012 Thursday 12 noon
21.09.2012 Friday –– 07.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
28.09.2012 Friday –– 14.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
OCTOBER 05.10.2012 Friday — 21.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
12.10.2012 Friday –– 28.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
19.10.2012 Friday –– 05.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
25.10.2012 Thursday –– 12.10.2012 Friday 12 noon
B. K. S. R AVINDRA,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.