

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1362
    Page
Post - Vacant … … …  1360
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"121 – 2019 wfm%a,a ui 26 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'04'26
No. 2,121 –  FRiday ,  aPRil 26, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 17th May, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 03rd May, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1357-B 81516- 5,403 (04/2019)
Note.– Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship trust Fund (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of april 18, 2019.
N.B.–  the list of Jurors in Galle - Balapitiya district Jurisdiction areas in year 2019, has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in 
Sinhala, tamil and English languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1358
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1359
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1360
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
diStRict oF NuwaRa Eliya
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
27.05.2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on this 14th day of March, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  Application are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Nuwara 
Eliya
Hanguranketha Post of Birth and death Registrar of diyatilake 
division and Post of Marriages Registrar (General/
Kandyan) of udahewaheta division 
district Secretary/the additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya.
04–546

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1361
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrars of births, Deaths and (General) marriages/Additional Registrar of (General),
marriages - Tamil medium
 
MullaitiVu  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Births, deaths and Marriages/additional Registrar of, in the 
divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies as given in the following 
Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village list and list of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant District Secretariat (Government Agent's Office) or Land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariats 
of the district. 
07. Duly filled applications shall be posted to the address mention in the Schedule on or before 20th May, 2019 by 
Register Post.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 05th april, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretary's 
Division
Division  and Post for which  Application is called Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Mullaitivu Maritime Pattu Post of Registrar of Births and deaths of 
Karikkaddumoolai South division and Marriages 
(General) of Maritime Pattu division (tamil)
the district Secretary/the 
additional Registrar General, 
district Secretariat, Mullaitivu
04–1108

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1362
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION 
AND DISASTER mANAGEmENT
1st Efficiency Bar Examination of the 
Development Officers’  Service - 2015(II)2019
1.0 it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for the officers in Grade III of Development Officers’ 
Service shall be held by the commissioner-General of 
Examinations in the month of august, 2019 as per provisions 
of Para 10 of the approved service minute of development 
Officers’ Service published in the Gazette extraordinary 
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing 
No. 1745/11 dated 14.02.2012 revised by the Gazette 
extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka bearing No. 1774/31 dated 07.09.2012.
2.0 This examination for officers in Grade III of the 
Development Officers’ Service shall be held in Colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, 
trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, 
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. the list of 
relevant towns and town numbers are given below. the                                                                                                          
commissioner- General of Examinations reserves the right 
to cancel any center due to insufficiency of applicants or 
any other reason and direct the applicants to an examination 
center located at the town of the applicant’s second preference 
of towns or a nearby town. Further, if a sufficient number of 
applicants have not applied to locate examination centers 
in all the proposed towns or most of the towns, action shall 
be taken by the commissioner General of Examinations to 
conduct the examination strictly in colombo. the relevant 
section of the application should be filled by referring to 
the table of towns and town numbers given below. the 
town/towns applied for shall not be allowed to change 
subsequently.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0 (i) this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.
 (ii) the rules and regulations for applicants 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates shall be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
- General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
4.0 Qualifications.– Officers who are appointed to Grade 
III of Development Service, Officers already absorbed in to 
the development Officers’ Service and the officers who are 
not absorbed into Development Officers’ Service but have 
expressed their consent to be absorbed are eligible to appear 
for this examination.
Note:- Provisions in respect of the applicants in 
Provincial Development Officers’ Service 
shall be issued by relevant Provincial Public 
Service commission in line with this Gazette 
notification. For the convenience of separating 
the applications of the officers in public 
officers in each provincial public service and 
officers in other institutions who apply for 
this examination, the code number should be 
entered when indicating the relevant service 
or institution in the title of the application. 
Accordingly, the Code number of the 
officers in the Combined Services is 10. 
this number should be indicated at top right 
corner of the application where the words 
“service station you belong” are indicated. 
(the responsibility is not taken for the 
issues caused by the Non submission of the 
correct number)
5.0 the application should be in accordance with 
the specimen appended to this notification and should be 
prepared by the candidate him/her self. applications should 
be sent by registered post through the respective Head of 
department to reach the Commissioner - General of 
Examinations, Organizations (Institution and foreign 
Examination) branch, Department of Examinations, 
P.O. 1503, Colombo on or before 27th of may 2019. the 
name of the examination should be indicated at the top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
applications received after the closing date and incomplete 
applications shall be rejected.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1363
6.0 Identity of the applicants.–  applicants shall be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For 
this purpose, one of the following identity cards should be 
submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card,
 (ii) a valid Passport,
 (iii) a valid driving license.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the 
above-mentioned identity cards may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner - General of Examinations. 
all applicants are bound to comply with the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination with regard to conducting of this examination. 
Further, applicants shall be subjected to the punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for 
violation of those rules and regulations,
7.0 i. Applications.– applications should be prepared 
in a paper of a4 size in such a manner that Para nos. 1.0 
to 6.0 appear on the first page and the other paragraphs on 
the other pages. the application could be typewritten, but 
it should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's 
own handwriting. application should strictly conform to the 
specimen appended and candidates are advised to send one 
application and not to send photocopies of the application. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen and that 
have not been perfected properly shall be rejected without 
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing 
in the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala 
and tamil application forms. it is the responsibility of the 
applicant to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/her complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and the application is perfected including 
all the particulars and further it would be advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the completed application form.
ii. Penalty for furnishing false information.– application 
should be perfected very carefully with correct information. 
if a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/ her 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, 
during or after the examination.
iii. Officers appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination 
or for more than one subject and Rs. 250/= for one subject 
should be paid at any post office/ sub post office island-wide 
or any Divisional or District Secretariat office to be credited 
to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations. the receipt obtained thus to the name 
of candidate should be affixed to the relevant cage of the 
applications form. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with the candidate. it is kindly informed that no fee 
shall be charged in addition to the examination fee. under no 
circumstances the examination fee shall be refunded. it shall 
not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination 
in favor of another. Further, stamps or money orders are not 
accepted for examination fees.
8.0 the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to the 
officers who have sent the applications on or before the 
closing date, on the supposition that only those who possess 
the qualifications indicated in the Gazette notification have 
applied. A notification will be published in newspapers and 
website of the department as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be 
advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling 
the department of Examinations stating your full name, 
address, National identity card number and name of the 
examination along with the copy of the application form. 
in case of applicants outside colombo, letter of request 
furnishing the above particulars and a fax number to which 
a copy of the admission card is to be sent should be sent 
to the department of Examinations through fax. candidates 
should get their signature on the admission card attested in 
advance and surrender to the supervisor of the examination 
hall.
Note:- issuance of an admission card to an applicant does 
not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
9.0 the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been attested by 
the Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him.
10.0 the admission card in which the signature has 
been attested should be produced to the supervisor of the 
examination center on the first day of the examination.
11.0 the Heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling 
them to appear for the examination. No traveling expenses 
shall be paid.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1364
12.0 the examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English languages. candidates can sit for the examination 
in the language medium in which they sat for the entry 
examination to the relevant service or in an official language. 
in case of candidates who entered the service without a 
competitive Examination can sit for the examination in 
the language medium of their education or in an official 
language. the language medium of examination applied for 
shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
13.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at 
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should 
score at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated 
for each subject for a pass. (For further details, refer para - 
10 of Development Officers’ Service minute.)
14.0 For the purpose of the official language policy, all 
officers should prepare and fill the application forms in the 
official language.
15.0 the commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue the results of all the applicants, who sit for 
the examination, to the director General of combined 
Services, Ministry of Public administration and disaster 
Management. the names of the applicants, who have 
passed the examination, shall be published in the web 
site of the Ministry of Public administration and disaster 
Management.
16.0 examination Procedure.– applicants should sit for 
a written examination, which shall consist of the following 
subjects.
Subject Marks Duration Subject 
No.
1. Office Systems 100 01 Hrs 01
2. accounting Systems 100 01 Hr 02
3. computer test 100 02 Hrs 03
 16.1  Office Systems.– this paper is designed to test 
the candidate’s knowledge on office systems 
adopted in government offices and practical 
use of that knowledge, proper understanding of 
official documents and the ability of presenting 
the ideas/ observations in clear and brief minutes 
and the ability of drafting a letter according to an 
order given to the officer.
  (this paper consists of structured, semi 
structured and essay type questions. all the 
questions should be answered).
 16.2 Accounting Systems.– it is expected to test 
candidate’s knowledge in basic accounts 
adopted in government office, functions of cash 
control books.
  (this paper consists of structured and semi 
structured questions. all the questions should be 
answered)
 16.3 (i) Basic concepts of information technology
  (ii) windows operating System
  (iii) File Management
  (iv) word Processing  
   Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing 
texts, aligning text, fonts and attributes, 
indenting paragraphs, change of line 
spacing, Tab setting, finding and replacing 
text, spelling and grammar, thesaurus, 
working with columns, page setup, printing 
documents, creating tables. Sorting texts, 
file management, mail merging, working 
with macros.
  (v) Spreadsheets
   Basic skills, formatting, editing, columns 
and ranges, insertion and deletion, Sorting 
data, creating charts, printing, @ function, 
working with macros, file management.
  (vi) database 
   Basic skills of introduction
   creating and using a database
   Forms
   linked forms, popup forms
   dialog and message boxes
   Queries
   Sorting
   obtaining reports
   w orking with macro
  (vii) Presentation/ illustration
   Basic skills, editing, formatting
   applying designs, clip art and graphs, 
inserting images slide transition and effects, 
animations using presentation tools, 
preparing masters, printing slides and 
notes
  (viii) internet
   introduction to internet, w orld wide web, 
How to Navigate, practical internet.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1365
  (ix)  E-mail
   introduction, basic skills, receiving e-mails, sending e- mails, replying, using attachments, creating and 
using nick names, composing messages
   (this paper consists of multiple choice questions, structured and semi structured type questions. all the 
questions should be answered)
17.0 This examination notification will be published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. any matter not referred to herein shall be determined by the 
director General of combined Services.
 K. V . P. M. J. gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
Ministry of Public administration and disaster Management,
independence Square, 
colombo 07, 
09th of april 2019.
 (For Office use Only)
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN FoRM
First eFFiciency Bar examination oF DeveLopment oFFicers’ service- 2015 (ii) 2019
(Only the officers in Class III of Development Officers’ Service, who belong to Combined Services and officers who 
have exercised their option to be absorbed into Development Officers’ Service are eligible to apply as per this
examination notification)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(indicate the town in which you intend to sit the 
examination according to your preference as per 
Section 2.0 of the Gazette notification) (This cannot be 
altered subsequently)
1.0 1.1  Name in Full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (eg. : HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN KuMaRa  GuNawaRdHaNa) 
 1.2  Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :––––––––––––. 
   (eg. : GuNawaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K ) 
 1.3  Name in Full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0 Place of work and address :
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3.0  Gender :  Female  - 1
     Male  - 0
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0  N.i.c No. : 
the service to which you belong
(Please refer the note of para 4.0 of the Gazette
Notification carefully before filling this section)
language medium of examination :
 Sinhala  - 2 
 t amil  - 3 
 English  - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the box)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1366
5.0  Subject/s to which you sit for:
Subject Subject No.
6.0 telephone No. : 
  Mobile :
  Fixed :
7.0  Present Post :
 7.1 Post :––––––––––––.
 7.2 Number of the letter of appointment: cS/doS/                       
:––––––––––––.
 Note - The Appointment No. of the officers who 
have already absorbed in to the development 
Officers’ Service begins with code CS/DOS/A/ 
officers who have exercised their option to be 
absorbed into Development Officers’ Service 
the code begins with code cS/doS/absorb.
 7.3 date of appointment to class iii of development 
Officers’ Service/ Date of exercising the option to 
be absorbed in to the Development Officers’ Service 
:––––––––––––.
8.0 8.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time? 
:––––––––––––. 
 8.2 if not, examination fees paid :––––––––––––.
 8.3 Post office/ sub post office island-wide or any 
Divisional/ District Secretariat office :––––––––––.
 8.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
 8.5 date :––––––––––––.
One edge of the receipt should be affixed so as not to be 
detached (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
9.0  Certification of the Applicant :
i declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the 
examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/ the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. ...................... to the Post office/ sub post office 
island-wide or any Divisional/ District Secretariat office 
........................ on .................... is affixed above. I hereby 
agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examination for the purpose of 
conducting and decisions made with regard to issuing the 
results of the examination and all the provisions of the 
Examination act.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Note: - candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of his/her respective Head of department 
or an officer assigned to sign on behalf of him.
Attestation of Signature
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................... 
who is an  employee of my office and who is personally 
known to me placed his/her signature in my presence on 
....................... Since he/she is sitting for the examination 
for the first time it is advisable to exempt him/ her from the 
examination fee/ has paid the examination fee and the receipt 
has been affixed.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official stamp 
  of the Person attesting.
Name :––––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––.  
date :––––––––––––.
10.0   Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that,
 (i) The information furnished above were verified 
and,
 (ii) The officer belongs to the Combined Service/ 
have exercised their option to be absorbed in to 
Development Officers Service,
 (iii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the 
examination previously,
 (iv) The officer has appeared for the examination 
previously and *he/she has affixed the receipt of 
the fees for the relevant examination,
 (v) * He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
  * (Delete inapplicable words).
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the department.
Name :––––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––––. 
04–921

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1367
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION 
AND DISASTER mANAGEmENT
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination of the 
Development Officers’ Service - 2017 (11) 2019
1.0 it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for the officers in Grade II of Development Officers’ 
Service shall be held by the commissioner - General of 
Examinations in the month of august 2019 as per provisions 
of Para 10 of the approved service minute of development 
Officers’ Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary of 
the democratic Socialists Republic of Sri lanka bearing 
No 1745/11 dated 14.02.2012 revised by the Gazette 
Extraordinary of the democratic Socialists Republic of Sri 
lanka bearing No 1774/31 dated 07.09.2012.
2.0 This examination for officers in Grade II of the 
Development Officers’ Service shall be held in Colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, 
trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, 
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. the list of relevant 
towns and town numbers are given below. the commissioner 
- General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel any 
center due to insufficiency of applicants or, any other reason 
and direct the applicants to an examination center located at 
the town of the applicant’s second preference of towns or a 
nearby town. Further, if a sufficient number of applicants 
have not applied to locate examination centers in all the 
proposed towns or most of the towns, action shall be taken 
by the commissioner General of Examinations to conduct 
the examination strictly in colombo. the relevant section 
of the application should be filled by referring to the table 
of towns and town numbers given below. the town/towns 
applied for shall not be allowed to change subsequently.
Town Town No.
colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
3.0 (i) this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.
 (ii) the rules and regulations for applicants 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates shall be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
- General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
4.0 Qualifications.– Following officers, who have been 
confirmed in the service after completing the first efficiency 
bar examination with 10 years of active and satisfactory 
service period are eligible to sit for this examination.
 (i) Officers who have been absorbed to Development 
Officers' service of the Combined Service. 
 (ii) Officers who have still not been absorbed to the 
Development Officers' Service but exercised 
their option for absorption of the comibned 
service.
Note:- Provisions in respect of the applicants in 
Provincial Development Officers’ Service 
shall be issued by relevant Provincial 
Public Service commission in line with this 
Gazette notification. For the convenience of 
separating the applications of the officers 
in public officers in each provincial public 
service and officers in other institutions who 
apply for this examination, the code number 
should be entered when indicating the 
relevant service or institution in the title of the 
application. Accordingly, the Code number 
of the officers in the Combined Services 
is 10. this number should be indicated at 
top right corner of the application where 
the words “service station you belong” are 
indicated (the responsibility is not taken for 
the issues caused by the Non submission of 
the correct number).
5.0 the application should be in accordance with 
the specimen appended to this notification and should be 
prepared by the candidate him/her self. applications should 
be sent by registered post through the respective Head of 
department to reach the Commissioner - General of 
Examinations, Organizations (Institution and foreign 
Examination) branch, Department of Examinations, 
P.O. 1503, Colombo on or before 27th of May, 2019. the 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1368
name of the examination should be indicated at the top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
applications received after the closing date and incomplete 
applications shall be rejected.
6.0 Identity of the applicants.–  applicants shall be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For 
this purpose, one of the following identity cards should be 
submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card
 (ii) a valid Passport
 (iii) a valid driving license.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the 
above-mentioned identity cards may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner - General of Examinations. 
all applicants are bound to comply with the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examination with regard to conducting of this examination. 
Further, applicants shall be subjected to the punishment 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations for 
violation of those rules and regulations,
7.0 i. Applications.– applications should be prepared 
in a paper of a4 size in such a manner that Para nos. 1.0 
to 6.0 appear on the First page and the other paragraphs on 
the other pages. the application could be typewritten, but 
it should be Filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's 
own handwriting. application should strictly conform to the 
specimen appended and candidates are advised to send one 
application and not to send photocopies of the application. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen and that 
have not been perfected properly shall be rejected without 
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing 
in the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala 
and tamil application forms. it is the responsibility of the 
applicant to make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/her complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and the application is perfected including 
all the particulars and further it would be advisable to keep 
a photocopy of the completed application form.
ii. Penalty for furnishing false information.– application 
should be perfected very carefully with correct information. 
if a candidate is found to be ineligible in accordance with 
the rules and regulations of this examination, his/ her 
candidature is liable to be cancelled at any state prior to, 
during or after the examination.
iii. Officers appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sittings, Rs. 500/= for the whole examination 
or for more than one subject and Rs. 250/= for one subject 
should be paid at any post office/ sub post office island-wide 
should be paid at any post office/ sub post office island-wide 
or any Divisional or District Secretariat office to be credited 
to revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations. the receipt obtained thus to the name 
of candidate should be affixed to the relevant cage of the 
applications form. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with the candidate. it is kindly informed that no fee 
shall be charged in addition to the examination fee. under no 
circumstances the examination fee shall be refunded. it shall 
not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination 
in favor of another. Further, stamps or money orders are not 
accepted for examination fees.
8.0 the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to the 
officers who have sent the applications on or before the 
closing date, on the supposition that only those who possess 
the qualifications indicated in the Gazette notification have 
applied. A notification will be published in newspapers and 
website of the department as soon as the admission cards 
are issued to the candidates. if the admission card is not 
received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of Examinations 
in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be 
advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling 
the department of Examinations stating your full name, 
address, national identity card number and name of the 
examination along with the copy of the application form. 
in case of applicants outside colombo, letter of request 
furnishing the above particulars and a fax number to which 
a copy of the admission card is to be sent should be sent 
to the department of Examinations through fax. candidates 
should get their signature on the admission card attested in 
advance and surrender to the supervisor of the examination 
hall.
Note.– issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
does not necessarily mean that he/she has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit for the examination.
9.0 the signature of the applicant placed on the 
application and admission card shall have been attested by 
the Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him.
10.0 the admission card in which the signature has 
been attested should be produced to the supervisor of the 
examination center on the first day of the examination.
11.0 the Heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been issued 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1369
by the commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear for the examination. No travelling expenses shall 
be paid.
12.0  the examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil and English languages. candidates can sit for the examination 
in the language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the relevant service or in an official language. In 
case of candidates who entered the service without a competitive Examination can sit for the examination in the language 
medium of their education or in an official language. The language medium of examination applied for shall not be allowed 
to change sub sequently.
13.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject at different occasions at their discretion. However, they 
should score at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass. (For further details, refer 
para - 10 of Development Officers’ Service minute.)
14.0  For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers should prepare and fill the application forms in the 
official language.
15.0 the commissioner General of Examinations shall issue the results of all the applicants who sit for the 
examination, to the director General of combined Services, Ministry of Public administration and disaster Management. 
the names of the applicants, who have passed the examination, shall be published in the web site of the Ministry of Public 
administration and disaster Management.
16.0 examination Procedure.– applicants should sit for a written examination, which shall consist of the following 
subjects :
Subject Marks Duration Subject No.
1. Establishment code and Procedural Rules 100 02 Hr 01
2. Financial Regulations and Procurement Procedure of Government 100 02 Hr 02
(Part i of the above question papers shall consist of structured questions. all the questions should be answered. Part 
ii shall consist of 08 essay type questions. only 04 questions should be answered)
16.1  Establishment code and Procedural Rules 
  chapter Vi, Vii, Viii, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XVii, XXiV , XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXiii, XlVii, 
XlViii and Procedural Rules of Public Service commission.
16.2  Financial Regulations and Procurement Procedure of Government
  chapters i, ii, iii, iV , V and procurement procedure of the Government.
17.0 This examination notification will be published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. any matter not referred to herein shall be determined by the 
director General of combined Services.
 K. V . P. M. J. gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
Ministry of Public administration and disaster Management,
independence Square, 
colombo 07, 
09th of april 2019.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1370
 (For Office use Only)
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN FoRM
seconD eFFiciency Bar examination oF DeveLopment oFFicers’ service- 2017 (ii) 2019
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(indicate the town in which you intend to sit the 
examination according to your preference as per 
Section 2.0 of the Gazette notification) (This cannot be 
altered subsequently)
1.0 1.1  Name in Full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (e.g : HERatH  MudiyaNSElaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa   GuNawaRdHaNa) 
 1.2  Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :––––––––––––. 
   (e.g. : GuNawaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K ) 
 1.3  Name in Full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0  Place of work and address :
 2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
 2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
3.0   Gender :  Female  - 1
     Male  - 0
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0   N.i.c No. : 
5.0   Subject/s to which you appear :
Subject Subject No.
6.0  telephone No. : 
  Mobile :
  Fixed :
7.0   Present Post :
 7.1 Post :––––––––––––.
 7.2 Number of the letter of appointment: cS/doS/ ––––––––––––.
 Note - The Appointment No. of the officers who have already absorbed in to the Development Officers’ Service begins 
with code, CS/DOS/A officers who have exercised their option to be absorbed into Development Officers’ 
Service the code begins with code cS/doS/absorb.
the service to which you belong
(Please refer the note of para 4.0 of the Gazette
Notification carefully before filling this section)
language medium of examination :
 Sinhala  - 2 
 t amil  - 3 
 English  - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the box)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1371
 7.3 date of absorption in to Grade ii/iii of development 
Officers' Service :––––––––––––.
 7.4 date of exercising the option to be absorbed in to the 
Development Officers' Service :––––––––––––.
8.0 8.1 Are you sitting for the examination for the first 
time? :––––––––––––. 
 8.2 if not, examination fees paid :––––––––––––.
 8.3 Post office/ sub post office island-wide or any 
Divisional/ District Secretariat office :––––––––––.
 8.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
 8.5 date :––––––––––––.
The receipt should be affixed so as not to be 
detached (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of 
the receipt)
9.0  Certification of the Applicant :
i declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the 
examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/ the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. ...................... to the Post office/ sub post office 
island-wide or any Divisional/District Secretariat office 
........................ on .................... is affixed above. I hereby 
agree to abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examination for the purpose of 
making the decisions on conducting the examination and 
issuing the results and all the provisions of the Examination 
act.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
Note: - candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of his/her respective Head of department 
or an officer assigned to sign on behalf of him.
Attestation of Signature
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... who is an  
employee of my office and who is personally known to me 
placed his/her signature in my presence on ....................... 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature and official stamp 
  of the Person attesting.
Name :––––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––.  
date :––––––––––––.
10.0   Certificate of the Head of the Department :
i certify that,
 (i) The information furnished above were verified 
and,
 (ii) The officer* belongs to the Combined Service/ 
has exercised his/her option to be absorbed in to 
Development Officers’ Service,
 (iii) The officer* is eligible to appear for this 
examination.
  * (Delete inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the department.
Name :––––––––––––. 
designation :––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––. 
date :––––––––––––. 
04–922
–––––––––––––––
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT Of mANAGEmENT 
ASSISTANT NON-TEChNICAL SECTION 
2 POST (COmPANy INSPECTOR) IN ThE 
DEPARTmENT Of ThE REGISTRAR Of 
COmPANIES - 2019
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the suitable Sri lankan 
citizens under 2nd paragraph to fill eight vacancies existing 
in the post of Management assistant Non technical               
Section - 2 (company inspector) in the department of the 
Registrar of companies. the examination will be held in 
colombo in august 2019.
1. Mode of Recruitment.–  Candidates who fulfill the 
following qualifications laid down in the notification will 
be recruited depending on the total marks obtained from the 
written examination and a structural interview. candidates 
with the highest marks will be selected to fill vacancies by 
the Registrar General of companies in accordance with the 
merit of total marks.
2. Required Qualification :
2-1. Having obtained a degree from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1372
 2-2.  Physical Requirements :
  Every applicant should be physically and 
mentally fit to perform duties of the post and to 
serve any part of the island
 2-3.  Other Qualifications:
 (i) Must be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 (ii) Must have an excellent character.
 (iii) Must have fulfilled the qualifications for 
the requirement to the post at the closing 
date due for applications.
3. Terms and Conditions of employment :
 (i) This post is permanent and you will be subjected 
to the policy decision taken by the Government 
in the future regarding the pensions entitled to 
you.
 (ii) The appointment is subjected to a probationary 
period of 03 years and employees’ category in 
the department of the Registrar of companies 
(Companies Inspector) should pass the first 
Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years from 
the date of appointment.
 (iii) in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 the successful 
candidates should obtain the relevant proficiency 
in the official language other than the official 
language through which they joined the 
public service within a period of 5 years from 
recruitment to the post and those who join the 
public service in the medium of language which 
is not an official language, should obtain the 
required official language proficiency within the 
probationary period.
 (iv) This appointment is subject to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, the 
Establishment code of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka, Financial Regulations 
of the Government and other departmental 
Regulations.
4. Age Limit.– Not less than 21 years of age and 
not more than 35 years as at the closing date of calling  
applications.
5. Salary Scale.– Rs. 31,490/- 10 x 445 - 11 x 660 - 10 x 730 
- 5 x 750 - Rs. 54,250/- monthly salaries will be paid for the 
post (Public administrative circulars No. 06/2016 and 
Salary code MN - 04-2016)
6. Written examination :
 (i) this examination will be held in colombo in 
august 2019 by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on behalf of the Registrar General 
of companies.
 (ii) this examination will be in three languages. 
(Sinhala, tamil & English).
 (iii) applicants can answer to the questions papers in 
one selected language. they are not allowed to 
change the medium after applying.
 (iv) details of the written test are given here after.
Subject 
No. Subject Duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
01 language 
Proficiency 2 hours 100 40%
02 aptitude 
test 1 hour 100 40%
01. Language Proficiency :
 this paper will comprise with questions 
to measure candidate’s ability of language 
expression of views, comprehension, spelling, 
composition & letter drafting. the language 
familiarity with chart, diagrams and graphic and 
also precis writing and simple grammar will be 
tested.
02. Aptitude Test :
 ability of to solve statistical and mathematical 
expressions, rational thinking with general 
knowledge. this paper will also include multiple 
choice questions and short answers are expected.
7. Selection Criteria :
 (i) Eligible candidates shall be directed for the written 
text and it is compulsory to obtain a maximum 
40% for each question paper and interview called 
from the maximum marks in descending order 
considering vacancies to be filled.
 (ii) the interview panel which will be appointed by 
the Registrar General of companies shall check 
and interview whatever required qualifications 
shall comply with the notification. No marks shall 
be given for the performance at the interview.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1373
8. Method of Application :
 (i) applications should be prepared in “8 1/2 x 
12” (A4) papers and as items 01-05 in the first 
page and the rest items in the second and third 
pages respectively. the name of the examination 
specified under the heading of the specimen shall 
be entered in English language in addition to the 
Sinhala language in the application of Sinhala 
Medium and in English language apart from 
tamil in tamil Medium. the applications which 
are not conformed to the prescribed specimen 
will be rejected. If any of the particulars furnished 
by you are found to be false of incorrect, your 
candidature will be cancelled without informing. 
Please keep a photocopy of the application for 
future reference.
 (ii) The application should be clearly filled by his / 
her own hand writing.
 (iii) Duly filled applications should be sent under 
the registered post to reach the commissioner 
General Examinations, (organization and 
Foreign Examinations Branch) P.o.Box 1503, 
department of Examinations, colombo on or 
before 24.05.2019. applications received after 
the closing date will be rejected. On the top 
left hand comer of the envelope containing the 
application should mention the post applied such 
“Recruitment of Management assistant Non- 
technical-Section 2 post in the department of the 
Registrar of companies”.
 (iv) The officers in the Public Service and Provincial 
Public Service should have attested. other 
candidates signature in the application form 
and should have been attested by a principal 
of a Government School, Grama Niladhari of 
the division, a Justice of Peace, commissioner 
of oaths, attorney-at-law, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces and 
an Officer holding a staff grade post in the Public 
Service.
 (v) applications which are delayed, incomplete and 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen 
will be rejected without notice.
 (vi) the commissioner General Examinations will 
issue admission cards to the candidates who 
have sent their application which have been 
duly perfected with the language medium of 
examination, with signature of the applicant and 
attestation of the signature certification of the 
Head of the department.
 (vii)  a notice shall be published in the newspapers 
in the official website of the Department of 
Examinations, Sri lanka as soon as admission 
cards are issued to applicants, if the admission 
card is not received by an applicant even alter 2 
or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall be 
taken to inform the department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. the candidate shall communicate 
with the department of Examination mentioning 
the full name, address, national identity card 
number and name of the examination applied 
for. in case of the applicants outside colombo, 
a letter of request containing the above details 
with a fax number shall be sent to the fax number 
mentioned in the notification in order to send a 
copy of the admission card. it would be advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the completed application 
form, a copy of the receipt obtained by payment 
of the examination fee (if applicable) and the 
receipt obtained when posting the application at 
your possession in order to prove any particulars 
requested by the department of Examinations.
9. Sitting for examination :
 (i) this examination is conducted by the 
commissioner General Examinations and all 
candidates shall be required to abide by rules 
and regulations laid down by him with regard to 
the same. Rules and regulations for applicants 
published at the beginning of paragraph in part of 
this Gazette shall be submitted to the supervisor of 
the examination. a candidate who does not submit 
the admission card shall not be allowed to sit for 
the examination.
 (ii) a candidate must be sat for the examination in 
the hall allocated to him/her. Every candidate 
must handover his/her admission card to the 
examiners on the first day of the examination 
before the commencement. all candidates are 
bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the examinations act.
Note.– issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit for the examination.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1374
10. examination Fee.– Examination fee is Rs.600/-. the 
fee can be paid at any post office / sub post office or District 
/ divisional Secretariat in the island. the examination 
fee to be credited to the revenue head 20-03-02 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations before the closing 
date of applications. The receipt obtained shall be affixed 
in the relevant cage so as not to be detached. Keeping a 
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate will be useful.
Note: under no circumstances the fee will be full or 
part refunded. the fee paid for this examination 
shall not be allowed to transfer in respect of any 
other examination.
11. Identity of the Candidate.– candidates shall be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall to 
the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
any of the following documents shall be permitted for this 
purpose.
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a valid Passport,
 (iii) a valid driving license.
12. Furnishing false Particulars.– if any of the particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before 
the recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. in case 
of such falsehood or error is detected after the recruitment, 
action will be taken to discontinue your service, subject to 
relevant disciplinary actions being taken.
13. the Public Service commission shall receive rights 
and authority for any other aspect which is not mentioned 
herein.
14. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala Text 
shall prevail.
By order of the Public Service commission,
Registrar General of companies,
the department of the Registrar of companies,
No 400,
D. R. Wijewardhana Mawatha,
colombo 10.
 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
of management Assistant Non- Technical Section 
2 Post (Company Inspector) in the Department of 
the Registrar of Companies - 2019
Medium of Examination:
 Sinhala  - 2 
 t amil  - 3 
 English  - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Medium of examination cannot be changed.
 
01. 1.1  Name in full (in English Block letters): Mr./Mrs./
Miss :–––––––––––.
  (ex.: HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE BuddHiKa  
SaMPatH KuMaRa GuNawaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with last name at the beginning and initials 
of other names at the end (in Block letters) :––––.
  (ex.: GuNawaRdHaNa, H. M. B. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
  (Sinhala/t amil)
02. 2.1  Permanent address (in Block letters) :––––––––.
 2.2 Permanent address (in Block letters) :––––––––.
 2.3 Mobile Phone No. :–––––––––––.
 2.4 National identity card No. : 
03. 3.1 Sex:  
  Male  - 0  
  Female  - 1
 3.2 Marital Status:
  unmarried - 1 Married - 2
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. 4.1 date of Birth:
  y ear  Month  date
 4.2 age as at 24.05.2019:
   y ears  Months  days
05. 5.1  are you a citizen of Sri lanka :–––––––––––.
  (By descent or by registration)
 5.2 Ethnicity :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'04'26
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.04.2019
1375
06. 6.1 Particulars of G. c. E. (o/l) Examination :
 i. (i) State the year and month of examination 
passed :–––––––––––.
  (ii) index number of the applicant :–––––––––––.
Subject Results
 ii. Particulars of G. c. E. (a/l) Examination only if 
relevant :
  (i) State the year and month of examination 
passed :–––––––––––.
  (ii) index number of the applicant :–––––––––––.
Subject Results
 III. Basic degree qualification :
  (i) degree :–––––––––––.
  (ii) Subjects :–––––––––––.
  (iii) Date qualified for the degree :–––––––––––.
  (iv) university :–––––––––––.
 6.2 Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
  (ex. : computer literacy/tamil -English language 
proficiency)
 6.3 Professional qualifications relevant to the field till 
24.05.2019 : 
  y ears :––––––. Months :––––––. days :––––––.
07. if the candidate had been terminated or vacated the post 
at a Government department:
08. 8.1  if found quality by a court of law for a criminal 
offence :–––––––––––.
 8.2 the details of the offence and the punishment 
given :–––––––––––.
09.  details of the examination fee:
 9.1 Name of the office :–––––––––––. 
 9.2 Receipt No. and date  :–––––––––––. 
 9.3 amount : 
Please attach the receipt of examination fee so as not to be 
detached. it is advisable to retain a photocopy of the receipt.
10.  declaration by the applicant:
i declare that the foregoing particulars for herein to and to 
and accurate to the best of my knowledge, the receipt number 
.............. dated .................... relating to the examination fee 
is pasted. i will hereby abide by any decision taken before, 
during or after the examination, if I am deemed not qualified 
to sit for the exam in accordance with rules and regulations 
relating to the conducting of the examination, further i will 
abide by all rules and regulations stipulated concerning the 
conducting of the examination.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
11. Certification of the signature:
this is to certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... 
Submitting the application on ............................. placed 
his/her signature before me and that he/she has pasted the 
receipt on the application after paying the examination fee.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
12. Recommendation by the Head of department/institution :
i do here by certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................... 
summiting the application is employed in this institution as a 
.............................. (post) and that, necessary actions will be 
taken to release him/her from the service of this institution 
if he/she is selected for the above post.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the institution.
date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
04–1112
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.