

<!-- page 1 -->

SOCIAL SECURITY BOARD (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No.  33  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 7th October, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Social Security Board (Amendment)
 Act, No. 33 of 1999
General
amendment of
Act, No. 17 of
1996 and other
written law.
Short title.
H - 022545
[Certified on 07 th October, 1999]
L.D.–O.54/98.
A N  ACT   TO  AMEND  THE  SOCIAL  SECURITY  BOARD
A CT , NO . 17 OF  1996
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-
1. This Act may be cited as the Social Security Board
(Amendment) Act, No.33 of 1999.
2. Wherever in the Social Security Board Act, No. 17 of
1996 (hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”)
or in any other written law or in any notice, communication,
form or other document issued, made, required, or authorised
by or under the principal enactment or such other written
law, the expression “ Social Security Board” occurs, there
shall be substitued the expression “the Sri Lanka Social
Security Board”
3. Section 3 of the Principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and the
substitution of the following subsection therefor :-
“(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the Directors as
the Chairman of the Board, and may appoint another
Director to be a working Director of the Board.”
4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following section substituted therefor :-
“ (4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the
functions of the Board shall be to establish a Pension and
Social Security Benefit Scheme (hereinafter referred to as
“the Scheme”) for self employed persons other than those
in the fisheries and agriculture sectors, and to administer
and manage such scheme with the following objectives in
view:-
(a) to provide social security to self employed
persons during their old  age and  on  disability ;
Amendment of
section 3 of the
principal
enactment.
Replacement of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Social Security Board (Amendment)
 Act, No. 33 of 1999
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
(b) to provide relief to the dependants of self
employed persons, upon death ;
(c) to encourage self employed persons to continue
in their respective occupations and to develop
their capabilities and skills;
(d) to encourage youth to be self employed and to
develop their capabilities and skills;
(e) to educate self employed persons on the benefits
of thrift and resource management; and
(f)to improve the living standards of self employed
persons generally.”.
5. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the insertion immediately after paragraph (f) of that section
of the following new paragraph :-
“ (ff) collaborate with state institutions or non-
governmental organizations discharging functions similar
to the functions of the Board ;”
6. The following new section is hereby inserted
immedialtey after section 6 and shall have effect as section
6
A  of the principal enactment.
6A . (1) The Minister shall appoint a
Technical Advisory Committee (hereinafter
refferred to as “the Committee”) consisting of
not more than nine persons, from among
persons who, in the opinion of the Minister
have had experience, or shown capacity, in the
fields of social security, social welfare,
insurance, actuarial evaluation, administration,
finance or management.
(2) The Chairman of the Board shall be the
Chairman of the Committee.
Insertion of new
section 6
A   in the
principal
enactment
“Technical
Advisory
Committee.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Social Security Board (Amendment)
 Act, No. 33 of 1999
Amendment of
section 9 of the
principal
enactment.
 (3) The functions of the Committee shall
be -
(a) to advise the Board on such matters relating
to the administration and management of the
scheme as may, from time to time, be referred
to it by the Board;
(b) to advise the Board on any matter the
Committee deems necessary or
conducive to the attainment of the
objectives towards the attainment of which
the scheme is being administered and
managed; and
(c) to advise the Board with regard to the making
of rules by the Board.
 (4)  The members of the Committee may be paid
such remuneration as may be determined by the Board,
subject to the approval of the Minister, from the Fund of
the Board.’.
7. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) in subsection (1) of the section, by the substitution,
for the words “a contributor shall be entitled”, of the
words “a contributor shall, subject to the provisions
of subsection (1A), be entitled”; and
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section of the following subsection:-
“ (1
A ) A contributor who is certified, by a Medical
Practitioner registered under the Medical Ordinance, to be
mentally retarded and who has commenced to contribute
to the Fund before reaching the age of thirty five years
shall be entitled to a pension on reaching the age of forty
years”.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Social Security Board (Amendment)
 Act, No. 33 of 1999
8. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words “be paid to his surviving
spouse”, of the words “be paid to such person or persons as
may have been nominated by him  in the prescribed form and
deposited with the Board, and in lieu of such nomination, be
paid to his surviving spouse”.
9. Section 21 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c) of
subsection (2), of that section, of the following new
paragraph:-
“ (cc) all such sums of money as may be
transferred to the Board by any, Government
Department, or Public Corporation ;”; and
(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3) of
that section, of the following new subsections:-
“ (4) The initial  capital of the Board shall be one
hundred million rupees which may be increased
from time to time, by such amounts as may be
authorised by an Appropriation Act or by resolution
of Parliament. The amount of such capital shall be
paid out of the Consolidated Fund in such
instalments as the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance may, in consultation with the Minister
determine, and such sums shall be credited to the
Fund.
(5) From and after the inclusion of the Board
under section 8 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28
of 1979, the profits and income of the Board shall
be exempt from income tax”.
Amendment of
section 13 of
the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 21 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Social Security Board (Amendment)
 Act, No. 33 of 1999
10. The following section is hereby inserted immediately
after section 28, and shall have effect as section 28A  of the
principal enactment:-
28A . (1) The Minister may give the Board
general directions as to the exercise of the
powers and discharge of the functions, of the
Board, and it shall be the duty of the Board to
give effect to every such direction.
(2) The Minister may direct the Board, in
writing, to furnish him with such information
with respect to the discharge of the functions
of the Board as may be specified in such writing
and it shall be the duty of the Board to give
effect to every such direction”.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Insertion of new
section 28
A  in
the Principal
enactment.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
“Power of
Minister
to give
directions

<!-- page 7 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of  the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.