

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.02.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1901$9 - 2015 fmnrjdß ui 10 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2015'02'10
No. 1901/9  - TUESDAY ,  FEBRUARY  10,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI   LANKA   COUNCIL   OF   ARCHAEOLOGISTS    ACT   No.  04  OF 1992   (INCORPORATED)
THE set of Rules made under the title Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 854/6
of Tuesday, 17th January, 1995 under Section 06(01) of the Council of Archaeologists of Sri Lanka  Act No. 04 of 1992 is hereby
repealed as per order of the Council and the new Rules prepared under the title  The Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists are
enacted.
                                                                                                   By order of the Council
Professor G
AMINI ADHIKARI,
President,
Board of Governors,
Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists
Department of Archaeology,
Colombo 07,
10th February 2015.
Sri  Lanka Council of Archaeologists  New  Constitution made in terms of Section 6(1) of the Act
01. (a) Any person who has passed the qualifying examinations prescribed in Schedule Two of this Constitution or in
any other examination or examinations approved by a two thirds majority of the Council as those to be
completed by candidates for eligibility for enrolment as an Associate Member of the Council, shall be enrolled
by the  Board of Governors (hereinafter referred to as the Board) as an Associate Member.
(b) Any person who has obtained a Post Graduate Degree in Archaeology from a recognized university or an
institute and possesses two years’ experience as a professional Archaeologist in a suitable state or private
institute shall be  enrolled by the Board as a Member of the Council.
(c) Any person who has held membership of the Council for a period   of more than ten years shall be enrolled by
the Board as a Fellow Member.
3—PG 2362

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.02.2015
02. (a) The non-incorporated membership of the Council shall consist of Honorary members, registered members and
student members. They shall have voting rights for their representation.
(b) A person who has rendered a distinguished service to the Council may be enrolled by the Board as an
Honorary Member. However, not more than one Honorary Member shall be enrolled by the Council in a year
and the total number of Honorary Members so enrolled  shall at no time exceed ten.
(c) Any person who has passed the qualifying examinations prescribed in Schedule 2 of this Constitution as such
examinations to be completed in order to become eligible for recruitment as a registered member  of the Council
or who has been practically  and  continuously engaged in a responsible position in the field of Archaeology
for at least ten years in an archaeological organization or the Department of Archaeology or any other local
organization recognized as an equivalent organization by the Council shall be enrolled by the Board as a
registered member.
(d) Any person who has fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in Schedule 2 of this Constitution for enrolment as
a student member or has acquired the internal qualifications recognized by the Board as equivalent qualifications
shall be enrolled by the Board as a student member.
03. (a) An application for membership of any category shall be prepared and submitted in the Application Form
prescribed by the Board from time to time, guaranteed by three incorporated members. If an application is
submitted for enrolment as a Fellow Member, such application shall  be submitted with sponsorship of two
Fellow Members.
(b) A list of Members shall be maintained by the Board.
04. A Certificate of Membership prepared in the format and design prescribed from time to time by the Council shall be
issued to each Member by the Board affixed with the common seal of the Council. Such certificate shall remain the
property of the Council and shall be returned to the Council within seven days of termination of membership if
occurred due to any reason other than the death of the Member concerned.
05. If any Member, having paid all his outstanding contributions and fees, informs the Honorary Secretary in writing
of his intention to resign from membership, his membership shall be terminated.
06. A member whose membership is terminated on account of resignation may be re-enrolled as a new Member by the
Council to the same category of membership held by him at the time of resignation.
07. (a) Admission fees, annual subscriptions and other fees payable shall be as specified in Schedule 1 of this
Constitution.
(a) Any person decided by the Board to be enrolled in any category of membership shall pay his admission fee
and the annual subscription fees for the  relevant year within two months of such enrollment.
(b) Every Member shall pay the annual subscription fee and any annual fee payable by him, if any, prior to the
commencement of the current year. If such dues are not paid by the 1
st of March during  the  year, a reminder
shall be sent to the Member by the Honorary Treasurer. If the dues are not paid by the 1st of June in the current
year, a notice shall be sent to the Member under registered cover by the Honorary Treasurer. If any person
does not pay his outstanding dues within one month of such notice, his membership shall be terminated. Such
person may be re-enrolled as a Member if the Board is convinced that there had been sufficient reasons for
such non-payment of dues.
(c) If any Member is unable to be engaged in his profession or in a productive livelihood due to old age, illness,
incapacity or any other valid  reason, the Board may, by adopting a resolution,  waive such Member’s contribution
fully or partly.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.02.2015
8 (a) The office bearers of the Council shall consist of the following:
i. Honorary President
ii. Honorary immediate past President
iii. Honorary Senior Vice President
iv. Honorary Vice President
v. Honorary Co-Secretaries (Two)
vi. Honorary Treasurer
vii. Honorary Assistant Treasurer
(b) The Committee of the Council shall consist of eleven (11) Members.
The Board of Governors shall consist of the aforesaid Members and the Committee Members.
(c) Only Fellow Members shall be eligible for the offices of Honorary President, Honorary Senior Vice President
and Honorary Vice President.
(d) The Honorary President shall be the person who has held the office of Senior Honorary Vice President at the
end of the previous year. Although such a member may not hold the office of President on more than two
consecutive terms, he may be re-elected to the same office after the expiry of two terms of the Board.
(e) Only an incorporated Member who has served on the Board for at least two  terms of office shall be eligible for
election as the Honorary Senior Vice President. Although such a Member may not hold the office of Honorary
Senior Vice President on more than two consecutive terms, he may be re-elected to the same office after the
expiry of one term of office of the Board.
(f) Only an incorporated Member who has served on the Board  for at least one term of office shall be eligible for
election as the Honorary Vice President. Although such a Member may not hold the office of Honorary Vice
President on more than two consecutive terms, he may be re-elected  to the same office after the lapse of one
term of office of the Board following expiry of the term of office.
(g)  The Honorary immediate past  President  shall be the person who has held the office of  President at the end
of the previous term of office.
(h) Only an incorporated Member who has served on the Board at least one term of office shall be eligible for
election as Honorary Secretary, Honorary Co-Secretary, Honorary Treasurer or Honorary Assistant Treasurer.
Although such Member may not hold an office previously held by him for more than  two consecutive terms,
he may be re-elected after the expiry of one term of office of the Board.
(i) Members selected to the offices of Honorary President, Honorary immediate past President, Honorary Senior
Vice President, Honorary Vice President, Honorary Co-Secretaries, Honorary Treasurer and Honorary Assistant
Treasurer  of the Board may hold the offices to which  they are elected on two consecutive terms without a
voting.
(j) One term of office of the Board means the period between two annual general meetings.
9. (a) Only a Fellow Member shall be eligible for election as President of the Board of Studies. Although such a
Member may not hold such office on more than two consecutive terms, he may be elected to the same office
after the expiry of one term of office of the Board.
(b) The President of the Board of Studies shall be an ex-officio Member of the Board.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.02.2015
10. (a) The Board shall consist of not more than nineteen (19) Members including the office bearers and one out of
them shall be the President of the Board of Studies.
(b) At least three Members of the Board shall be Associate Members and not more than three Members shall be
non-incorporated Members.
11. In the election of the aforesaid office bearers and the eight Committee Members, only the incorporated
Members shall be eligible for voting.
12. (a) Registered members and student members shall be eligible to elect at least one registered member and one
student member respectively in order to have themselves represented at the Board.
(b) Although such members have the right to be informed of the meetings of the Board and to participate in such
meetings, they shall have no voting rights. They shall not be present at any disciplinary inquiry or any
discussion on any related matter and shall not participate on such occasions.
13. If the Council membership of a Board member is expired or if he informs the President or the Honorary Secretary
by a registered letter of his intention to resign from office, then the term of such member shall terminate.
14. (a) In  the event of the death of the Honorary President, Honorary Senior Vice President, Honorary Co-Secretary
or Honorary Treasurer or the  vacation of office by any of them, the Honorary Senior Vice President or
Honorary Vice President or Honorary Co-Secretary or Honorary Assistant Treasurer as applicable shall fill the
relevant vacancy until the Board subsequently elected assumes duties.
(b) When an internal Member of the Board dies or vacates office or when a vacancy occurs on account of the
operation of Article 14(a) or any other reason, a member shall be appointed to such office by the Board.
(c) In the calculation of the period of office held by a Member for the purpose of operation of Article 8 of this
Constitution, the period during which such member has held such office on account of the operation of this
Constitution shall be disregarded  and if he had been holding any office previously, it shall be considered  as
if he has been  holding such office continuously during the remaining term of office of the Board as well.
15. (a) The Board shall meet at least once a month and the date of the next meeting shall be fixed, as far as possible,
at the respective meetings of the Board.
(b) The Honorary Secretary shall convene an extra-ordinary meeting of the Board to consider a matter specifically
informed by the President or to consider any matter specifically mentioned in a written request signed by at
least six members of the Board when such a request is received by him. The date, time and venue of such
meeting and the matters to be considered there at shall be intimated to all members of the Board at least 48
hours in advance.
(c) The quorum at a Board meeting shall be six members ( excluding  non-incorporated members).
16. (a) Any incorporated member who is eligible for election to any office other than that of the President and the
immediate past President of the Board/Council may be nominated by any two non-incorporated members.
(b) Any two registered members and any two student members may nominate any registered and any student
member respectively for election to the Board in terms of Article 12(a) of this Constitution.
(c) Such nominations shall be in writing and signed by the proposer and the seconder  with confirmation that all
amounts of annual membership fees and any other dues payable have been duly paid. Furthermore, it shall
include  a written statement signed by the candidate to the effect that he is eligible for election as per the
relevant Rules and   that he expresses his willingness to serve on the Board if elected.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.02.2015
(d) Such nominations for election shall be submitted to the Honorary Secretary at least 15 days in advance.
(e) The Board may, at its last meeting, nominate by resolution  one member each for the respective offices on the
Board other than that of the President and immediate past President. Such nomination shall not be valid unless
the relevant candidate  makes a statement signed by him, prior to being nominated or within two weeks of such
nomination, to the effect that he is eligible for election as per the relevant Articles and if so elected, he would
be willing to  serve on the Board.
17. (a) The notice relating to the annual general meeting shall include a list of names of all candidates nominated in
terms of Article 16.
(b) No member shall  be eligible to vote unless he has paid in advance the amounts of contribution due from him
in respect of the current calendar year.
(c) The first item on the Agenda of the annual general meeting shall be the election of office bearers. V oting shall
be by secret ballot.
(d) The preparation and issue of ballot papers, provision of ballot boxes and counting of votes shall be the
responsibility of the Senior Vice President (elected President) and his decision on the validity of any nomination,
eligibility of any candidate, the right of vote of any member etc. shall be final. He may appoint not more than
two Fellow Members who are not candidates, for his assistance.
(e) A candidate may be nominated for more than one office. However, if elected for one office, votes cast for him
for any other office shall be disregarded. In the operation  of  this Article, the counting of votes  in respect of
the other offices of Senior Vice President, Vice President, Honorary Co-Secretary, Honorary Treasurer and
Honorary Assistant Treasurer shall be done according to that order.
18. The Financial Year of the Council shall be from January 01 to December 31.
19. Members of the Board shall hold office from the date of the Annual General Meeting at which they are elected until
the date of the Annual General Meeting at which their successors are elected.
20. (a) The Annual General Meeting of the Members of the Council shall be held before the end of March every year.
The following matters shall be included in the Agenda of the Annual General Meeting:
· Election of office bearers and Committee Members of the Board
· Adoption of the Annual Report and the audited Statement of Accounts for the previous year
· Other matters duly informed of in advance
(b) The date, time and venue of the Annual General Meeting shall be intimated to all the members at least ten (10)
days in advance.
(c) If the Annual General Meeting is not held before the end of March, a special General Meeting of Council
members shall be convened as per Article 21 to make provisions to convene the Annual General Meeting  and
to conduct its proceedings.
(d) The Board shall make arrangements to hold at least three General Meetings of Council members in addition to
the Annual General Meeting.
21. (a) The Honorary Secretary shall convene a special general meeting of  Council members when directed by the
Honorary President to consider any matter specifically addressed to the members by the President or on
receipt of a written request signed by at least  fifteen incorporated members to consider any matter specifically
mentioned in such request.

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.02.2015
(b) The date, time and venue and the nature of business of such meeting shall be intimated to all the members at
least three days in advance.
22. (a) The Honorary President shall preside at all meetings of Council members. In his absence, the Honorary
immediate past President or Honorary Senior Vice President or Honorary Vice President or in their absence, a
Board member elected by the members present shall chair the meeting.
(b) The quorum  required for a meeting of Council members shall be one fourth of the incorporated membership. If
a quorum is not present within half an hour from the appointed time of the meeting, the meeting shall be
suspended and if a quorum is not present  within half an hour from the time of commencement of the suspended
meeting, the number present shall constitute the quorum.
(c) Although all non-incorporated members may attend and participate  at  all meetings, they shall  vote only in the
manner specified in Article 12 of this Constitution.
23. (a) The Board shall appoint a Board of Studies and may also appoint other Boards or Committees for advice and
assistance regarding the objects or functions of the Board or certain specific matters approved as the Board
may deem appropriate.
(b) The Board of Studies shall act with regard to archaeological studies of students, the conduct of examinations
and all other matters related thereto as specified in Section 3(a), (b) and (e) of the Act. The President of the
Council shall be an ex-officio member of the Board of Studies.
(c) The Board may assign to the Board of Studies the conduct of courses for qualifying examinations for eligibility
for membership of the Council and the conduct of such examinations.
24. The Council may award  gold medals annually in recognition of distinguished services rendered during the
respective years for the advancement of Archaeology.
SCHEDULE  1
MEMBERSHIP   FEES   AND  CHARGES
Membership Admission Fee Annual Membership Fee
Fellow Member Rs. 750.00 Rs. 750.00
Member Rs. 500.00 Rs. 500.00
Associate Member Rs. 250.00 Rs. 250.00
Registered Member Rs. 100.00 Rs. 100.00
Student Member Rs.   50.00 Rs.   50.00
SCHEDULE   2
QUALIFICATIONS  FOR  MEMBERSHIP
1. Qualifications for registration as a Fellow Member of Sri Lanka Council of Archaeology:
(a) Possessed membership of the Council for over ten years.
2. Qualifications for registration as a Member of Sri Lanka Council of Archaeology:

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.02.2015
(a) A postgraduate Degree in Archaeology from a recognized university or an institute and two years’ experience
as a professional Archaeologist in a suitable state or private institute under the supervision of a Fellow
Member. Experience may be obtained before or after the acquisition of the postgraduate degree.
3. Qualifications for registration as an Associate Member of the Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists:
(a) A special degree in Archaeology and five years’ service as a registered member;
or
(b) A Postgraduate Degree in Archaeology;
or
(c) A pass in the professional examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists
4. Qualification for registration as a registered  Member of the Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists:
(a) Five years’ service as  a student member;
or
(b) Ten years’ experience at a professional or technical level in a suitable state or private institute under the
supervision of a Fellow Member or a Member
5. Qualifications  for registration as a student member of  the  Sri Lanka Council of Archaeologists:
(a) Admission for a special Degree Course in Archaeology or a general degree course with Archaeology as a
subject;
or
(b) Admission for a Postgraduate Degree course in Archaeology
The study of Archaeology is identified under different names and analyses by certain institutes or traditions. The
acceptance of such optional names or analyses being made analogous to Archaeology will be as interpreted by the
Board of Governors based on the merit of individual applications.
Working at a technical level under a professional Archaeologist means the engagement in planning, planimetry,
photography, analysis of finds and in other similar activities belonging to the field of Archaeology as accepted by
the Council from  time to time.
02-711
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.