

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2401$33 - 2024 iema;eïn¾ ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'09'13
No. 2401/33 -  friday,   september  13,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
EASTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
1a - pG 6872 - 29 (09/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Notification given by the Governor of the Eastern Province
by  virtue of the powers vested in me, m. senthil thondaman the Governor of eastern province under section 154(c) of 
the 13th amendment of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, do by this notified in 1 and 2 
regarding the matters related to provincial schools with effect from 12.09.2024.
 1. the procedures for involving non-governmental organizations, international non-governmental organizations           
and sponsors in providing physical resources and conducting development activities at provincial schools are as 
follows :
 1.1. distributing equipment : this involves specifying the types of equipment, amounts, detailed recipient 
information, method of distribution, intended activities and relevant requests and recommendations.
 1.2. providing physical resources (building and construction) : this includes outlining the purpose of construction, 
details of beneficiaries, building plans and drawings, construction location, construction budgets and estimates, 
relevant requests, recommendations and a draft of the plagues (establishment and Opening)
  approval from the provincial secretary of e ducation is required for these activities. the submission of the documents 
mentioned above is mandatory. the provincial director of education is responsible for organizing and managing 
the event or the ceremony.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
2a
 2. The provincial school band is to be used only for school-related events of the specific schools. When utilizing the 
school band for other events, the event organizer must seek permission from the provincial secretary of education 
through the principal, the  Zonal director of education, and the provincial director of education. adequate facilities 
and care, including drinking water, refreshments and appropriate shelter should be provided for the children by 
the organizers.
  Using the band for events promoting political agendas, non-education-related events, and events requiring bus 
transportation to distant locations is strictly prohibited.
 M. S enthil  t hondaMan ,
 Governor of the eastern province.   
 
eOG 09 - 0112
PRinted at  the deP aR tMent  oF GoVeRnMent  PRintinG,  SRi lanKa.