

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Presented by the Minister of Labour and Labour Relations
on 10th February, 2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 73]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on December 13, 2010)
EMPLOYEES’ PROVIDENT FUND
(AMENDMENT)
A
BILL
to amend the Employees’ Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of  1958

<!-- page 2 -->

STATEMENT OF LEGAL EFFECT
Clause 2 : This clause introduces a new subsection to section 3 of the Employees’
Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958, (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”)
and the legal effect of the new subsection will be to assign an identification number to an
employee and employer.
Clause 3 : This clause amends section 5 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of that section as amended will be to invest the moneys in the Fund to erect a building and
to pay interest on the monies lying in the suspense account, for the actual period.
Clause 4 : This clause inserts new section 23
A  of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of that section will be to extend housing benefits and benefits relating to medical
treatment to every member of the Fund.
Clause 5 : This clause inserts new section 24
A  in the principal enactment and the legal
effect of that section will be to establish an insurance scheme or a pension scheme.
Clause 6 : This clause amends section 31A  of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of that section as amended will be to increase the surcharge to two per centum.
Clause 7 : This clause inserts new section 31B  of the principal enactment and the legal
effect of that section will be to impose a duty on every employer having in his employment
a minimum of fifty employees, to furnish a monthly return.
Clause 8 : This clause amends section 37 of the principal enactment and the legal effect
of that section as amended will be to increase the fine and imprisonment.
Clause 9 : This clause amends section 46 of the principal enactment is consequential to
the amendments made by clause 5.

<!-- page 3 -->

1Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
2—005332—425 (11/2010)
L. D. —O. 43/2008.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  EMPLOYEES ’ PROVIDENT  FUND
A CT , NO . 15 OF  1958
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Employees’ Provident
Fund (Amendment) Act, No.   of  2011.
2. Section 3 of the Employees’ Provident Fund Act, No.
15 of 1958, (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended by the insertion immediately
after subsection (1) of that section, of the following new
subsection:—
“(1A ) Where an employee becomes a member of the
Fund established under subsection (1), the
Commissioner-General of Labour shall assign an
identification number to such employee and employer
in the prescribed manner.”.
3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e)
of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph :—
“(ee) may invest according to such terms and
conditions as may be prescribed such amount
of moneys of the Fund wihch may become
necessary for the construction on any land,
purchased for that purpose or belonging to or
held by the Fund, of a Secretariat on behalf of
the Employees’ Provident Fund, for the use
of the Fund;” and
Amendment
of section 3
of Act, No.
15 of 1958.
Amendment
of section 5
of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)2
5
10
15
20
25
(2) in paragraph (ff) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words “account, for a period
not exceeding six years prior to the date of such
transfer, and” of the words “account and”.
4.  The  following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 23 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 23
A  of that enactment:—
23A . (1) Every member of the Fund who—
(a) has made contributions to the Fund
for a period of not less than ten years;
(b) is presently employed; and
(c) possesses not less than three
hundred thousand rupees to his
credit in his individual account,
shall, for the purpose of—
(i)housing; or
(ii)medical treatment,
be entitled to withdraw such amount as does
not exceed thirty per centum of the amount
lying to his credit in his individual account.
(2) A member of the Fund who subject to
the provisions of subsection (1) makes a
withdrawal from the amount lying to his credit
in his account, shall upon the completion of a
period of ten years from the date of such
withdrawal, subject to the provisions of
paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (1) be
entitled to make a second withdrawal of such
amount as does not exceed thirty per centum
from such account for any one of the above
purposes.
Insertion of
new section
23
A  in the
principal
enactment.
“ Housing
benefits and
benefits
relating to
medical
treatment.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

3Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)
5
10
15
20
25
(3) Every member shall, during the period
he is a contributor to the Fund be entitled to
only two withdrawals from his individual
account.
(4) For the purpose of this section—
“housing” includes—
(a) the construction of a house on a
land belonging to a member ;
(b) the purchase of a land for the
construction of a house;
(c) the purchase of a house;
(d) the redemption of a mortgage on
housing property; or
(e) the settlement of an outstanding
balance of the housing loan
received from the approved bank,
by such member; and
“medical treatment” includes—
(a) heart surgery;
(b) by-pass surgery;
(c) treatment for cancer including
surgery;
(d) kidney transplant or surgery;
(e) cesarean operation; or
(f) hospitalization for not less than
fourteen days on the account of an
accident.

<!-- page 6 -->

Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)4
5
10
15
20
(5) A member of the Fund, his or her spouse
and his or her children shall be entitled to the
medical treatment referred to in this section.
(6) The Minister may appoint, by Order
published in the Gazette different dates for the
bringing in to operation of the provisions of
sub-paragraph (i) or (ii) of subsection (1) .”.
5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 24 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 24
A  of that enactment:—
24A . (1) The Commissioner-General of
Labour may establish an insurance scheme and
a pension scheme as the case as may be for the
benefit of the members of the Fund subject to
such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.
(2) Every member of the Fund who wishes
to join the insurance scheme or the pension
scheme or the both schemes,  shall be required
to contribute the prescribed amount.”.
6. Section 31
A  of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, by the substitution for the words “at the rate of
one per centum” of the words “at the rate of two per centum”.
7. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 31
A  of the principal enactment
and shall have effect as section 31B  of that enactment:—
31B . It shall be the duty of every employer
having in his employment a minimum of fifty
employees to furnish a monthly return
containing such particulars as may be
prescribed, to the Commissioner-General of
Labour with a copy to the Central Bank not
later than the end of the succeeding month.”.
Insertion of
new section
24
A  in the
principal
enactment.
“Insurance or
pension
scheme.
“Duty to
furnish
returns.
Amendment
of section
31
A  of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of
new section
31
B  in the
principal
enactment.
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

5Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)
8. Section 37 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, by the substitution for the words “fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees”, “term not exceeding six
months” and “fine not exceeding fifty rupees for each day”
of the words “fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees”,
“term not exceeding twelve months” and “fine not exceeding
two hundred rupees for each day” respectively.
9. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) thereof by the insertion
immediately after paragraph (n) of that subsection of the
following new paragraph:—
“(nn) in respect of the procedure to be followed in granting
housing benefits and benefits relating to medical
treatment;”.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Amendment
of section 37
of the
principal
enactment.
5
10
15 Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of any
inconsistency.
Amendment
of section 46
of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 8 -->

Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)6
SCHEDULE (Section 5B )
1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuing
as a member of the Committee—
(a) if he is or becomes a Member of Parliament, a Provincial
Council or any local authority;
(b) if he is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;
(c) if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other
country, found or declared to be of unsound mind;
(d) if he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other country; or
(e) if he had been removed from membership of the Committee
for misconduct.
2. Every appointed member shall, unless he vacates office earlier
by death, resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three years
from the date of his appointment and unless he has been removed
from office, be eligible for re-appointment.
3. The Minister may by Order published in the Gazette, remove
from office the appointed member of the Committee for physical or
mental incapacity or for any act or thing which in the opinion of the
Minister is likely to bring disrepute to the Committee.
4. Where an appointed member of the Committee is, by reason of
illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period not less than
three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties, it shall be
the duty of such member to inform the Minister in writing of such
inability. T he Minister may having regard to section 5
B , appoint some
other person to act in his place during the absence.
5. The members of the Committee shall be remunerated in such
manner and at such rates as may be determined by the Minister, in
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
6. (1) The Chairman of the Committee shall if present, preside at
all meetings of the Committee. In the absence of the Chairman from
any such meeting, the Commissioner General of Labour shall preside
at such meeting.
(2) An ex-officio member ma y at any time by prior notice in
writing, nominate his deputy to represent him at any meeting of the
Disqualification
from appointment.
Term of office of
members.
Termination of
appointment of
members.
5
10

<!-- page 9 -->

7Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)
Committee to be held on a given date, if he is unable to attend such
meeting due to unavoidable circumstances.
(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Committee shall be three
members and the Committee may regulate the procedure in regard to
the conduct of its meetings and the transaction of business at such
meetings.
7. No act or proceeding of the Committee shall be invalid by
reason only of the existence of a vacancy among its members or any
defect in the appointment of a member.
Absence of
members.
Remuneration of
members.
Proceedings, act
or decision not to
deemed invalid by
reason of any
defect in the
appointment.
Meetings of the
Committee.

<!-- page 10 -->

Emplo yees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.