

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2019
w;s úfYI
wxl 2138$36 - 2019 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'08'30
No. 2138/36 -  FRIDAY   AUGUST  30,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A - PG  4632— 20  (08/2019)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
UV A   PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Uva Provincial Council Draft Roads Statute (Amendment) of No..... of 2019 of the Provincial Council of the
Uva Province
I, do hereby present the draft of the above mentioned Statute proposed to be implemented in the Provincial Council of the
Uva Province as follows for public opinions.
It is noticed that this draft is forwarded to the Provincial Council of the Uva Province for approval after 14 days
from the publication of this notice in the Extraordinary Gazette. If you intend to present any opinion on the facts of this
Statute, such opinion shall be submitted to me in writing within 14 days of this notice to the following address.
AKALAN S ENTHIL T HONDAMAN ,
Minister of Road Development, Housing, Water Supply,
Estate Infrastructure, Cooperative and Tamil Medium Education,
Provincial Council,
Uva Province.
Ministry of Road Development, Housing, Water Supply,
Estate Infrastructure, Cooperative and Tamil Medium Education,
At the Minister’s Office,
R. H. Gunawardena Mawatha,
Badulla,
On 21st August, 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2019
2A
01) This Statute may be cited as the Statute (Amendment) of Uva Provincial Road of No. ............. of
2019 of the Uva Provincial Council and unless stated otherwise, it shall come into operation for
all functions, with effect from the decided or approved date by the Governor of the Uva Province.
02) Section 3 of the Statute of Uva Provincial Road No. 02 of 2010 (hereinafter referred as “the
main Statute”) shall be replaced with following new subsection and, it shall come into operation
as subsection 3 of the main Statute.
3.(1)    A certain road, in accordance with the powers vested by subsection 6 of Section 6 can be
declared as belonging to the Uva Provincial Council by the Minister in charge of Uva
Provincial Road subject (hereinafter referred to as “the Minister”) through orders published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Every such road should
be graded as a road of “C”, “D” or “R”class, also all the roads known as “E” in the main
Statute should be hereinafter referred as “R” class roads.
(2) Criteria for grading provincial roads can be enacted by the Minister by means of orders.
03) (a), (b) and (c) subsections of subsection (1) of section 26 of the main Statute is replaced with
the following new subsection and, it shall be enforced as (a) and (b) under 26(1) of the main
Statute.
1. By replacing (a), (b) and (c) paragraph of subsection (1) of that section with following
subsection :-
(1) (a) in respect of a road declared by the Minister of Road as a provincial road, the
limit of constructing buildings in accordance with the distance decided by the
Provincial Road Director, towards both sides from the the road center line of
that road and the weight limit of the vehicle with total weight loaded, including
materials, people and animals should be published in the Gazette by the
Provincial Road Director.
(b) Limits ordered by the paragraph (a) above, can be ordered in respect of a certain
road or even separately on a certain part of it or parts.
2. Subsection 26(4) of the main Statute is replaced with the following new subsection and, it
shall come into operation as subsection 26(4) of the main Statute.
(4) The limits ordered by the above subsection (1) can be amended by the Provincial
Road Director after having considered the recommendation received by a committee
appointed by the Provincial Road Director including two chief engineers of the Uva
Provincial Department of Road Development and, the aforesaid amendment can be
amended by  an announcement published in the Gazette.
UV A    PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Statute (Amendment) of Uva Provincial Road of No. .......... of 2019 of the Uva Provincial Council
A Statute came into operation for amending the Statute of “Uva Provincial Road” of No. 02 of 2010 of the Uva Provincial
Council.
Be it enacted as such by the Uva Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
in accordance with the powers vested to provincial councils through the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Short title and date
of operation
Amendment of the
Section 3 of the
main Statute
Amendment of
Section 26 of the
main Statute
Building
construction
limits and weight
limsits

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'08'30
PART  IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.08.2019
3. Subsection 26(6) of the main Statute is replaced by following new Subsection and, it shall
come into operation as subsection 26(6) of the main Statute.
(6) in respect of a vehicle used on a road declared by the Minister as a Provincial Road,
the maximum possible length, width and height of the vehicle should be ordered by
the Provincial Road Director by an announcement published in the Gazette.
4. Subsecion 26(7) of the main Statute is replaced with following new subsection and it shall
come into operation as subsection 26(7) of the main Statute.
(7) Under this section, it is in order to allow to exhibit properly by the Divisional Engineer,
the weight limits, length, width and height limits of the vehicle, ordered by the
Provincial Road Director, in different places on the relevant roads to be seen easily.
04) If there is any inconsistency among the Sinhala, Tamil and English versions of this Statute the
Sinhala version should be enforced.
09 - 411
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
If any
inconsistency the
Sinhala version
shall be enforced