

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1691$10 - 2011 fmnrjdß 01 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2011'02'01
No. 1691/10  -  TUESDAY ,    FEBRUARY   01,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1.  This statute shall be named as “the Western Province Economic Development Bureau statute,
No. 09 of 2010”. It shall come in to effect from the date of reception of the approval of the Honourable
Governor of the western Province.
P
ART  I
Establishing an Economic Development Bureau in the Western Province and it’ s composition
2. (1)  A bureau which shall be identified as the Western Province Economic Development Bureau
(Which shall be referred to as the "bureau" hereafter) would be established.
    (2) The bureau shall be a corporation by the name given for it in the sub section (1) and it
should have a continuous existence and a common cachet. Further it shall be possible to file case by the
bureau and being field case against the bureau by that name.
3.  The members of the director board of the bureau should be the members of the bureau.
4.   (1)  A director board which shall be referred to as the "board" hereafter should be in  the
bureau and it should be consist of seven members appointed by the minister as mentioned below.
WESTERN    PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Western Province Economic Develpoment Bureau Statute, No. 09 of 2010
A STATUTE TO PROVIDE PROVISIONS FOR ALL CAUSES RELEV ANT OR INCIDENTAL FOR ESTABLISHING AN
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BUREAU IN THE WESTERN PROVINCE FOR PROMOTING , ESTABLISHING AND
ENGAGING IN AGRICULTURAL, INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND TRADING ENTERPRISES AND OTHER PROJECTS
WHICH EARN AN INCOME, AND FOR PREPARING , EXECUTING , COORDINATING  INDUSTRIAL AND ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND FOR PROMOTING SCIENTIFIC AND INDUSTRIAL EXPERIMENTS
BE it enacted by the provincial council of the Western Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
Short title and
the date of
enactment.
Establishing the
Economic
Development
 bureau
Members of the
board
Director Board
3 — PG 001222

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
2A
(a)  (i) A  nominee of the Chief Secretary of the Western Provincial Council,
(ii) Deputy Chief Secretary of the Western Provincial council- Finance,
(iii) Deputy Chief Secretary of the Western Provincial Council-Planning.
(b) Four members appointed by the Minister from persons with experience and ability for
compiling plans, investing activities of the Government and private sector, working with
foreign aid institutions as representing the fields of agricultural, industrial commercial and
trade enterprise, law to reflect the multi action divisions of the bureau which should be
referred to as the "appointed members" hereafter.
(2)  If a person—
(a) is or be a member of the Parliament, of any Provincial Council or of any Local Government
Institute;
(b) is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or would be suspended to be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(c) has been decided or declared as a confused person under any law exercised in Sri
Lanka or in any other country;
(d) is or was under a sentence of imprisonment ordered by a court in Sri Lanka or in any
other country or;
(e) is removed from the membership of the bureau due to a misconduct.
he is not suitable to appoint or function as a member of the bureau.
(3) Every appointed member should bear the office for a term of three years unless he
resigned earlier / died or dismissed from the office.
(4) An appointed member could resign from his office by a letter directed to the Minister.
(5) An appointed member who vacates his office by resigning or expiring the term of office
would be suitable to appoint again.
(6) (a) The Minister can remove an appointed member of the bureau from his office, when his
conduct would not be satisfied.
(b) A member who was removed from the office under the section ( a), should not be
suitable to serve or appoint again in the bureau as a director or in an other condition.
(7) (a)  If an assigned member who vacates his office not by expiring the term of office but in
other way, any other person can be appointed by the minister, instead of the assigned
member who vacates the office with attention to the provisions of the sub section (1)
of section (b)
(b) Only if an appointed member appointed by the section ( a) vacated his office earlier, he
should bear his office with in the unexpired term of the office of his predecessor.
(8) In an occasion where a director can not perform the duty of his office temporarily or living
outside the Sri Lanka, a person who is suitable for acting for him during the time of that
inability or staying outside can be appointed by the Minister.
5.  The Remunerative should be paid to the members of the bureau according to the way and
quantity decided by the Minister.
Disqualifications
to be a member
Paying
remunerative to
the members

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
6.  A Director who has a direct or indirect relationship with an agreement that is made or proposed
to make by the bureau should reveal the nature of his relationship in the board meeting. That revelation
should be reported in the board report and that director should not participate in any discussion or
decision hold of the board regarding that agreement.
However, a relationship that any director of the bureau could have with an agreement as an officer
of a government department or a state corporation or as a director of a state corporation, should not be
considered as a relationship according to the meaning of this section.
7.  Four members should be presented for quorum of any meeting of the board. Respective
procedure that is relevant for board meetings and functions of the meeting could be regulated by the board
under the provisions of this statue.
8. Any function or action of the board should not be considered as an invalid action due to a
vacancy among the directors of the board or any defect of the appointment of any director.
9. The functions of the bureau should be administrated by the board, and executing and
accomplishing all powers and function of the bureau could be done for that purpose.
10. Any respective powers and actions that are necessary to administrate the functions of the
bureau effectively could b e assign to the chairman, a director or any employee of the bureau by the board.
11. (1) The chairman of the board should be appointed among the directors, by the Minister.
 (2) If the chairman could not temporarily perform duties of his office due to morbidity or
other disability or living out side the Sri Lanka, a director could be appointed by the
Minister to act instead of him.
(3) The chairman should bear the chair at all meetings of the board. If the chairman is absent
for any meeting, one Director should be appointed by the other presented directors to
bear the chair of that meeting.
(4) The chairman could resign from his office by a letter directed to the Minister.
(5) The appointment of the chairman could be ended by the Minister, if the conduct or the
Chairman is not satisfactory.
(6) The term of the office of the Chairman should be the term of his office as a member of the
board under provisions of the sub section (4) and (5).
(7) The Chairman should have a casting vote in addition to his own vote in any meeting of
the board.
12. (1) The cachet of the bureau should be in the trust of the Chairman or any Officer of the bureau
who is authorized  by the board for the relevant purpose.
(2) The cachet of the bureau could be changed in a way decided by the board.
The members of
the bureau should
reveal their
relationship with
an agreement
that is proposed
to made by the
bureau.
Regulating the
quorum and the
procedure of the
meetings of the
board.
Validity of the
functions of the
board.
The members of
the board should
administrate its
functions.
Powers of the
board and
delegation of
functions.
Chairman of the
board.
Cachet of the
 bureau.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
4A
(3) The cachet of the bureau should not be placed on any instrument or document except in
the presence of two directors or one director and an officer who is specially authorized by
the board for the relevant purpose in an occasion of two directors could not be presented.
13. The written orders  could be given to the bureau by the minister with regard to the
accomplishment of the duty and execution of the powers of the bureau and the bureau should implement
these orders.
P
ART  II
Objectives and the Authority of the Bureau
14. (1) Developing and expanding economical and social infrastructure, contributing to promote
production and providing all services, encourage and to assist to develop and to provide employment in
the Western Province.
(2) Making necessary strategies to get the contribution of national and foreign investors for
the development of the Western Province and encourage domestic investments.
(3) Providing suitable facilities to encourage investments and a beneficial atmosphere for
investments.
(4) Identifying projects that would be helpful to increase the gross domestic production and
revenue of the Western Province and providing guidance to the provincial ministries of
the relevant subjects to implement them.
(5) Providing professional advisory services for other institutions in Sri Lanka.
(6) Developing human resources that are needed to maintain reaserch an training activities
relevant to the economic promotion and conducting researches.
(7) Making investing opportunities for economic promotion in the Western Province, acquiring
domestic and foreign provisions, planning special projects.
(8) Preparing short term and mid term plans for the development of the Western Province.
(9) Inaugurating business / projects in collaboration with the private sector with the
participation of relevant ministries of the provincial council in necessary occasions.
(10) Preparing necessary plans to implement foreign aid projects with the agreement of the
finance ministry of the central government and acquiring financial provisions.
(11) Maintaining the fund of the Economic Development Bureau and manage it regularly.
(12) Accomplishing coordinating activities with relevant provincial ministry when entering to
an agreement with Government Institutions, Private institutions and Local Government
Institutions.
15. (1) The bureau should have the authority  to do necessary or beneficial or incidental functions
to implement the objectives of the bureau ;
(2) Without harming the expansion of the powers endowed by the sub section (1)—
(a) to invest in the subject of deposit or securities that are considered as suitable by the
board with the approval of the provincial treasury, from the finance of the bureau that
are not needed immediately for the functions of this statute;
Ministers powers
regarding the
bureau.
Objectives of the
bureau.
General duties of
the bureau.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
(b) To acquire, bear, take on lease or rent, lease out or  rent out, pawn, sell any movable or
fixed property or to discard them in an other way;
(c) To enter directly or through the provincial ministry or through an officer or a
representative of the bureau, to all pacts and agreements that are needed to execute the
powers of the bureau and to implement the objectives of the bureau ;
(d) To appoint other officers, servants and service providers to end up their service. to pay
and to control remunerative and to direct and decide all matters regarding administration
of its functions ;
(e) To make rules regarding the administration of the functions of the bureau ;
(f) To prepare methods to fulfill the objectives of the bureau ;
(g) Acquring funds, technology, specialist knowledge or other aids with agreement to the
approval of the provincial treasury and national and provincial council policies ;
(h) Prescribing service statutes, disciplinary procedures and recruiting procedures for the
staff of the bureau with agreement to provincial treasury and the national policies and
provincial council policies.
P
ART III
Fund of the bureau
16. (1) There should be a fund in the name of the bureau :
(a) Finance discharged by the provincial council as grants to the bureau,
(b) All money collected under the order of this statute,
(c) All money received by the bureau as fares and charges,
(d) All money received by the bureau as income gained from invests done by the bureau;
and
(e) All money received by the bureau while executing and performing its powers, duties
and functions
should be credited to the fund.
(2) (a) The remunerative that should be paid to the members of the board.
(b) Wages that should be paid to the officers, servants and employees of the bureau.
(c) Remunerative and allowances that should be paid to the service providers of the
bureau ; and
(d) All money needed for any expense board by the bureau with regard to the execution
and accomplisment of its powers, duties and functions.
should be paid from the fund.
(3) The initial capital of the fund should be five million rupees. The initial capital should
be paid from the provincial council fund by a number of installments decided by the
minister and that amount should be credited to the fund established under the sub
section (1)

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
6A
(4) The financial year of the bureau should be the calendar year.
(5) The trust of the fund of the bureau, paying money to that fund, accounting, preparing
estimate for the budget and all causes relevant and consequent to these causes
should be regulated by the rules made by the minister.
The provisions of the statute No. 154 of the constitution should be relevant for
auditing the accounts.
Accounts of the fund and a copy of the report of the Auditor General regarding that
should be presented to the minister. He should make arrangements to present it in the
provincial council along with the annual report of the bureau.
P
ART  IV
Staff of the bureau
17. (1) Officers and servants who are considered as to be needed to accomplish the functions of
the bureau effectively, could be appointed by the bureau.
  (2) The remunerative should be paid to the officers and servants appointed by the sub section
(1) in the way and in the quantity decided by the bureau and with the agreement provincial council and
they should be subjective to the service conditions decided by the bureau and the provincial council.
(3) (a) An Officer of the government Service could be appointed temporarily to the staff of the
bureau for a term decided by the bureau with the consent of that officer and the
authority of appointing the relevant officer on the request of the bureau. Or could be
appointed permanently to that staff with the consent of aforesaid.
(b) When the bureau gets the service of a person who is bound to serve the Government
for a certain period, any period that person serves  in the bureau should be considered
as a service to the Government for accomplishing functions of his bond under that
agreement.
P
ART  V
Acquisition of fixed property
18. (1) When the bureau suggests that it is necessary to acquire a fixed property situated in the
province for the objective of this statute, a proposal of request can be agreed upon—
(a) when that property is a property of the government, as giving that property to the
bureau for a function under the subject of 1:1:2 of the appendix 2 of the list 1 of the
schedule No. 9 under the constitution;
(b) when that property is a private property, as acquiring by the minister of the subject of
the land of the central government of behalf of the bureau for a purpose under the Land
Acquisition Act,
by a cabinet recommendation made upon a request of the Subject Minister of the
provincial council, with regard to the property which is expected to acquire.
Auditing the
accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
(2) When a proposal under the sub section No. (1) is agreed upon by the provincial board of
members the aforesaid proposal—
(a) is with regard to a property of the Government, a request should be made to the
Government Institute, to which that property belongs.
(b) is with regard to a private property, a request should be made through the chief
secretary by the secretary of the ministry of the subject of land of the government
under the Land Acquisition Act.
P
ART   VI
Common provisions
19. (1) Making rules that are incompatible to the provisions of this statute, without harming the
powers assigned in this statute, with regard to all causes mensioned below or a certain cause from them,
relavant to execution, enactment of provisions and charge fares under this statute can be done by the
Minister:
(a) Prescribing the way of calling meetings of the bureau and the way of conducting
meetings
(b) financial and administration procedures of the bureau
(c) with regard to any causes for accomplishing the objectives of the bureau and that can
be taken under the statute.
(2) Every rule that are made under this sentence should be published in the Gazette and that
should come into effect from the day of publishing it or after a date mentioned in that rule.
(3) Every rule made by the minister should be presented to the provincial council for the
approval within a period of three months after publishing it in the Gazette.
However any rule that is not approved in that way should be considered as separated rule
since that date of unapproved, but any harm should not happen to any thing done before under that rule.
20. (1) All officers and servants of the bureau are included in the disciplinary procedure mentioned
in the volume II of the Establishment Code and should be considered as Government Officers and Servants
with regard to the provisions of the penal code.
(2) The bureau should be considered as a scheduled institute as signified in the Bribery Act.
21. In this statute, unless the text otherwise requires.
“Minister” means the minister of the subject of economic promotion in the Board of Ministers
in the Provincial Council of the Western Province.
“Minister of Finance” means the Minister of the Subject of Finance in the Board of Ministers
in the Provincial Council of the Western Province.
“Board of Ministers” means the Board of Ministers of the Provincial Council of the Western
Province.
Power of making
rules
Section of
interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'02'01
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.02.2011
8A
“Minister of the Subject of Land of the Government” means the Minister of the Subject of the
Land of the Government.
“Provincial Minister of the subject” means the Provincial Minister of each subject in the
board in the Board of Ministers in the Provincial Council of the Western Province.
“Establishment Code” means the volume II of the Establishment Code issued by the Secretary
to the ministry of Public Administration.
22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this statute,
the Sinhala text shall prevail
Sinhala text shall
prevail in an
inconsistencey.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
02 - 397