

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
JAMIAH RAHMANIYA ARABIC COLLEGE,
AKURANA (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 243]
————————
Presented by Hon. Abdul Haleem  , M.P. for
Kandy District on 05th June, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on May 13, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Jamiah Rahamaniya Arabic College, Akurana
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2—PL 007316—850 (06/2013)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana
(Incorporation)
2—PL 007151—75 (04/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Jamiah
Rahmaniya
Arabic
College,
Akurana.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE JAMIAH RAHMANIYA ARABIC
COLLEGE, AKURANA
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the “Jamiah
Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana ” has heretofore been
formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
College according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said College has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Jamiah Rahmaniya
Arabic College, Akurana (Incorporation) Act, No.    2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“
Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana” (hereinafter
referred to as the “College”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be
a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name
and style of  “
Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana”
and by that name may sue and be sued in all courts ,with full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and
alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to administer the 
Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic
College, Akurana;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to educate the daily use language of Sinhala,
English, Tamil and Urudu;
(c) to produce Islamic Ulama who are competent to
lead the community under the Islamic Law on all
spheres of life;
(d) to produce “Hafils” who have learnt the Holy Quran
by heart;
(e) establishing and exercising an Islamic economic
system;
(f) creating develop individuals who choose Islam as
his or her path of life;
(g) to promote and foster unity within the Islamic
community and find solutions of problems of such
community;
(h) promoting Islamic Culture and arts and creating
the necessary resources and maintain them; and
(i) establishing a library and promoting towards
education and research.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and including eleven members elected in accordance with
such rules.
(2) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the College
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
Commencement of this Act.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things what
so ever  as are necessary and desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable and immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without
security,to erect any building or structures on any land held
by the Corporation and to engage, employ and dismiss
officers and servants required for the carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or  resignation of members
and membership fees payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and perfomance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, power, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) qulification required to become a member of the
Corporaton and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administrations and management of the property
of the Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its power, duties and function under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property,  movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of  any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power  to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not
be distributed among the members of the Corporation, but
shall be given or transferred to some other institution or
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana
(Incorporation)
5
institutions having objects similar to those of the
Corporation and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited
from distributing any income or property among their
members.
11. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper account to be kept of all moneys received and
expended by the Corporation.
(2) The accounts of  the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence two
number of person who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall
be independent of the  signing of any person as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10
15
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
20

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Jamiah Rahmaniya Arabic College, Akurana
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .