

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of June 22, 2018
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 25.06.2018)
OFFICE  FOR  REPARATIONS
Ordered to be published by the Prime Minister
to provide for the establishment of the Office for Reparations; to identify
aggrieved persons eligible for reparations,  and to provide for the provision
of individual and collective reparations to such persons; to repeal the
Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and Industries Authority Act, No. 29 of
1987 and to provide for all matters connected therewith or incidental thereto
Price : Rs. 40.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
A

<!-- page 2 -->

1Office for Reparations
5
10
15
Short title.
L.D.—O. 12/2018
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR
REPARATIONS; TO IDENTIFY AGGRIEVED PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR
REPARATIONS, AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE PROVISION OF INDIVIDUAL
AND COLLECTIVE REPARATIONS TO SUCH PERSONS; TO REPEAL THE
REHABILITATION OF P ERSONS, P ROPERTIES AND I NDUSTRIES
AUTHORITY ACT, NO. 29 OF 1987 AND TO PROVIDE FOR ALL MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL  THERETO.
WHEREAS the Constitution of the  Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka recognizes the inherent dignity and
equal and inalienable human rights of all Sri Lankans and the
State’s obligation to respect, secure and advance these rights:
AND WHEREAS a comprehensive reparations scheme
anchored in the rights of all Sri Lankans to an effective remedy
will contribute to the promotion of reconciliation for the
wellbeing, and security of all Sri Lankans including future
generations.
NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Office for Reparations
Act,  No.        of 2018. 
2. The objectives of this Act shall be -
(a) to formulate and recommend to the Cabinet of
Ministers, Policies on Reparations  to grant individual
and collective reparations to aggrieved persons; 
(b) to facilitate and implement such Policies on
reparations as  approved by the Cabinet of Ministers,
Preamble. 
Objectives of
this Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
by the Office for Reparations, including specialized
policies on public education, memorialization and  on
children, youths, women  and victims of sexual
violence and  persons with disabilities; 
(c) to establish links to ensure the compatibility of the
Office for Reparations with other mechanisms aimed
at reconciliation; and
(d) to monitor and evaluate the progress of delivery of
reparations to eligible aggrieved persons.
PART  I
E
STABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR REPARATIONS
3. (1) There shall be established an office which shall be
called the Office for Reparations. 
(2) The Office for Reparations shall be a body corporate
having perpetual succession and a common seal and may sue
and be sued in its corporate name.
4. (1) The Office for Reparations shall consist of five
members appointed by the President on the recommendation
of the Constitutional Council. 
(2) The Constitutional Council shall recommend three
names out of the members of the Office for Reparations to be
appointed as the Chairperson of the Office for Reparations.
(3)  One of the members recommended under subsection
(2) shall be appointed by the President as the Chairperson of
the Office for Reparations.
(4) In making recommendations for the appointment of
members to the Office for Reparations, the Constitutional
Council shall have due regard to -
(a) ensure that the composition of the Office for
Reparations reflects the pluralistic nature of Sri
Lankan society including gender; and 
Establishment
of the Office
for
Reparations. 
Constitution
of the Office
for
Reparations.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Office for Reparations
5
(b) ensure that the members of the Office for Reparations
shall be persons of integrity and possess experience
and qualifications relevant to the carrying out of the
functions of the Office for Reparations.
5. (1) The President shall, within a period of  fourteen
days of receiving the recommendations  under section 4,
appoint such persons  as members  and, a person as
Chairperson  out of the names recommended under  section
4(2)  for the Office for Reparations. 
(2) In the event of the President failing to make the
necessary appointments within such period of fourteen days–
(a) the persons recommended to be appointed as
members of the Office for Reparations  shall be deemed
to have been appointed as the members of the Office
for Reparations; and
(b) the person whose name appears first in the list of
names recommended to be appointed as the
Chairperson, shall be deemed to have been appointed
as the Chairperson of the Office for Reparations,
with effect from the date of expiry of such period of fourteen
days.
6. Every member of the Office for Reparations shall,
unless such member vacates office earlier by death, resignation
or removal, hold office for a term of three years from the date
of such member’s appointment and shall, unless such member
has been removed, be eligible for reappointment.
7. (1) The office of a member of the Office for Reparations
shall become vacant-
(a) upon the death of such member;
(b) upon such member resigning such office by writing
addressed to the President;
Appointment
of
Chairperson
and members
of the Office
for
Reparations.
Terms of
office of
members.
Removal of
members.
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Office for Reparations
(c) upon such member being removed from office on
any ground specified in subsection (2); or
(d) on the expiration of such member’s term of office.
(2) A member of the Office for Reparations may be removed
from office by the President, if such person –
(a) is adjudged an insolvent by a court of competent
jurisdiction;
(b) is found to have a conflict of interest, which in the
opinion of the President, formed on the
recommendation of the Prime Minister made upon
consultation with the Speaker and the Leader of the
Opposition, conflicts with his duties as a member of
the Office for Reparations;
(c) is unfit to continue in office by reason of illness or
other infirmity of mind or body;
(d) is declared to be of unsound mind by a court of
competent jurisdiction;
(e) is convicted of an offence involving moral turpitude;
or
(f) absents himself from three consecutive meetings
without previously obtaining leave from the Office
for Reparations.
(3) The Chairperson may resign from the office of
Chairperson by letter addressed to the President. 
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), the
term of office of the Chairperson shall be such member’s period
of membership of the Office for Reparations.
(5) (a) If the Chairperson becomes temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office, by reason of illness or other
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 6 -->

5Office for Reparations
infirmity or due to absence from Sri Lanka or any other such
reason, the President may appoint subject to the provisions
of section 4(1), any other member of the Office for Reparations
to act as the Chairperson.
(b) If a member of the Office for Reparations becomes
temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, by reason
of illness or other infirmity or due to absence from Sri Lanka or
any other such reason, the President may subject to the
provisions of section 4(1), appoint any other qualified
person to temporarily act in place of such member during
such period.
(6) No act or proceeding of the Office for Reparations shall
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy among its members, or defect in the appointment of
any member thereof.
8. (1) The Chairperson of the Office for Reparations shall
preside at all meetings of the Office for Reparations.  In the
absence of the Chairperson of any meeting of the Office for
Reparations, the members of the Office for Reparations present
at such meeting shall elect one of the members of the Office
for Reparations to preside at such meeting. 
(2) The Chairperson or the member presiding at any such
meeting of the Office for Reparations shall, in addition to his
own vote, have a casting vote.
(3) The quorum for meetings of the Office for Reparations
shall be three members.
(4) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Office
for Reparations may make rules, to regulate the procedure in
regard to the conduct of its meetings, and the transaction of
business at such meetings. 
5
10
15
20
25
30
Meetings of
the Office for
Reparations.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Office for Reparations
9. The Office for Reparations shall, within a period of
three months of the commencement of the functions of the
Office for Reparations, appoint a member from amongst
themselves or any other officer of the Office for Reparations
as the Information Officer of the Office for Reparations in
terms of section 23 of the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of
2016 and the Chairperson of the Office for Reparations shall
be the Designated Officer for purposes of the said Act.  
10. (1) The headquarters of the Office for Reparations
shall be situated in Colombo. 
(2) The Office for Reparations may, from time to time,
establish such number of regional, temporary or mobile offices,
divisions and units including an outreach unit   as may be
necessary, for the purpose of achieving its objectives and to
ensure that reparations are accessible to aggrieved persons.
PART  II
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE OFFICE FOR REPARATIONS
11. (1) The  Office for Reparations shall have the following
powers and functions :-
(a) to receive recommendations with regard to
reparations to be made to aggrieved persons from
the Office on Missing Persons established under
the Office on Missing Persons (Establishment,
Administration and Discharge of Functions) Act, No.
14 of 2016 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘OMP’) or
such other relevant bodies or institutions;
(b) to receive applications for reparations from aggrieved
persons or representatives of such aggrieved persons
and to verify the authenticity of such application,
for the purpose of assessing the eligibility for
reparations;
5
10
15
20
25
30
Headquarters
and Regional
Offices.
Powers  and
functions of
the Office for
Reparations.
Information
officer and
designated
officer.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Office for Reparations
(c) to identify the aggrieved persons who are eligible
for reparations as well as their level of need; 
(d) to identify and collate information relating to previous
or on-going reparation programmes carried out by
the State, including any expenditure on similar
reparation programmes through a centralized
database;
(e) to make rules with regard to ensure the effective
functioning of the Office for Reparations, including
but not limited to -
(i) the  manner in which recommendations and
claims shall be received;
(ii) the manner in such recommendations and
claims  shall be processed and verified; and
(iii) the administration of the Office for
Reparations;
( f ) to make  rules and issue guidelines from time to
time which shall include gender and child responsive
policies, to be followed by the staff of the Office for
Reparations relating to the exercise and performance
of its powers and functions;
(g) to formulate and recommend to the Cabinet of
Ministers, Policies  on Reparations and guidelines
with regard to the grant of individual and collective
reparations, including-
(i) the criteria for eligibility for aggrieved persons
to obtain reparations, including criteria relating
to the nature and severity of grievances for
which reparations will be available;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Office for Reparations
(ii) the form, and where appropriate, the quantum
of reparations that will be provided to eligible
aggrieved persons;
(iii) the criteria of eligibility of aggrieved persons
to financial compensation;
(iv) the criteria of eligibility of aggrieved persons
to urgent reparations;
(v) a list of bodies which may assist in the
provision or delivery of different forms of
reparations to aggrieved persons;
(vi) recommendations on reparations which may
be provided directly by other State
institutions;
(vii) the criteria on which verified applications for
reparations shall be prioritized;
(h) to implement such Policies on Reparations and
guidelines as may be approved by the Cabinet of
Ministers and grant individual and collective
reparations as envisaged by such approved Policies
on Reparations and guidelines; 
(i) to provide training  including gender responsiveness
to the staff  of the Office for Reparations;
( j ) to provide support, including administrative
support, travel reimbursements and psychosocial
support, where necessary, for  the aggrieved persons
who appear before the Office for Reparations;
(k) to provide protection, with the assistance of law
enforcement authorities, if there is a positive
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 10 -->

9Office for Reparations
assessment of threat to the physical integrity of
aggrieved persons;
(l) to provide information and advice to aggrieved
persons on their rights, the procedures involved in
receiving reparations, truth-seeking mechanisms and
other mechanisms through which they might receive
redress or remedies;
(m) to consider and implement the claims made prior to
the date of commencement of this Act to the
Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and Industries
Authority established under section 2 of the repealed
Act, subject to the availability of resources allocated
therefor; 
(n) to implement such programmes of the Rehabilitation
of Persons, Properties and Industries Authority
established under section 2 of the repealed Act
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers prior to the
date of commencement of this Act, until such time as
such programmes may be discontinued; 
(o) to facilitate the provision of other forms of assistance
provided by other person or body of persons,
including restitution, rehabilitation, administration
and other assistance, and welfare services including
health services, psycho-social support, educational
and vocational training programmes, to the aggrieved
persons;
(p) to appoint and exercise disciplinary control over or
dismiss officers, employees and servants;
(q) to gather  information necessary for the Office for
Reparations to achieve its objectives including
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Office for Reparations
requesting reports, records, documents or
information from governmental  authorities or any
other sources;
(r) to establish  in addition to any unit or division
specifically mentioned in this Act, such committees,
divisions and units as are required for the effective
administration and functioning of the Office for
Reparations;
(s) to enter into such contracts as may be necessary for
the exercise of the powers and the achieving of the
objectives of the Office for Reparations;
(t) to request and receive assistance necessary for the
achieving of its objectives, from any State,
governmental, provincial or local authority or agency,
or any officer thereof, or from any other person or
body of persons;
(u) to create, manage and maintain a database which will
include all particulars concerning recommendations
made with regard to reparations to be granted to
aggrieved persons. Such database shall also include
details of reparations previously granted by any other
State authority or agency;
(v) to periodically inform aggrieved persons or
representatives of such aggrieved persons of the
status of the applications made for reparations, and
to respond in a timely manner to queries related to
the progress of such applications;
(w) to manage funds that will be used to provide
reparations to eligible aggrieved persons through
the Office for Reparations and which will be used in
operationalizing this Office; and
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 12 -->

11Office for Reparations
(x) to do all such other things as are necessary for the
exercise  and discharge of its powers  and functions
or to achieve its objectives.
12. (1) In formulating Policies on Reparations, and issuing
guidelines, the Office for Reparations shall -
(a) consult through appropriate methods, aggrieved
persons, organizations representing aggrieved
persons and any other authority, person or  body of
persons; 
(b) ensure the availability at all times of Advisors with
relevant expertise to advise the Office for Reparations
with regard to gender responsiveness, and the
specific needs of aggrieved persons who are women,
children and persons with disabilities;
(c) be guided by the principles of non-discrimination,
victim-centrality and fairness, and with due
consideration to the special needs of women, children
and persons with disabilities;
(d) have due regard to all relevant factors, including –
(i) the seriousness of the violation of the
aggrieved person’s rights;
(ii) the impact, including continuing physical,
psychological and economic impact, of such
violation on the aggrieved persons; 
(iii) the need to provide special measures for
vulnerable aggrieved persons including
women, children, and persons with disabilities;
5
10
15
20
25
Formulation
of Policies on
Reparations.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Office for Reparations
(iv) the need to account for reparations already
received by the aggrieved persons with regard
to the violation of the right in question;
(v) in the case of the award of monetary
reparations, factors to be considered, including
availability of resources, and in deciding the
manner of payments including between lump
sum payments and staggered payments, the
best interests of the aggrieved persons;
(vi) the appropriateness of non-monetary
reparations;
(vii) in granting individual reparations which are
monetary, the need to restrict such reparations
to aggrieved persons who have the most
serious grievance;
(viii) the need to priorities the grant of monetary
reparations considering the severity of the
violation of the aggrieved person’s rights, the
indigence of the aggrieved persons and the
availability of resources;
(ix) the need to formulate a scheme of distribution
where multiple relatives make claims with
regard to a deceased or missing person;
(e) in the case of collective reparations, have regard to
the need to ensure- 
(i) non-discrimination, facilitation of reconciliation
and sensitivity to the experiences of all
aggrieved persons;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 14 -->

13Office for Reparations
(ii) that the design of such reparations should be
informed by consultations with relevant
aggrieved persons, organizations representing
such aggrieved persons and any other
authority, person or body or persons.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt, it is specifically provided
that the receipt of reparations shall not preclude aggrieved
persons from pursuing any remedy available in law to such
persons, against any person who may have violated the rights
of such persons.
(3) Aggrieved persons shall be informed of their ability to
appear before any other appropriate authority, person or body
of persons, by the Office’s outreach unit of the Office for
Reparations.
(4) The Office for Reparations shall coordinate with the
OMP and other relevant institutions, in obtaining information
with regard to aggrieved persons who have appeared before
such institutions, regardless of whether such persons have
submitted applications to the Office for Reparations.
13. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other written law, except in the exercise and performance of its
powers and functions under this Act, every member, officer
and servant, appointed to the Office for Reparations shall
preserve and aid in preserving confidentiality with regard to
matters communicated to them in confidence, except to the
extent that the requirement of confidentiality is waived by the
person providing such information.
(2) The Office for Reparations shall take all necessary steps
including technical safeguards to ensure the security of all its
databases and data. 
5
10
15
20
25
30
Confidentiality.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
PART  III
SECRETARIAT
14. (1) The Office for Reparations shall have a Secretariat
which shall be charged with the responsibility for the
administration of the affairs of the Office for Reparations. 
(2) The Office for Reparations shall appoint a Director
General, who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Office
for Reparations.
(3) There may be appointed, by the Office for Reparations,
such other officers and servants as may be necessary to assist
the Office for Reparations in the exercise and performance of
its powers and functions.
15. (1) At the request of the Office for Reparations, any
officer in the public service may with the consent of that
officer and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
assigned the subject of Public Administration, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Office for Reparations for such
period as may be determined by the Office for Reparations or
with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.
(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Office for Reparations, the
provisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to him.
(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Office of Reparations, the
provisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the National
Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to him.
25
Secretariat.
Appointment
of public
officers to the
staff of the
Office for
Reparations.

<!-- page 16 -->

15Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
PART  IV
FINANCE AND REPORTING
16. (1) The Office for Reparations shall have its own
fund.  There shall be credited  to the fund of the Office for
Reparations-
(a) all such balances as on the date of the
commencement of this Act that are lying to the credit
of the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and
Industries Authority, with regard to claims made to
the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and
Industries Authority, in terms of the Rehabilitation
of Persons, Properties and Industries Authority Act,
No. 29 of 1987;
(b) all such sums as may be voted by Parliament from
time to time for the purposes of this Act;
(c) all such sums as may be received by the Office for
Reparations by way of donations, grants or gifts,
whether local or foreign:
Provided that all foreign funds shall be channelled
through the External Resources Department.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums as
may be required to defray any expenditure incurred in the
administration and implementation of this Act and all such
sums as are required to be paid out of the Fund by or under
any provision of this Act.
17.  The salaries of the members of the Office for
Reparations shall be determined by Parliament, and be
charged on the Consolidated Fund, and shall not be
diminished during their terms of office.
Fund of the
Office for
Reparations.
Salaries of
members of
the Office for
Reparations.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
18. (1) The financial year of the Office for Reparations
shall be the calendar year. 
(2) The Office for Reparations shall cause proper accounts
to be kept of its income and expenditure, and assets and
liabilities. 
(3) The accounts of the Office for Reparations shall be
audited by the Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
19. The Office for Reparations shall submit annual
reports, including its audited accounts, to Parliament, and
shall also cause such reports to be made public within a period
of one month of such reports being submitted to Parliament.
PART  V
GENERAL
20. (1) If any person-
(a) wrongfully resists or obstructs any person
authorized under this Act in the exercise of
the powers conferred on him;
 
(b) wrongfully hinders or obstructs the Office for
Reparations in the exercise and the
performance of its powers and functions; 
(c) willfully provides false information to the
Office for Reparations; or
(d) discloses any confidential information in
contravention of the provisions of this Act,
such person shall be guilty of the offence of contempt against
the authority of the Office for Reparations.
Financial
year.
Reporting.
Offences.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
(2) Where the Office for Reparations has reasonable
grounds to believe that a person has committed the offence
of contempt against the authority of the Office for
Reparations, the Office for Reparations shall report such
matter to the Court of Appeal. Every offence of contempt
committed against the authority of the Office for Reparations
shall be punishable by the Court of Appeal as if it were an
offence of contempt committed against the Court of Appeal.
 
21. (1) Except as provided in section 25 of this Act, no
criminal proceedings shall be instituted or maintained against
any member, officer or servant appointed to the Office for
Reparations in respect of any act done in good faith or
purported to be done or committed to be done in good faith
by such person under this Act.
(2) Any order, decision, act or omission of the Office for
Reparations or any member, officer or servant appointed to
the Office for Reparations thereof may be questioned in
proceedings under Article 126 or 140 of the Constitution.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), no civil
proceedings shall be instituted or maintained against any
member, officer or servant appointed to the Office for
Reparations in respect of any act done in good faith or
purported to be done or omitted to be done in good faith by
such person under this Act.
(4) Any expenses incurred by such member, officer or
servant appointed to Office for Reparations as referred to in
subsections (1), (2) or (3) in any civil or criminal proceeding
instituted against such person in any court in respect of any
act done or purported to be done or omitted to be done by
him under this Act, shall, if the court holds that such act was
done or omitted to be done in good faith, be paid out of the
fund, unless such expense is recovered by such person in
such proceedings.
30
Protection
from Action.

<!-- page 19 -->

18 Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
22. (1) The Office for Reparations may make rules for
matters which rules are required to be made. 
(2) Every rule made under this Act shall be placed before
Parliament and published in the Gazette within a reasonable
period not exceeding three months.
(3) The Policies on Reparations and guidelines approved
by the Cabinet of Ministers shall be placed before Parliament
and published in the Gazette within a reasonable period not
exceeding three months.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, Policies
on Reparations and guidelines authorizing disbursement of
funds shall be placed before Parliament for approval and
published in the Gazette  within a reasonable period not
exceeding three months, and any disbursement in terms of
such Policies on Reparations and guidelines shall only be
effected after such approval.
 
23. (1) The members of the Office for Reparations (for
the limited purpose of their functions under this Act) and the
officers and servants shall be deemed to be public servants
for the purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19), the Bribery
Act (Chapter 26) and the Evidence Ordinance (Chapter 14).
(2) The Office for Reparations shall be deemed to be a
scheduled institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act
(Chapter 26), and the provisions of that Act shall be construed
accordingly.
24. (1) The Office for Reparations may delegate to the
Chief Executive Officer, or any other member or officer thereof,
any of its powers and functions.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer, member or officer to whom
any of the powers or functions of the Office for Reparations
has been delegated shall exercise and perform such powers
and functions subject to the general or specific directions of
the Office for Reparations.
30
Rules.
Members &c.
deemed to be
public
servants.
Delegation of
Powers.

<!-- page 20 -->

19Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
25. The entertaining of any application from, or the grant
of reparations to, any aggrieved persons or representatives of
such aggrieved persons shall not result in the civil or criminal
liability of any other person.
26. (1) The Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and
Industries Authority Act, No. 29 of 1987 is hereby repealed
(in this Act referred to as the repealed Act).
(2)  Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act– 
(a) all movable and immovable properties including
files, records, documentation, computers, data
storage devices of the Rehabilitation of Persons,
Properties and Industries Authority established
under section 2 of the repealed Act, subsisting
on the date of commencement of this Act, shall
with effect from the date of commencement of
this Act vest in the Office for Reparations
established under section 3 of this Act; 
(b) all contracts and agreements entered into by or
with the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and
Industries Authority established under section 2
of the repealed Act, subsisting on the date of
commencement  of this Act, shall, with effect
from the date of commencement of this Act, be
deemed to be contracts and agreements entered
into by or with the Office for Reparations
established under section  3 of this Act;
(c) (i) all officers  or servants  of the  Rehabilitation
of Persons, Properties and Industries
Authority established under section 2 of the
repealed Act who are offered  employment
in the Office  for Reparations established
under section 3 of this Act and  who express
a desire to accept such employment,  shall
become  members of the staff  of the  Office
30
No civil or
criminal
liability of
any other
person.
Repeals,
savings and
transitional
Provisions.

<!-- page 21 -->

20 Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
30
for Reparations and  shall be employed  on
terms not less favourable  than their terms of
employment in the Rehabilitation of Persons,
Properties and Industries Authority;
(ii) where any officer or servant of the
Rehabilitation of  Persons, Properties and
Industries Authority established under
section 2 of the repealed Act, express a
desire–
(aa) not to accept employment in the
Office for Reparations; or
(bb) to accept employment in the Office
for Reparations, but in view of the
nature of the services performed by
him in his employment in the
Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties
and Industries Authority, he cannot
be accommodated in the staff of the
Office for Reparations,
 
be paid compensation  in terms of a voluntary
retirement  scheme  approved by the Cabinet
of Ministers;
(iii) until  such time as an appropriate decision is
made by the relevant authority with regard
to the cadres and salaries of the Office for
Reparations, the approvals made and
prevailing in respect of the cadres and salaries
of the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties
and Industries Authority on the day
immediately  preceding the date of
commencement of this Act shall be deemed
to be  an approval of the cadres and salaries
of the Office for Reparations;

<!-- page 22 -->

21Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
(d) all actions and proceedings instituted by or against
the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties and
Industries Authority established under section 2
of the repealed Act, and pending on the date of
commencement of this Act, shall, with effect from
the date of  commencement of this Act, be deemed
to be actions and proceedings as the case may be,
instituted by or against the Office for Reparations
established  under section 3 of this Act and may
accordingly  be continued and completed;
(e) all judgments and orders made in favour or against
the Rehabilitation of Persons, Properties  and
Industries Authority established under section 2
of the repealed Act, and  remaining unsatisfied on
the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall, with effect from
the date of commencement of this Act, be deemed
to be judgements and orders made in favour or
against the Office for Reparations established
under section 3 of this Act and be enforced
accordingly;
(f) all  the claims made to and all the programmes
commenced by the Rehabilitation of Persons,
Properties and Industries Authority  established
under section 2 of the repealed Act, on the day
immediately  preceding  the date of
commencement  of this Act,  shall be deemed  on
and after the date of commencement  this Act to be
the claims made to and all the programmes
commenced by the Office of Reparations
established under section 3 of this Act; and
(g) all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts and
liabilities of the Rehabilitation of Persons,
Properties and Industries Authority established
under section 2 of the repealed Act, on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement
30
35

<!-- page 23 -->

22 Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
30
of this Act, shall be on and after the date of
commencement of this Act to be interests, rights,
assets, obligations, debts and liabilities of the
Office for Reparations established under section 3
of this Act.
 
27. Unless the context otherwise requires, in this Act–
“aggrieved persons” mean –
(a) persons who have suffered a violation of
human rights or humanitarian law (as
contained in the First, Second, Third and
Fourth Geneva Conventions of 1949), as
applicable –
(i) in the course of, consequent to, or in
connection with the conflict which
took place in the Northern and Eastern
Provinces or its aftermath; or
(ii) in connection with political unrest
or civil disturbances; or
(iii) in the course of systematic gross
violations of the rights of individuals,
groups or communities of people of
Sri Lanka; or 
(iv) due to an enforced disappearance as
defined in the International
Convention for the Protection of all
Persons from Enforced
Disappearance Act, No. 5 of 2018;
(b) relatives of a deceased person or, a person
missing in the circumstances referred to in
paragraph (a);
Interpretation.

<!-- page 24 -->

23Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
25
30
“collective reparations” mean, such measures as
are intended to recognize the right to an
effective remedy and benefits to the
communities or groups of aggrieved persons
and shall include-
(a) means of remembrance of deceased
persons, including memorials;
(b) development of infrastructure;
(c) educational programmes, training, and
skills development programmes;
(d) community development programmes
or services; and
(e) other appropriate programmes as
identified by the Office of Reparations
in consultation with affected
communities;
“human rights” mean, all fundamental rights
recognized by the Constitution and rights
contained in Acts of Parliament enacted to
give effect to international human rights
treaties which have been ratified by Sri Lanka;
“individual reparations” mean, such measures as
are intended to recognize the right to an
effective remedy and benefits an individual
aggrieved person and shall include -
(a) any monetary payment or material
benefit provided to an aggrieved
person;
(b) micro-finance and concessionary loans;
(c) educational programmes, training, and
skills development programmes;

<!-- page 25 -->

24 Office for Reparations
5
10
15
20
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
(d) administrative assistance, and welfare
services including psycho-social
support provided to an aggrieved
person;
(e) measures of restitution, including the
provision of land and housing; and
(f) other appropriate measures identified by
the Office for Reparations;
“relatives”, in relation to a deceased person or a
missing person include the following
persons:-
(i) spouse;
(ii) children;
 
(iii) parents ;
 
(iv) brothers or sisters;
(v) parents-in-law, brothers/sisters-in-law,
sons/daughters-in-law;
     
(vi) grandchildren and grandparents;
“reparations”  include, individual and collective
reparations.
28. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail. 

<!-- page 26 -->

25Office for Reparations
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING