

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 04.01.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2209$3 - 2021 ckjdß ui 04 jeks i÷od - 2021'01'04
No.  2209/3  -   MONDAY ,  JANUARY  04,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notiﬁcations
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS ACT, No. 44 OF 1980
Notice under Section 13 (2)
REVISION OF REGISTERS OF ELECTORS 2020
ELECTORAL DISTRICT - NO. 10 - JAFFNA
Notice is hereby given under Section 13 (2) of the Registration of Electors Act, No. 44 of 1980, that,
 1. List “A” containing names of persons in the Electoral register who are dead or have become disquali ﬁed; and 
 
 2. List “B” containing the names of persons whose name do not appear in the electoral register but now eligible to be 
included in the Register.
relating to the above electoral district have been complete as per the extra ordinary gazette No. 2209/3 dated 04.01.2021 and 
that the register in operation and such lists or portions thereof are open for inspection during ofﬁce hours as follows:
                  Places of Exhibition  Register and Lists or Portion thereof for Exhibition  
 
 I. District Election Of ﬁce  Complete copy of the electoral register in force for the above 
  Jaffna/Kilinochchi District   Electoral District and copy of the related “A” and “B” Lists
 II. Each Divisional Secretariat  Portion of the copy of the electoral register in force containing all  
      polling District lying within the Divisional Secretary’s area and copy  
      of the related “A” and “B” Lists
1A-   G 36361 — 41  (03/2022)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'04
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 04.01.2021
2A
 III. Each Local Authority  Portion of the copy of th electoral register in force containing all  
   Polling Districts lying within the area of authority of the Local  
   Authority and copy of the relevant “A” and “B” lists.
 IV . Each Grama Niladhari’s Of ﬁce  Portion of the copy of the electoral register in force containing all  
      polling District lying within the relevant Grama Niladhari’s Division  
      and copy of the related “A” and “B” Lists 
 2. Where a person who is quali ﬁed in accordance with the said Registration of Electors Act to have his name entered 
in the register of electors for the above Electoral District and whose name has been omitted from such register 
and from List “B” or whose name has been included in the List “A” and who claims to have his name inserted 
or retained as the case may be, in the register, that person or any other person on his behalf may make a claim in 
writing to the registering Ofﬁcer, Election Ofﬁce, Jaffna/Kilinochchi substantially in Form “A” and “B” as the case 
may be speciﬁed in the Schedule to the said Act. Every such application should reach the registering Ofﬁcer, Jaffna/
Kilinochchi within four weeks from the date of publication of this notice in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. (From 05th Janaury 2021 to 01st February 2021) 
 3. Any person whose name appears in the Register of Electors or the List “B” for the above Electoral District may 
object to the inclusion in such register of this own name or the name of any other person appearing in such register 
or List “B” or to the insertion or retention of the name of any claimant in the register, in duplicate to the Registering 
Ofﬁcer, Election Ofﬁce, Jaffna/Kilinochchi substantially in Form “C” or “D” as the case may be speci ﬁed in the 
schedule to the said Act. Every objection to the inclusion of any name in the register should reach the Registering 
Ofﬁcer, Election Of ﬁce, Jaffna/Kilinochchi within four weeks from the date of publication of this notice in the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. Every objection in the insertion or retention of the name 
of claimant in the register should reach the Registering Ofﬁcer within fourteen days from the date on which a notice 
containing the names of claimants is exhibited at the Elections Ofﬁce, Jaffna/Kilinochci. 
This notice will be exhibited at the Elections Ofﬁce Jaffna/Kilinochchi on 19th January 2021 and 02nd February 2021.
 4. Forms for the purpose of making any claim or objection to a claim made by a person to the insertion or retention 
of the name of any other person in the register may be obtained from the above Elections Of ﬁce, each Divisional 
Secretariat, Each Grama Niladhari’s Of ﬁce and of ﬁce of each Local Authority in the Administrative District of 
Jaffna/Kilinochchi
 
 R. C. A
MAL RAAJ,
 Assistant Registering Ofﬁ cer,
 Electoral District - No. 10
 Jaffna 
Elections Ofﬁ ce,
Jaffna
04th January 2021.
EOG 03-0871
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.