

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1826$23 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ ui 04 jeks nodod - 2013'09'04
No. 1826/23 - WEDNESDAY ,  SEPTEMBER  04,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
I, Prasanna Ranatunga, The Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education, Local
Government and Provincial Administration, Power and Energy, Manpower and Employment, Economic Promotion and Trade
of the Western Province hereby notify that the Pre-school Statute No. 01 of 2013 of Western Province Provincial Council
described in the schedule below has been passed by the Western Province Provincial Council on 05th of February 2013 and
has been assented by the Hon. Governor of the Western Province on 04th of July 2013.
P
RASANNA RANATUNGA,
Chief Minister and  the Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Land Education,  Local Government and  Provincial Administration,
Power and Energy,  Manpower and Employment and  Economic Promotion
of the Western Province Provincial Council.
Western Province.
Chief Ministry of the Western Province Provincial Council,
Shrawasthi Mandiraya,
Sir Marcus Fernando Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
13th  August 2013.
Western Province Provincial Council Pre-school Statute No. 01 of 2013
A statute for Registration, Supervision, Administration and Monitoring of Pre-schools and for instroduction of
model Pre-schools and for providing provisions incidental thereto and for repealing Pre-school Statute No. 03 of 2003.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Be it enacted by the Western Province Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
01. This statute shall be cited as the Western Province Pre-school Statute No. 01 of 2013 and shall
come into effect on such date assented by the Governor of the Western Province.
Enactment
Short name and
the date of
operation.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
2A
PART  I
OBJECTIVES
02. Objectives of this statute shall be as follows.
(1) Registration, regulation and supervision of all Pre-schools being conducted in the
province ;
(2) Improvement of knowledge, skills and attitudes of all teachers engaged in Pre-school
service of the province ;
(3) Deciding and implementing policies on Pre-school education of the province ;
(4) Deciding standards for Pre-schools ;
(5) Making parents of Pre-school children and public aware of Pre-school education ;
(6) Co-ordination of functions of Government, Non Government and private institutions
engaged in activities related to Pre-schools of the province and conduction of guidance
and Co-ordination needed to operate then as per provincial policy ;
(7) Creation of an environment favourable to accustom children of early childhood for regular
education by developing their skills through activities oriented for total development of
them through Pre-schools of the province ;
(8) Preparation of background needed to lead a happy and playful early childhood for the
children ;
(9) Providing background needed for a Co-operative lifestyle by respecting art, religious and
cultural needs of the people of the province ;
(10) Establishment of a provincial fund referred to as “Provincial Pre-school Development
Fund”.
PART  II
ADMINISTRATION, SUPERVISION AND FUNCTIONS
03. A Pre-school unit that shall be hereinafter referred to as “Western Province Pre-school
Unit” shall be established and that unit shall be under the supervision of Provincial
Department of Education.
04. (1) There shall be a Director as the head of the Pre-school unit ;
(2) That Director shall be a Class I Officer of Sri Lanka Education Administrative Service and
shall be appointed by the Secretary ;
(3) Administrative, supervision and operation of all activities of the Pre-school unit shall be
perfromed by the Director ;
(4) The Director may assign any of his powers, duties or functions under this statute to any
officer.
05. Pre-school unit shall discharge duties mentioned below :
(1) Registration, supervision and regulation of institutions engaged in activities prescribed
for children between 3-5 years referred to as Pre-school or any other name in the
province ;
(2) Providing guidance and assistance needed to improve Pre-school educational activities
in the province ;
Establishment of
Pre-school unit.
Appointment of
Pre-school
director.
Duty of the
Pre-school unit.
Objectives.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
Pre-school
advisory
committee.
(3) Providing facilities and services needed for children with special educational needs of the
Pre-school age ;
(4) Conduction of training institutions to train Pre-school teachers and offering certificates
for those who obtained proper training ;
(5) Conduction of in-service training sessions and training workshops related to renovate
and update Pre-schools ;
(6) Grading Pre-schools of the province considering relevant standards and service facitlities
provided  ;
(7) Prescribing administrative and management standards for all Pre-schools conducted in
personal level by Government, Local Government and Various Organizations in the
province ;
(8) Providing guidance and regulation for maintenance of standards of all Non-Government
Training Institutions in National Level engaged in Training Pre-school Teachers of the
Province ;
(9) Planning and implementation of programmes to make public aware of the importance of
Pre-school education.
PART  III
PRE-SCHOOL ADVISORY COMMITTEE
06. A Pre-school advisory committee been herein after referred to as “Advisory Committee”
consisting of the following members should be appointed by the Minister :
(1) Pre-school Advisory Committee shall consist of hereinafter referred to as appointed
ex-officio members.
(a) Secretary of the Ministry of Education of Western Province or an office of executive
grade nominated by the Secretary ;
(b) Director of Education of Western Province or his representative ;
(c) Director of Helath Services of Western Province or his representative ;
(d) Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services of Western Province or his
representative ;
(e) Commissioner of Local Government of Western Province or his representative ;
(f) Legal Officer of the relevant Ministry in charge of the subject.
and
(2) Five persons as appointed members with qualifications on the subject field nominated by
the Minister including three Pre-school teachers registered in the Western Province with
experience of more than ten years.
07. (1) Chairman of the Advisory Committee shall be the Secretary of Provincial Education or his
representative and the Pre-school Director shall be the Secretary of this Committee ;
(2) An appointed member shall hold post for a period of three years unless he vacates his
post by death, resignation or removal from the post ;
(3) The quorum of  the Advisory Committee shall be five members;
Ex-officio
members.
Appointed
members.
Chairman & the
secretary of the
pre-school
advisory
committee.
4 — PG  1747

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
4A
Disqualification
for appointment
to the advisory
committee.
(4) An appointed member shall be deemed to have vacated his post if he does not attend
three consecutive meetings on a reason considered to be unsatisfied by the Advisory
Committee ;
(5) The Minister may at any occasion remove an appointed member of the Advisory Committee
presenting reasons ;
(6) An appointed member may resign from his post informing by a letter addressed to the
Minister informing his registration ;
(7) In an occasion where an appointed member vacates his post earlier by death, resignation,
or removal or any other reason the Minister considering the provisions of Sub-section
06(2) shall appoint another person as the successor of the member. Any successor appointed
on behalf of that member shall hold office for the unexpired period of his predecessor ;
(8) An appointed member shall be eligible for reappointment except a member removed from
his post under above Sub-section (5) ;
(9) The Advisory Committee shall meet at least once in three months ;
(10) An allowance decided by the Minister with the concurrence of the Provincial Council
Minister in charge of the Finance subject may paid to the members participated in each
Adviroy Committee Meeting.
08. If a person :
(1) Is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or ceased to be a citizen ;
(2) Becomes to be of unsound mind or insane ;
(3) Becomes bankrupt ;
(4) Is condemned or serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment on a verdict issued by
a Criminal Court in Sri Lanka or any other country ;
(5) Holds a financial connection which will adversely affect the discharge of duties and
functions of the Advisory Committee ;
(6) Is declared to be guilty for an offence under this statute.
shall be ineligible to be appointed or to proceed as a member of the Advisory Committee.
09. A dicision or an action taken by the Advisory Committee shall not be conacelled on account of
a vacancy in the Advisory Committee or a defect in the appointment of a member.
10. Advisory Committee shall discharge and perform the duties and funtions mentioned below :
(1) Advising to prepare policies with regard to registration, regulation and supervision of
Pre-schools in the province ;
(2) Providing necessary advices and guidance to the Pre-school unit ;
(3) Issuing instructions to the Director on necessary occasions with regard to implementation
of provisions of this statute ;
(4) Providing instructions to prepare a curriculum to be used for all Pre-schools with the
guidance of the National Education Institute and to implement in all Pre-schools.
Duties &
functions of the
advisory
committe.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
PART  IV
PRE-SCHOOL  DEVELOPMENT FUND
11.  There shall be established a fund referred to as Pre-school development fund of the Western
Province :
(1) A control board shall be appointed with regard to functions of fund control and that shall
be consisted of following officers.
(a) A Senior Officer appointed by the secretary ;
(b) Director (Accounts & Payments) of the Chief Secretary’s office ;
(c) Additional Educational Director (Development) of the province ;
(d) Provincial Co-ordinating Director in charge of primary subject ;
(e) Chief Accountant of the Provincial Department of Education ;
(2) A Senior Officer appointed by the secretary shall be the Chairman of this control board ;
(3) All sums granted by the Provincial Council from time to time and all sums earned by
Pre-school unit and other aids and donations shall be credited to this fund ;
(4) Expenses bored to achieve objectives of this statute may paid by this fund ;
(5) Provisions of Section 154 of the Constitution shall be applied with regard to auditing
accounts of the fund.
PART  V
Standards for Pre-schools
12. (1) Pre-schools shall consist of following basic and minimum facilities :
(a) Allocation of minimum building accommodation of 10sq. feet per child ;
(b) Preparation of toilet system as one toilet for every 25 children ;
(c) Preparation as to provide air supply to 1/7 of cubic extent from the room of the
building ;
(d) Intense protection of the Pre-school premises by a protective wall or a protective
fence ;
(e) Maintenance of a first aid box with sufficient equipment and medicine ;
(f) Availability of facilities for playing ;
(g) Preparation of the Pre-scholl premises in a pleasant enviornment and consistance of
basic sports equipment ;
(h) Occupying registered teachers to the ratio of 20:1 ;
(i) Availability of adequate furniture and equipment and their maintenance with an
attractive outlook for the mental satisfaction of children ;
(j) Preparation of a suitable place for observance of religious rites.
(2) A Pre-school shall not be established in a damaging or dangerous environment or in an
area within 100 meters from such a place.
Pre-school
development
fund.
Auditing
accounts.
Basic &
minimum
facilities in
pre-schools.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
6A
PART  VI
REGISTRA TION OF PRE-SCHOOLS
13.  No Pre-school not registered from the date this statute comes into effect shall be conducted
in the province.
14. (1) Any Pre-school that have been already registered under Pre-school Statute No. 04 of 2007
may not need to re-register and any unregistered Pre-school shall be given a concessionary
period of four months to register under this statute.
(2) Any Pre-school commenced after putting this statute into operation shall be registered
within four months after the establishment of this statute.
15.  The Director may have power to register any Pre-school which fails to register under Sub-
section 14(1), (2) mentioned above with a levy of an additional fee of 50% for the lapsed time if any request
had been forwarded with reasonable and justifiable reasons within six months.
16. Due registration shall be paid by the applicant for registration.
17. Any person who commences any Pre-school or conduct any Pre-school violating provisions
of this statute shall be guilty for an offence under this statute.
18. When a request is made to the Director in write by the entrepreneur to register any institution
conducted in the name of Pre-school or other name at the date of operating this statute as per provisions
of the statute the Director may refuse registraion by giving reasons for that, if that request is not in
conformity with provisions of this statute.
(1) On every occasion when such a request is refused reasons for refusal shall be informed to
the entrepreneur who made the request within one month from the date of the request ;
(2) In an occasion when such request in refused the entrepreneur may submit on appeal to
the Minister in that regard within one month ;
(3) On receipt of scuh an appeal the Minister shall refer it to the Advisory Committee and
obtain observations and recommendations and confer his decision to the appealer within
three months ;
(4) The decision taken by the Minister in this regard shall be final and conclusive.
19. (1) The Director shall maintain a register on Pre-schools which have been conducted as a
Pre-school at the date of operation of this statute and registered as per provisions of the
statute after this statute comes into effect and newly established and registered as per
provisions of the statute at the date of operation of the statute ;
(2) Every registered Pre-school shall be provided with a number and a certificate by the
Director ;
(3) Director may have the power to cancel the registration of a registered Pre-school if such a
Pre-school is not conducted as per provisions of the Statute ;
(4) Director may have the power to cancel registration of a registered Pre-school if the
entrepreneur of a Pre-school has been declared guilty for an offence on a decision given
by a court in a matter with regard to Pre-schools.
Pre-schools are
to be registered.
Request to be
made for
registration.
Director’s power
to refuse
registration.
cancelling
registration of
Pre-school.
Register of
registered Pre-
school to be
maintained

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
PART  VII
REGISTERING PRE-SCHOOL TEACHERS
20. Persons who work as Pre-school teachers and who expects to work as Pre-school teachers at
the date of operation of this statute shall pass six subjects including Mathematics with a cerdit for Sinhala
in General Certificate on Education (Ordinary Level) Examination shall have followed a diploma in an
instutition recognized by the Advisory Committee except for Pre-school  Teachers who have served before
Pre-school Statute No. 04 of 2003 comes into operation and has already registered. If have passed six
subjects including Mathematics with a credit for Sinhala in General Certificate on Education
(Ordinary Level) and passed three subjects at one sitting in General Certificate on Education shall have
followed a training course on Pre-school education recognized by the Advisory Committee.
Nevertheless the Pre-school teachers who have not fulfilled above basic qualifications and have
not registered up to now through employing with a service of more than 10 years by the date of operation
of this statute shall pass an examination held by the Advisory Committee.
21. (1) If the persons apply for registration have fulfilled qualifications as per provisions of the
Statute shall be registered and shall be issued an identity card.
(2) Director may have power to cancel the registration of a Pre-school teacher is a person
registered as a Pre-school Teacher has not fulfilled qualifications as per provisions of the
Statute or has found guilty for a criminal offence on a decision given by a court.
(3) A prescribed fee shall  be paid by Pre-school Teachers for registration.
PART  VIII
OFFICERS AND PUNISHMENTS
22. (1) ( a) Any person who cause violation, breach of rules framed under his Statute or provisions
of this Statute ;
(b) Any person who cause disturbance, obstrution for the duty of an officer who discharge
duties under this Statute ;
(c) A person who causes inducement, abatement for the offences mentioned in
above (a)b.
shall be guilty for an offence under this Statute.
(2) Any person who found guilty for any offence as per above Sub-section (1) shall be
subjected to a fine not less than Ten Thousand Rupees (Rs. 10,000) and not more than
Fifty Thousand Rupee (Rs. 50,000) or a term of imprisonment of not more than six months
or both when found guilty in a summery trial before a Magistrate.
(3) The Magistrate may order for closing a Pre-school cancelled registration under Sub-section
19(3), (4) of this Statute in addition to punishment mentioned in Sub-section (2) mentioned
above.
(4) Magistrate may order for closing a Pre-school conducted without registration under
Sub-section 14(1), (2) of this Statute in addition to punishments mentioned in Sub-section
(2) mentioned above.
Educational
qualifications of
pre-school
teachers.
Pre-school
teachers to be
registered.
Cancelling
registration of
pre-school
teachers.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
8A
23. (1) Pre-school Statute No. 04 of 2003 of Provincial Council of Western Province shall be
repealed thereupon from the day the assent of the Governor of the Western Province
received for this Statute.
(2) Nevertheless the Pre-schools and Per-school Teachers registered under Pre-school Statute
No. 04 of 2003 shall be considered as Pre-schools and Pre-school Teachers registered
under this Statute also.
(3) Functions discharged under Pre-school Statute No. 04 of 2003 shall be considered as
fucntions discharged under this Statute.
PART  IX
GENERAL PROVISIONS
24. (1) The Minister may have power to make rules on above 02 (3), (4), (6), (10), 05, 11(3) (4), 12
(1) (2), 16, 19 (2), 21(3) with regard to provisions mentioned in the Statute with regard to
execution of this Statute.
(a) Every such rule shall be published in the Gazette and shall be operative from the date
of publication or from a later date specifically mentioned in the rule ;
(b) It shall be submitted to the Provincial Council for approval within three months after
the publication in the Gazette and any rule not approved by the Provincial Council
shall be deemed to have been repealed from the date of non approval without prejudice
to any action executed under that rule.
(2) Any rule made under this section shall not be valid until approved by the Provincial
Council and publishing that approval in the Gazette.
25. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires :
“Provincial Council” means, Western Province Provincial Council ;
“Minister” means, the Minister in charge of the subject of education ;
“Director” means, the competent authority appointed to function under this Statute ;
“Pre-school” means, any institution which operates by using activities prescribed for the
development of early chilhood children between three to five years in the province ‘
“Prescribed Activities” means engaging in activities suitable for the development in the
aspects of physical, mental, emotional, social, language, environment skills and aesthetic,
manipulating skills and virtuous habits relevant for total development of the early
childhood child ;
“Advisory Committee” means, Pre-school Advisory Committee ;
“Entrepreneur” means, any person or institution which commences and conduct a
Pre-school ;
“Pre-school Teacher” means, a person registered under the Statute as a Pre-school
Teacher ;
“Children with Special Educational Needs” means, children of Pre-school age in a physically
and/or mentally retarded condition approved by a medical recommendation ;
Interim
provisions.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'04
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.09.2013
“a person” means, a person or an entrepreneur or a volunteer organization or statutory
body which conducts a Pre-school or a teacher serves in a Pre-school or any employee
of the staff or an external person or persons ;
“Basic Sports Equipment” means, equipment used for the activities of climbing, hanging,
floating, swinging, slipping, creeping, and throwing ;
“Damaging or Dangerous Places” mean, places where public halls or wine stores, film halls,
video centers, funeral halls, fish and meat shops, unprotected factories, garbage collecting
yards, places which heavily subjected to sound or air pollution, places where poisonous
animals can be resorted, open wells, ponds, streams and water ways, rivers, tanks or
dangerous slopes are situated very closely to the land where a Pre-school is situated.
26. If there is an inconsistency between Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
09 - 605
Sinhala text to
prevail in an
inconsistency.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.