

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1688
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1686
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"030 – 2017 cQ,s ui 28 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'07'28
No. 2,030 –  fRiday ,  July  28, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th august, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 04th august, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.–  (i)  Parts ii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,029 of 21.07.2017 were not published.
1683-B 81192- 5,403 (07/2017)
Note.–   K. K. Piyadasa foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 21, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1684
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1685
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1686
Posts – vacant
NATIONAL  SECRETARIAT fOR ELDERS
Internal Auditor
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the qualified applicants 
for filling the above Vacancy. 
01. Minimum qualifications.– Recruitment of External 
candidates :
 1. A Degree in Management or subject field of 
commerce from a university, recognized by the 
university Grant commission ;
  or
   Qualifying the intermediate Examination of the 
institute of chartered accountants of Sri lanka 
(icaSl) ;
  or
   Qualifying the intermediate Examination of the 
chartered institute of Management accountants 
(ciMa) ;
  or
   Qualifying the intermediate Examination of the 
Association of Chartered Certificated Accountants 
(acca) ;
  or
   Higher National diploma in accountancy 
(HNda) - Sri lanka
   institute of advanced technological Education 
(SliatE)
  and
   the minimum one (01) year experience in the 
subject field related to the post after obtaining the 
qualifications.
Recruitment of the internal candidates (following 1 or 
2 qualifications)
 (1) Completion of above qualifications required for 
the external candidates.
 (2) Completion of minimum five (05) years 
satisfactory service in a post related to the field 
in (Junior Management) JM Service category.
02. Salary :
 1. Salary Scale : MM 1-1 - 2006 a
  Rs. (53,175 - 10 x 1,375 - 15 x 1,910 - Rs. 95,575).
  adjustments would be done subject to the 
New salary revisions in accordance with the 
Management Services circular No. 02/2016.
03. Nature of appointments.– Regulations on Employment -
 1. this post is permanent.
 2. The benefits of the Employees' Provident Fund 
(EPF) and The Employees' Trust Fund (ETF) 
could be availed by the qualified post holder.
04. Regulations on Service. – Selected candidates will 
be subject to the provinces as stipulated in the Protection 
of the Rights of Elders act, No. 09 of 2000 and general 
conditions, regulations and rules governing appointments 
to the government service and any amendments made or to 
be made thereafter to the said regulations and rules.
05. Age limit.– Not less than 22 years and not more than 
45 years on the closing date of the applications. the upper 
age limit does not apply to internal candidates.
06. Method of Recruitment .– Selection will only be 
made on merit at a structured interview.
07. Deadline for accepting applications.– applicants 
should have completed the required period of time by the 
closing date of applications.
08. Date of request.– candidates should send their 
applications with all the necessary biographical data under 
the registered cover to reach on or before 11.08.2017 to 
the following address. the post should be mentioned 
at the top left hand corner of the envelope. incomplete 
applications and applications received after the closing 
date will be rejected without any notice. the candidates 
serving in the Government sector should send their 
applications through the Head of the relevant department/
institution.   
 Suvinda S. Singappuli,
 director,
 National Secretariat for Elders.
2nd floor, Block d,
Sethsiripaya - Stage ii
Battaramulla.
13th July, 2017.
           
  (For office use only) 
MiNiStRy of Social EMPowERMENt,
 wElfaRE aNd KaNdyaN HERitaGE
national Secretariat for elderS 
recruitment of graduateS to the poSt of internal auditor
 01. Name with initials Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
 02. Name in full :––––––––––.  

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1687
 03. Permanent address :––––––––––.
 04. current Residential address :––––––––––. 
 05. National identity card No. : 
 06. telephone Number : 
  land line :––––––––––.            Mobile :––––––––––.
 07. date of Birth: 
  y ear :–––––––.  Month :–––––––. date :–––––––.
 08. age (as at 11.08.2017) : 
  y ears :––––––––. Months :––––––––. days :–––––––.
 09. Nationality :––––––––––.
 10. Marital Status :
  (Put P Mark in the relevant cage)   
 
  unmarried Married
  
 11. Indicate in which qualification you apply for:
  (Put P Mark in the relevant cage) 
 
  under 1  under 2
 12. the details about this degree :
 (i) university :––––––––––.
 (ii) date on which the degree was obtained :–––––––.
 (iii) Special/ General :––––––––––.
 (iv) Medium :––––––––––.
 (v) Class : first/ second/ upper/ lower :––––––––––.
 13. The details of other qualifications if the degree has not 
been obtained :––––––––––.
 14. Service Experience :
 (i) the post in which you are serving at present :             
––––––––––.
 (ii) Date on which you have been confirmed in the post 
:––––––––––.
 (iii) the Grade in which you are serving at present : 
–––––––––.
 (iv) date of appointment/ promotion to the said Grade 
:––––––––––.
 (v) Period of Service to the date of 24.03.2017 :                  
–––––––––.
 15. Experience in the relevant field :––––––––––.
 16. Other Educational Qualifications/ Professional 
Qualifications (Post Graduate Degree/ Diploma) :             
––––––––––.
 17. Language Proficiency (Put the P mark in the relevant 
cage) :
Very 
Good
Good Normal Weak
Sinhala
tamil
English
 
Declaration of the applicant :
  
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me 
in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. further, i certify that i was not subjected to the 
termination of employment or compulsory retirement in 
the public service due to inefficiency or I was not vacated 
the post in the past. i know for certain that according to the 
rules and regulations of the above recruitment, if it is found 
before selection that any particulars furnished here are false 
or incorrect. i am liable to be cancelled my candidature 
before the recruitment or aftermath and dismiss at any time 
if such information is found to be false or incorrect after i 
am appointed to this post. 
  
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the  head of the Department/ Institution :-
(this is only for the candidates who are being employed 
in Public Service/ Provincial Public Service/ State               
co-operation/ Statutory Boards)
i recommend and forward the application of Mr./
Mrs./Miss ………………… holding the post of 
………………………… on permanent/ temporary/ casual 
basis in this Ministry/ department/ institution. i certify that 
his/ her work and conduct are satisfactory and that he/ she 
has not been subjected to any disciplinary action. He/ She 
can be released from the service without a successor if he/ 
she is selected to this post. 
     
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of the department/ institution.
date :–––––––––––. 
Name of Head of department/ institution :–––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
07–904

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1688
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
NATIONAL  INSTITuTE  Of  SOCIAL 
DEvELOPmENT  (NISD)
School of Social Work
(ministry of Social Empowerment, Welfare & 
kandyan heritage)
the NiSd is recognized by the university Grants, 
commission as a degree awarding institute under
Section 25a, of the university act, No. 16 of 1978
MaStER of Social woRK
(MSw) - 2017/2018
aPPlicatioNS will be entertained by the National 
institute of Social development for the programme 
mentioned above from local & SaaRc candidates.
the NiSd, a statutory body of the Ministry of Social 
Empowerment, welfare & Kandyan Heritage is proud to 
announce the commencement of the seventh intake for this 
course.
the aim of this course is to provide professionally 
and managerially competent manpower and specialized 
services to the social welfare system and the institutional 
network in the sphere of Social development.
 
aMENdMENt 
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment to the Posts belonging to the related Officer Category on the Open Basis (Audio Visual 
Officer, Publicity Officer, Micro Photographer)
EDUCATIONAL Qualifications relevant to the Post of Audio Visual Officer mentioned in paragraph 02 (I) of the 
notification with the title "Recruitment on the open basis to the Posts belonging to the Related Officer category (Audio 
Visual Officer, Publicity Officer, Micro Photographer) of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous medicine" 
published of the Gazette No. 1,950, dated 14.01.2016 of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka under the Notice   
No. 01-570 are amended as 
"Should visual subject as a subject from university recognized by the University Grants Commission".
02. It is hereby notified that the part relevant to the post of Audio Visual Officer in the said Gazette notification 
and the applications received will be cancelled. 
03. Accordingly, applications will be called again only for the post of Audio Visual Officer up to 28.08.2017 
other facts therein shall remain unchanged. 
 Janaka SugathadaSa, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine. 
"Suwasiripaya", No. 385, 
Rev. Baddegama wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10, 
Sri lanka.
07–1011
entry Requirements.– the participants should meet one 
of the following minimum entry requirements:
•	 a Bachelor's degree from a recognized University 
or from a recognized higher educational institution 
with a first or second class honours ;
 or
•	 A Bachelor's degree from a recognized University 
or from a recognized higher educational institution 
with an ordinary pass and a minimum of a one year 
post-graduate diploma ;
 or
•	 A Bachelor's degree from a recognized University or 
from a recognized higher educational institute and a 
minimum of three years post qualifying experience 
working in social welfare organization(s)
 or
•	 A professional qualification equivalent to Bachelor's 
degree considered on a case by case basis by the NiSd 
on the recommendation of the Board of Graduate 
Studies and minimum of three years post-qualifying 
experience working in social welfare organization(s)
 and

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1689
•	 a good working knowledge of English
Medium : English
duration : t wo academic years (friday 
evening and Saturday full day)
total course fee : Rs.227,000/-
course fee for SaaRc candidates will be issued on 
request.
further information and application forms can be 
downloaded from our website: www.nisd.lk
Duly filled application forms should be sent through the 
registered post on or before 15.08.2017 to the Registrar, 
National institute of Social development, 488 a, Nawala 
Road, Rajagiriya, Sri lanka.
Supporting documents to be attached to the application
•	 Certified copies of Degree and other Certificates
•	 Letters from employer confirming experience
"Application for MSW - 2017/2018" should be written 
on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
National institute of Social development
tel : 0112 882506/7, 0112076021
fax : 0112 882502
E-mail : nisd@slt.lk
web : www.nisd.lk
 director General, 
 National institute of Social development.
07-859
–––––––––––––––
RECRuITmENT (OPEN) TO ThE POSTS 
bELONG TO mANAGEmENT ASSISTANT NON-
TEChNICAL SEGmENT - 02 - 2017
aPPlicatioNS are called from eligible candidates to 
fill the vacancies on open basis in the following posts of 
the  Ministry of Health, Nutrition & indigenous Medicine 
- 2017.
•	 Medical supplies assistant
•	 House warden
•	 diet Stewards
 02. Educational Qualifications Relevant to the post :
 (a) House warden :- Should have passed six (06) 
subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/ tamil/ 
English language, Mathematics & other two 
Subjects in one sitting at the G.c.E (o/l) 
Examination.
and
  Should have passed at least one subject (except 
common General test) at the G.c.E. (a/l) 
examination.
 (b) diet Stewards :- Should have passed six (06) 
subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/t amil/
English language, Mathematics, Home Science 
& two other Subjects in one sitting at the 
G.c.E. (o/l) Examination.
and
  Should have passed at least one subject (except 
common General test) at the G.c.E. (a/l) 
examination.
 (c) Medical Supplies Assistant:- Should have 
passed six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
Sinhala/tamil/English language, Mathematics 
and Science & one other Subject in one sitting 
at the G.c.E (o/l) Examination.
and
  Should have passed chemistry at the G.c.E. 
(a/l) Examination, (only for the post of 
Medical Supplies assistant)
 03. experience:-
 (a) a post of diet Stewards and Medical Supplies 
assistant - Not applicable
 (b) House warden - Should have two years 
experience as a warden in an institute 
afflicted to Government or a private institute 
recognized by Government.
 04. Vocational Qualification :-
 (a) diet Stewards and House warden - Not 
applicable
 (b) Medical Supplies assistant - Should 
have followed a course in computer word 
processing/ type writing/ shorthand of not 
less than 06 months. which is recognized 
by tertiary and  V ocational Education 
commission.
 05. Other Qualifications:-
 (a) Should be not less than 18 years and not more 
than 30 years of age by 28.08.2017
 (b) only male applicants are eligible to apply for 
the post of Medical Supplies assistant and 
female applicants are eligible to apply for the 
post of diet Stewards.
 (c) Should be a Sri lankan citizen.
 (d) Should be excellent in character.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1690
 (e) Should have satisfied the qualifications required to recruit to the post as at the closing date of application in 
all respects.
 (f) Should be fit physically and mentally to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
 06. Method of Application:-
 (a) applications should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form of application appended to this 
notification using both sides of a paper of size A4 and numbers from 01.0 to 5.1 should appear on the first side 
of the page and numbers from 5.2 to 8.0 should appear on  the second side. the application should be perfected 
in the own hand writing of the candidate.
 (b) The receipt obtained by paying Rs.500/- to the credit of the account of "Director General of Health Services 
Collection of Exam fees" No. 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon, Traprobane Branch should be affixed so as not 
be detached, on the relevant place of the application. (Please keep a copy of the receipt)
 (c) Candidate's signature in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or a Justice 
of the Peace or a commissioner for oaths or a Notary Public or an attorney - at - law, or a commissioned 
Officer in the Armed Forces or an officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an officer holding a 
permanent post in the public  sevice who gets an annual consolidated salary more than Rs.334,452/-
 (d) The words "Recruitment to the Post of …………- 2017" should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope of size 9" x 4" in which the duly completed application is enclosed and it should be sent to reach 
Director (Administration) 03, Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine "Suwasiripaya", 385, 
Rev. Baddegama wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 10 under registered post on or before 28.08.2017.
 07. Employees in Government or Semi Government Services should submit applications through the respective Head 
of department.
 08. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged and applications which will be received after the closing date 
will be rejected. the applications which are not complying to the above terms and the  relevant specimen from given in 
this notification will be rejected without any notice.
09. Method of Recruitment.– From the applicants who have satisfied qualification given in the notification, those who 
obtain the highest marks on the basis of the results of written examination which is conducted by the Secretary to the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine will be recruited to Grade iii of the  relevant post considering 
the number of vacancies after calling them for an interview which is held to check the physical fitness and eligibily of 
candidates.
10. Details of Written examination :-
 Question paper Syllabus Duration Maximum Minimum  
    Marks Pass  marks
  
 1.  General t esting logical explanation and general 02 hours 100 40%
  knowledge knowledge in relation to the field
 2.  Intelligence Testing the candidate's ability of 01 1/2 hours 100 40% 
  Test understanding the meaning, quantification 
   and co-relation between the time and space 
   through the conclusions and responses of 
   candidates to the problems given in terms,
   numbers and pictures.
 (a) Marks will be deducted for eligible hand writing and spelling mistakes in each written answer sheet.
 (b) Minimum 40% marks should be obtained for each subject. appointment will be made in the order of 
merit considering the enlisting number of vacancies.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1691
11. Identity of Candidates.– candidates who have forwarded applications which are correct in all respects will 
only be called for the written examination. following documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at  the 
written examination.
 (a) Nationa l identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons.
 (b) Valid passport
 (c) Valid driving license.
12. terms of engagement and conditions of service.
 (a) y ou should be subject to the policy decisions taken by the Government in future in respect of pension 
scheme assigned to you.
 (b) this post is on probation for a period of three (03) years.
 (c) You should obtain the proficiency in other official language in addition to the language you entered 
the service within 05 years from the date of appointment in terms of Public administration circular 
01/2014 and circulars incidental to there.
 (d) You should pass the first efficiency bar examination within 03 years.
 (e) Selected applicants shall be subjected to the scheme of recruitment of Management assistant Non - 
technical Segment 2 Service category and amendments made to there from time to time. Establishments 
code, financial Regulations, Procedural Rules issued by the Public Service commission, and orders and 
regulations issued by the Government.
13. the numbers of appointments will be decided considering the number of existing vacancies. accordingly, 
if the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine decide to grant permanent appointments, actions will be 
taken to appoint the candidates to the Grade iii of the posts in terms of the conditions in the scheme of recruitment and 
considering the number of vacancies. the posts of diet Stewards, Male/female House warden and Medical Supplies 
assistant carry the salary scale of MN - 01- 2016 Rs.27140-10x300-11x350-10x495-10x660-45,540 in terms of Public 
administration circular No. 03/2016 and the salaries will be paid according to the scheme ii of the said circular.
14. Applications which are not in compliance with the specimen form of application, not satisfied required 
qualifications, not paid the fees properly, furnished incomplete particulars and delayed are rejected without any notice. 
complaints on loss or delay of applications in the post are not accepted.
15. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in the 
application. If the above certificates are proved be the counterfeit, action will be taken to refer to the Criminal Investigation 
department for legal action, to cancel the appointment, to dismiss him from the post and to enter his name in the black 
list of those who are not permitted to be re-employed in the Public Service after taking disciplinary actions against him.
16. The decision of the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine's will be final on 
any matter not covered by this Gazette notification. Secretary of Ministry of Health, Nutrition & Indigenous Medicine will 
make the final decision to fill the vacancies or not to fill the vacancies or to fill some of the vacancies.
17. in the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, tamil and English texts of this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Selected applicants will only be informed in writing and result sheet will be published on the website  www.
health.lk
 
Janaka SugathadaSa,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition & indigenous Medicine.
"Suwasiripaya", 
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama wimalawansa thero Mawatha, 
colombo 10, 
Sri lanka, 
10th July, 2017

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1692
Application
calliNG aPPlicatioNS foR tHE oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN to REcRuit to tHE PoStS of 
MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNt NoN-tEcHNical SEGMENt - 2 (MN - 01 - 2006 (a) SERVicE catEGoRy iN 
MiNiStRy of HEaltH, NutRitioN & iNdiGENouS MEdiciNE - 2017
Medium for the post :- applied to the post and the preference
 Sinhala  - 1. 1. ...............................................
 t amil  - 2, 2. ...............................................
 English  - 3, 3. ...............................................
(Mention the relevant number in the cage)
01.   (a)  Name of the applicant with initials:- (in Block capitals) e.g. - Mr. SilVa a. B.
   Mr./ Mrs./ Ms. :–––––––––––––.
  (b) Name in full : (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (c) Name in full: (in Sinhala or tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02.  (i) Postal address:- (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) Permanent address:- (in Sinhala or tamil) :–––––––––––––.
  (iii) district of Residence :–––––––––––––.
  (iv) t elephone No. :–––––––––––––.
  (v) address to which the admission for the examination should be posted - (in English Block letters)  :–––––––––.
03.  (i) date of Birt h:- year Month  date
  (ii) National identity card Number :
  (iii) age as at the clo sing date of applications : y ears Months days
04. I.  Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka:- Yes      No                (Mark √ in the relevant cage)
05.  Educational Qualifications :- (Relevant certificates should be attached) :
  (i) G.c.E. (ordinary level) Examinations : y ear :–––––––––––. index No. :–––––––––––.
 
No. Subject Result No. Subject Result
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
  (ii) G.c.E. (advanced level) Examination : year :–––––––––––. index No. :–––––––––––.
 
No. Subject Result No. Subject Result
1. 3.
2. 4.
  (iii) Experience:- Yes   No      (Mark √ in the relevant cage)
   
   Give relevant particulars :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1693
  (iv) V ocational Qualifications (Relevant to the post) :-  Yes             No (Mark √ in the relevant cage)
   Give relevant particulars :–––––––––––.
06.  Have you ever been convicted before a court of law? Yes            No      (Mark √ in the relevant cage)
  Give relevant particulars, if yes :–––––––––––.
07.  Certificate of the applicant :–––––––––––.
i hereby certify that the particular furnished here in are true and correct to my knowledge and belief, and that 
receipt obtained by paying examination fees is affixed. I accept that if any information herein found to be incorrect or false 
prior to selection my application will be rejected and if so found after selection i am liable to be dismissed from service 
without any compensation.
Affix here the receipt obtained by paying the fees. Keep a photocopy of the receipt
   ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
i certify that Mr./ Mrs./ Miss……………………………. is known to the personally and he/ she placed his/ her 
signature in my presence on ……………..
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––.
full name of the attester :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Should be authenticate with the official stamp)
07-848
 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'07'28
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.07.2017
1694
