

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
w;s úfYI
wxl 1956$25 - 2016 ud¾;= ui 02 jeks nodod - 2016'03'02
No.1956/25  - WEDNESDAY  MARCH  02,  2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 1A
CENTRAL   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Early Childhood Development Charter No. 03 of 2015
I, hereby publish to the notice of all, the Early Childhood Development Charter No. 03 of 2015, adopted by the Central
Provincial Council of the Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on 17th November 2015, assented by Hon. Governor of the
Central Province on 04th December 2015.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finacne and Planning,
Law and  Order, Local Government and Provincial
Administration, Manpower, Education, Cultural Affairs, Tourism,
Lands, Co-operative Development, Trade and Commerce,
Food Supplies and Distributional Affairs and
Investment Co-ordination of the Central Provincial Council.
Chief Minister's Office,
Central Provincial Council,
Kandy,
12th February 2016.
EARLY   CHILDHOOD   DEVELOPMENT   CHARTER   No. 3  OF  2015   OF  CENTRAL   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
The Chief Minister and Ministry of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Local Government and Provincial
Administration, Human Resources, Education and Cultural Affairs, Tourism, Land, Co-operative Development, Trade
and Commerce, Food Supplies and Distribution, Investment Coordination and Portfolios which are not taken under any
other Ministries
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOPMENT CHARTER NO. 3 OF 2015 OF  CENTRAL PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
A Charter to repeal the sub clause 12(2)(xii) of Section ii of Education Charter No. 03 of 1990
of the Central Provincial Council to and make provisions to establish an Early Childhood Development
Unit; to register, monitor, govern and manage Early Childhood Development Centres; and for matters
connected therewith or incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the Central Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
as follows: -

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
2A
1. This Charter, to be known as Early Childhood Development Charter of Central Provincial
Council, will take effect on the day it is approved by the Governor of the Central Province.
2. This Charter will rescind the sub clause 12(2)(xii) of Education Charter No. 03 of 1990.
PART  I
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  EARLY  CHILDHOOD  DEVELOPMENT  UNIT
3. The term ‘Early Childhood’ of a child refers to the period between conceiving of a child to
five years of age. But for the provisions of this charter, the period between a child’s birth to
the day he/she enters formal school education is considered as the early childhood.
4. An Early Childhood Development Unit (hereafter referred to as ‘Unit’) will be established
within the Central Province under the Chief Ministry to implement the objectives specifically
stated in this Charter.
5. A person shall be appointed by the Provincial Governor on the recommendation of the
Provincial Chief Minister as the director (hereinafter referred to as ‘Director’) who shall be
the head of the Unit. The Director should be an officer of an all-island service who is serving
in the Central Provincial Council.
6. (1) (a) It is the responsibility of the Director to achieve the objectives of this Charter.
He shall act under the supervision and governance of the board of management.
(b) The Secretary of the Chief Ministry shall be the immediate supervising officer
of the Director.
(2) The Director can retain the office for a period of 03 years from the date of appointment
unless his service is terminated due to death, resignation, removal from office or leaving
of office.
(3) Unless removed from office as stated in sub clause (2), a person can be eligible to be
re-appointed to the post.
(4) If the position of the Director becomes vacant, a new Director should be appointed and
until the position is filled, the Secretary of the Chief Ministry or an officer of an all-
island service nominated by him can be appointed to carry out the duties of the Director
for the remaining period of the said position.
7. The staff needed for the purpose of implementing the objectives of the Unit can be appointed
from the Provincial Public Service.
8. Objectives of the Unit shall be as follows:
(1) To improve the early childhood development and education in the Province.
(2) To register, manage and monitor Early Childhood  Development Centres (hereinafter
referred to as ‘Centres’.)
(3) To create an environment that promotes the overall development of children in Early
Childhood including physical and mental development.
 Short title and
date of operation
Early Childhood
Establishment of
Early Childhood
Development Unit
of Central
Province
Appointment of a
Director for the
Unit
Responsibilities
and governance
of Director
Term of office of
the Director
Being reappoint
for the post of
Director
Appointing staff
for the Unit
Director position
becoming vacant
Objectives of the
Unit

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
(4) To ensure the rights of the children in Early Childhood and to provide them proper
protection.
(5) To take other steps towards the development of Early Childhood.
9. The duties and authority of the  Unit are as follows :
(1) To register, monitor and regulate all institutes and organisations within the Central
Province, working towards Early Childhood Development.
(2) To provide guidance and aid for improving the Early Childhood Development activities.
(3) To set forth the minimum qualifications for the instructors of Centres.
(4) To train the Instructors of Centres.
(5) Carrying out training institutes to train and develop instructors of Centres and issue
certificates after grading according to professional qualifications.
(6) To grade the institutions involved in Early Childhood Development by evaluating their
staff and the facilities available.
(7) To set forth minimum standards for administration and management of Centres in par
with national standards.
(8) To educate the community on the importance of Early Childhood Development.
(9) To temporarily suspend or halt the operation of any Centre in the Central Province
which does not conform to the provisions of this Charter.
(10) To charge fees for any particular service offered by the Unit.
(11) To introduce books, documents and forms to be maintained by the Centres and to promote
their usage.
(12) To coordinate with external parties for performing duties relating to Early Childhood
Development.
(13) To implement suitable programmes for children with special needs, their parents and
the community.
(14) To enter the Centres and to inspect whether they are operated in accordance with proper
standards.
(15) Establishment, monitoring and management of Centres and matters incidental to, by
levels of Provincial Early Childhood Development Forum, District Forums and Divisional
forums.
(16) Other duties and authority that might be needed for the Early Childhood Development
in the Central Province.
Duties and
authority of the
Unit

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
4A
PART  II
APPOINTMENT  OF   MANAGEMENT AND  ADVISORY   COMMITTEES
10. There shall be established a Management Committee and an Advisory Committee (hereafter
referred to as ‘Committees’) to carry out the tasks stated in this Charter.
11. There shall be appointed a committee by the Provincial Chief Secretary called Management
Committee consisting of 13 members for managing and monitoring the tasks of the Unit.
12. The management committee shall consist of following members:
(1) Secretary of the Provincial Chief Ministry
(2) Secretary of the Provincial Ministry of Education ;
(3) Provincial Director of Education ;
(4) Provincial Commissioner of Local Government ;
(5) Provincial Director of Health Services ;
(6) Provincial Commissioner of probation and child care services;
(7) Provincial Director of Social Services ;
(8) Director of national Children’s Secretariat or a person nominated by him;
(9) Deputy Inspector General or a person nominated by him;
(10) Director of Plantation Human Development Trust or a person nominated by him;
(11) Director of Early Childhood Development Unit ;
(12) Two members from the subject area nominated by the Chief Minister;
13. The Secretary of the Chief Ministry shall be the Chairman of the management committee ex-
officio, and the Director of the Unit shall be the Secretary of the management committee.
When the Secretary of the Chief Ministry is absent, another member can be appointed as the
Chairman only for the purpose of conducting that particular meeting.
14. The management committee shall perform following duties and exercise following authorities:
(1) Preparation of policies necessary to carry out duties pertaining to this Charter and
presenting them to the Provincial Council through the Chief Minister.
(2) Providing instructions on making and implementing regulations and circulars required
to carry out the duties and implement the policies mentioned in this Charter.
(3) Providing instructions and approval for governmental and non-governmental parties
engaged in early childhood development to operate within the province.
(4) Issuing instructions for the Unit to implement the provisions of this Charter.
Management and
Advisory
Committees
Management
Committee
Composition of
the Management
Committee
Chairman and
Secretary of
Management
Committee
Duties and
authority of
Management
Committee

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
(5) Providing other instructions and guidance required to manage and monitor the functions
of the Unit.
15. (1) The quorum for a management committee meeting is 7 and decisions should be made
with the agreement of the majority of the participants of the meeting. The Chairman of
the committee should be given a decisive vote when the votes are tantamount.
(2) When the Chief Ministry and Ministry of Education come under one ministry, the
Secretary to the Ministry will have two votes.
16. An advisory committee of 19 members should be appointed to provide instructions and
guidance for the management committee to carry out its duties.
17. (1) Advisory committee shall include 15 ex-officio members and 4 members appointed by
the Chief Minister who are not members of the management committee. The Chief
Minister shall appoint the members of the advisory committee.
(2) The ex-officio members of the advisory committee are as follows.
i. Chief Secretary of the Central Province ;
ii. Secretary of the Provincial Chief Ministry ;
iii. Secretary of the Provincial Education Ministry ;
iv. Secretary of the Provincial Health Minstry ;
v . One of the District Secretaries of the Central Province ;
vi. Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) ;
vii. Provincial Deputy Inspector General of Police ;
viii. Provincial Director of Education ;
ix. Director of National Child Secretariat or a person nominated by him;
x. A representative of the academic staff nominated by the Vice Chancellor of the
University of Peradeniya;
xi. Director of Plantation Human Development Trust or a person nominated by him ;
xii. Director in charge of primary education, Department of Education, Central
Province.
xiii. The three Chairmen of Early Childhood Development District Forums of the three
districts of the Central Province.
(3) Members of the advisory committee appointed by the Chief Minister should be as follows;
I. A representative with a sound knowledge on early childhood development;
Decisions of
Management
Committee
Advisory
Committee
Composition of
the Advisory
Committee

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
6A
II. A representative engaged in early childhood development affairs in Central
Province;
III. Two representatives of non-governmental organisations actively involved in early
childhood development affairs in Central Province or foreign donor organisations.
18. Provincial Chief Secretary shall be the Chairman and Secretary of the Chief Ministry shall be
the Secretary of the Advisory Committee.
19. Official term of the Advisory Committee is three (03) years
20. The Advisory Committee shall prepare procedures related to the operation of the Advisory
Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Charter.
21. The role of the Advisory Committee is to provide advisory services to the Management
Committee in order to achieve the aims and objectives of this Charter.
22. A nominated member of a committee can hold the membership for a period of three (03)
years unless he die, resign, is removed from office or leave the office prematurely.
23. A member who misses three consecutive meetings without a acceptable reason and without
prior notice is considered to have left the membership, and a suitable successor should be
appointed by the Chief Minister after being notified by the Secretary of the committee.
24. A nominated member of a committee can be removed from the membership at any time by a
written notice of the Chief Minister.
25. A nominated member of a committee can send a written notice to the Chief Minister stating
his willingness to resign from membership, and the resignation will take effect once it is
accepted by the Chief Minister.
26. When a member position of a committee becomes vacant due to a member’s death, resignation
or removal from office, the Chief Minister shall, in accordance with provisions of section 12
and 17, appoint another member in his place. A member appointed such shall hold office for
the unexpired part of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
27. A member appointed once can be reappointed
28. A committee shall assemble at least once in three months
29. A person becomes ineligible to be appointed to or continue as a member of a committee, if;
(1) he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka, or
(2) he is, under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any other country, found or declared to be
of unsound mind or bankrupt; or
(3) he is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri
Lanka or any other country or fined to a value of Rs.1500.00 or above; or
(4) the Chief Minister decides the person’s financial or other interests are likely to affect
prejudicially to his discharge of duties as a member of the committee; or
(5) Has committed an offence under this Charter.
Official term of the
Advisory
Committee
Chairman and
Secretary of
Advisory
Committee
Operation of the
Advisory
Committee
Role and
functions of the
Advisory
Committee
Membership
period of
Committees
Loss of
membership of
Committees
Removal from
membership of a
Committee
Resignation from
membership of a
Committee
Member positions
becoming vacant
Reappointing for
membership
Disqualifications
for membership
Committee
meetings

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
30. Any action, decision or legal activity taken by a committee will not become null and void due
to any vacancy of a committee or a shortcoming in appointment of a committee member.
31. The committee members may be paid remunerations stipulated by Chief Minister under the
approval of the Governor.
PART  III
FINANCE  AND  ACCOUNTING  OF  EARLY  CHILDHOOD  DEVELOPMENT  UNIT
32. (1) There shall be a financial account (hereinafter referred  to as ‘Account’) for the Early
Childhood Development  Unit in accordance with the orders of the Provincial  Treasury.
Following funds should be credited to the Account:
(a) Funds provided for the Unit by the Provincial  Council from time to time.
(b) Funds received from the Governmental  and  Non-Governmental Organisations.
(c) Money collected or charged by the Unit from its activities.
(d) Other aids and donations.
(2) Money required for the activities of the Unit should be utilised as decided by the Board
of Management.
(3) An Annual Financial Statement shall be prepared for  each financial year including
income, expenditure and   all other transactions. The subject Minister should present
the financial accounts for the previous year before 31st of March of each year.
33. The financial year for the Account shall be from 1st of January  to 31st of December.
34. The Auditor General shall audit the Provincial Unit each year.
PART  IV
Registration of Centres
35. From the day this Charter is in effect and thereafter, no Centre should be operated within
the Central Province without registering under the Unit.
36. (1) Once this Charter is in effect, all Centres within the Central Province should obtain
Registration from the Unit.
(2) The proprietor, manager or the administrator of each Centre within the Province must
apply to the Director for the registration of the Centre within three months from the
date this Charter takes effect.
(3) When any proprietor, manager or the administrator who failed to apply under sub clause
(2) requests with just and apparently fair reasons, the Director can register the Centre
concerned charging a specific fee.
(4) A Centre applying under (2) or (3) sub clauses may be given a temporary registration
and a three year grace period to fulfil the standards if it is found to be lacking human,
physical or other accepted standards required by a Centre.
Nullifying of an
action of a
committee
Payment of
remuneration for
members of a
committee
Early Childhood
Development
Account
Auditing of
accounts
Financial year of
the Account
Registration of
Centres
Registration of
existing Centres

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
8A
37. Any Centre commencing after the date this Charter takes effect must register by applying to
the Director prior to the commencement.
38. (1) The qualifications, charges and other provisions required to register or extend the
registration of Centres are to be stipulated by the Minister through regulations.
(2) The applicant shall pay a fee stipulated by the Director to register or extend the
registration of Centre.
(3) The Director has the authority to charge an additional fee/impose a fine for extending
the period of registration and for being late to register.
39. When an application has been forwarded for the registration of a Centre, the Director shall
issue a certificate of registration if he is satisfied that the Centre has fulfilled the requirements
for registration. If he decides that the Centre has failed to fulfil the requirements, the application
can be rejected with reasons indicated.
40. (1) When a Centre has not fulfilled the requirements for registration, a Temporary Certificate
of Registration can be issued with the condition that those requirements should be
fulfilled within a period of three (03) years.
(2) The director has the power to cancel the temporary certificate of registration if he finds
that the  requirements have not been fulfilled within the period  of three (03) years.
41. (1) It is possible to appeal to the Secretary within 30 days from the date the notice is received
on rejection of an application under clause 39.
(2) When such an appeal is received, the Secretary should forward it to the Management
Committee and obtain the recommendations and observations of the Committee. Then
the he should hand it over to the Chief Secretary together with his observations before
three (3) months have elapsed.
(3) The Chief Secretary holds the power to take decisions on the appeals forwarded by the
Secretary and the Chief Secretary’s decision will be final and conclusive.
42. (1) A certificate of Registration issued under clause 39 is valid for a period of one year.
Application for extending the registration should be forwarded to the Director three
months before the registration expires.
(2) The Director can reject the extension of registration if he finds a Centre is not conducted
according to relevant standards and other requirements.
(3) It is possible to appeal to the Secretary within 30 days from the date the notice is received
on rejection of extension of registration. The Secretary’s decision will be final and
conclusive.
(4) Any Centre that is operated without extending the registration is considered as a Centre
that has not been registered under this Charter.
43. Any person or board of people operating an unregistered Centre violating the provisions of
this Charter will be considered to have committed an offence under this Charter.
44. (1) The Unit shall issue a Certificate of Registration with a unique number to every Centre
registered and this certificate should be displayed in the Centre.
Qualifications
and charges for
registration or
extending
registration of
Centres
Issuing of
certificate of
registration
Issuing of
temporary
certificate of
registration
Appeals
regarding
rejected
applications
Renewing
annual
registration
Operating an
unregistered
Centre
Display of
certificate of
registration
Registration of
new Centres

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
(2) The Unit shall maintain a document on the Centres registered under it.
(3) A Certificate of Registration cannot be transferred to another party without the consent
of the Unit. Such a transfer will be null and void.
(4) Provisions pertaining to proper transfer of a Certificate of Registration should be
enforced by the Minister through regulations.
45. The Director has the power to cancel a Certificate of Registration on the decision of the
Management Committee under following circumstances.
(1) Violation of one or several of the basic requirements for registration.
(2) Failure to inform the Unit and get the registration information updated when the
ownership of a Centre changes.
46. Any governmental, private or non-governmental organisation operating in the Province must
register under the Unit for conducting courses or training programmes related to Early
Childhood Development.
PART  V
COMMON   PROVISIONS
47. (1) The minister can, inquiring Management Committee, prepare regulations and orders
pertaining to registration of Centres, minimum standards for Centres and other matters
required to fulfil the functions of this Ordinance.
(2) All such regulations/orders  prepared by the Minister should be implemented from the
date of its published in the Gazette or from a date specifically indicated in the order.
(3) All such regulations/orders  prepared by the Minister should be presented to the Provincial
Council for approval within a month from the date it is published in the Gazette. Any
regulations/orders which is not approved by the Provincial Council shall be considered
repealed with no effect to any action taken under the same regulations/orders prior to
the date it is rejected. The announcement on date of repeal of a regulations/orders should
be published in Gazette.
(4) The regulations and orders prepared under this Charter should come into power as
imposed by this Charter once they are approved by the Provincial Council.
48. Officers and employees of the Unit shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code and the establishment code.
49. The Unit shall be deemed to be a scheduled institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act
and the provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
50. (1) Violation of a provision or a regulation or order imposed under such provision of this
Charter, or obstructing or resisting an officer in the exercise of any power conferred on
him by this Charter is considered an offence.
Circumstances
where certificate
of registration
may be cancelled
Registration of
training institutes
Officers and
employees shall
deemed to be
public servants
Unit as a
scheduled
institution under
Bribery Act
Registration and
orders
Offenses and
punishments

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'03'02
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 02.03.2016
10A
Interpretation
In this Charter, unless the context otherwise required
“Province” means the Central Province
“Governor” means Hon. Governor of the Central Province
“Chief Minister” means Hon. Chief Minister of the Central Province
“Chief Secretary” means Chief Secretary of the Central Province.
“Provincial Council” means the Central Provincial Council.
“Centres” persons, board of people or institutes that develop skills of children in early childhood and Day Care
Centres that take care of such children.
“Director” means the person who is duly appointed as the director according to this Charter and/or the person who is
authorised to act on behalf of the above mentioned officer.
“Provincial Public Service” is as defined by Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987
“Instructors” mean the people involved in skills development in a Centre or Child Development Officers working in
Centres in plantations.
“Managers” mean the entrepreneurs owners and administration who are operating Centres.
“Special children” mean children who are in the ‘early childhood’ age group who should attend a Centre but with special
needs due to impaired eyesight, impaired hearing, being physically handicapped or impaired brain development.
“Person running a Centre” means any person, businessmen, voluntary organisation or incorporated body running a
Centre/Centres.
“Effective Date” means the date this Charter is approved by the Governor.
“Early Childhood Development Divisional Forums” mean forums established by the instructors engaged in skills
development in Centres of Divisional Secretariats.
“Early Childhood Development District Forums” mean forums established at district levels comprising Chairmen, Secretaries
and Treasurers of Early Childhood Development Divisional Forums.
“Early Childhood Development Provincial Forums” mean forums comprising Chairmen, Secretaries and Treasurers
of Early Childhood Development District Forums.
Words importing one gender shall include the other gender too.
In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil or English texts of this Charter, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
03-459
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
(2) Any person who commits an offence mentioned in subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence under this
Charter and, on conviction after a summary trial by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not more than ten
thousand rupees or an imprisonment for a term not less than six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment.