

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs.  4.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 24,  2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 20th April, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
YOUNG MEN’S BUDDHIST ASSOCIATION,
KOLONNAWA (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  NO . 25 OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa
(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009
1
Short title.
2 —PL 003015 —3,200 (06/2008)
[Certified on 20th April, 2009]
L. D. —O. Inc. 16/2006.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  YOUNG  MEN ’S BUDDHIST  ASSOCIATION ,
K OLONNAW A
WHEREAS an association called and known as the “Young
Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa”, has heretofore
been formed for the purpose of effectually carrying out and
transacting all objects and matters connected with the said
Association according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it is for the public advantage to grant such
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1.  This Act may be cited as the Young Men’s Buddhist
Association, Kolonnawa (Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Young
Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa (hereinafter referred
to as  the “Association”) or shall hereafter be admitted members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate with perpetual succession under the name and style
of “The Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)  and by that
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to protect and foster the Buddha Sasana, without
prejudice to the observance and practice of other
religions ;
Incorporation
of the Y oung
Men’s
Buddhist
Association,
Kolonnawa.
Preamble.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa
(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009
(b) to promote unity and co-operation among Buddhist
and to save the young generation from evil
practices.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perfom and execute all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or futherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, to open, operate
and close bank accounts and subject to the rules of the
Corporation made under section 6, to borrow or raise money
with or without security, to receive or collect grants and
donations, to invest its funds, and to engage, employ and
dismiss officers and servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules of the
Corporation made under section 6, be administered by a
Committee of Management consisting of the office bearers
and such number of other members elected in accordance
with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Committee of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the Executive Council of the Association
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act and who shall hold office until a
new Committee of Management is elected in accordance with
the rules of  the  Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law, for the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members, for the performance of
the duties of the Committee of Management and of the officers,
servants and agents of the Corporation, for the procedure to
be followed in the transaction of its business and generally
for the management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects.
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules.

<!-- page 4 -->

Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa
(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009
3
 
(2) Such rules may be altered, added to, amended or
cancelled in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have it’s own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, fees or grants for and on
account of the Corporation, shall be deposited to the credit
of the Corporation in one or more banks as the Board of
Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2)  The Committee of Management of the Corporation
shall cause proper books of accounts to be kept of the income
and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other
transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accounts and
Audit.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa
(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to,
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Association
on that date, shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
take and hold any property both movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by viture of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 6 and it shall have full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody
of such persons as may be determined by the Committee of
Management of the Corporation and it shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of two of
the members of such Committee of Management, who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Association.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Young Men’s Buddhist Association, Kolonnawa
(Incorporation) Act, No. 25 of 2009
5
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.