

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  
ɼ  ලංකා  ȝජාතාǦƵක  සමාජවා Ǐ  ජනරජ ෙɏ  ගැසŸ  පƴ ය 
අƯ ɪෙශෂ   
අංක 2151/41 - 2019 ෙනʣවැȼබə මස 28 වැǧ ȯහස්පƯǦදා  - 2019.11.28 
 
No. 2151/41 –  THURSDAY, NOVEMBER,  28,  2019 
EXTRAORDINARY 
(Published by Authority) 
 
PART I : SECTION (I)  —  GENERAL 
 
Government Notifications 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
 1A - G31588 - 27 (2019/11) 
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION 
 
Guidelines for the issuing of official media accreditation cards for the year 2020 
 
THE Department of Government Information issues official accreditation for professional journalists with the 
view of creating quality media practices and culture that enables them to perform their duties witho ut any 
obstruction, and to enhance the professional quality and dignity of journalists. 
 
An individual who collects news and information, edits the collected information, and communicates t hat 
information to subscriber/reader is considered as a news reporter/journalist for issuing of media ac creditation. 
Accreditation  will be issued only for professional journalists who are engaged in the said task. 
 
It is requested from all heads of print and electronic media institutions and heads of news and curr ent affairs 
sections, to take necessary action to recommend professional journalists only for issuing of this accreditation.  
 
The Head of the Institution/News Director/Chief Editor or the relevant authority should be responsib le for the 
schedule submitted by that media institution for obtaining accreditation.  
 
Relevant parties are expected to pay their attention to following documents and criteria which are r equired for 
the issuing of accreditation.   


<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකʣටස: (1) ෙŎදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.11.28 
PART  (I): SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2019 
Print Media 
 
 1.  Journalist  - No. 01 and 02 
 2. Photo Journalist  - No. 01 and 02 
 3. Provincial Journalists - No. 03 
 4. Freelance Journalists - No. 04 
 5. Media Administrator - No. 07 
 
Electronic Media  
(Radio and Television) 
 
1. TV Journalist  - No.  01 and 02 
2. Radio Journalist  - No.  01 and 02 
3. TV Camera Journalist  - No.  01 and 02 
4. Presenter   - No.  01 and 06 
5. Media Administrator  -  No.  01 and 07 
6. Technician   - No.  01 and 08 
7. Media service  - No.  01 and 09 
 
Web Journalist   - No. 10 
 
Government Media Officers 
1. Director Information / Information Officer/Media Secretary/Media official  - No.  05 
2. Media Services                      - No.  09 
 
Foriegn Media 
1. Local agents of Foreign Media and journalists who arrives temporarily to the island    - No. 11 
 
01.Basic criteria and documents required 
 
i. An applicant should possess at least six -month service as a journalist in a reputed media institution on 
permanent or contract basis. (Trainees are not eligible for Media Accreditation by the Department of 
Government Information) 
 
ii. The letter of request and the list of journalists should be prepared in alertter head of respective media institution 
and furnished to the Director General of Government Information under the certification of the Head/ Director 
General/Chief Executive Officer/General Manager/Chief Editor/ News Editor/Director News/Editor of me dia 
institution. His name, Designation, Signature, and Official seal should be indicated therein. The li st of 
journalists should be prepared in the format given.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii. Each page of the name list should be certified by the person who signs the requesting letter placing his signature 
and official seal. 
Serial No. Name  NIC Designation Divison 
attached to 
1. 
2. 
  
        

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකʣටස: (1) ෙŎදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.11.28 
PART  (I): SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2019 
iv. A photocopy of the official identity card issued by the media institution attested as true copy by the officer who 
certifies the list of journalists should be submitted for the verification of the designation. His s ignature and 
official seal should be indicated therein.  
 
v. In the event of not being able to produce the office identity card, a copy of the letter of appointm ent should be 
submitted under the attestation of person who certifies the list of applicants. His/her signature sh ould be 
indicated therein with name, designation and the official seal.  
 
vi. Applications related to 2020 Media Accreditation can be downloaded from www.dgi.gov.lk,the Departmental 
Official website or www.news.lk, the Government official news website. 
 
vii. In addition to the entire list of names, it is compulsory that a separate application should be cert ified by the 
Director General/Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director/Chief Editor/News Editor/ Manager informa tion/ 
Chief Editor/ Director News/ of the respective media institution with his signature and official seal. 
 
viii. Two colour photographs of the size of  1″x1.5″ taken within the last 06 months should be submitted along with 
the application. One of these photographs should be affixed to the relevant cage of the application. Photographs 
smaller than prescribed size will be rejected.  
 
ix. The validity of Media Identity Cards which are issued in 2020 expires on December 31, 2020. 
 
02. Institutional / Staff Journalists 
 
Staff journalists working in print and electronic media institutions should fulfill 'I’ to ‘IX’ Requirements indicated 
in (1) above. Newspapers, radio, television, web journalists and photo / video camera journalists fa ll into this 
category. 
 
03.Regional Correspondents  
 
i. Regional Correspondents will be provided Media Identity Cards valid for a period 2 years( 2020/2021), ie. The 
validity period of these Media Identity cards expires on the 31stof December2021. 
 
ii. Respective Media Institution should submit a list of Regional correspondents prepared in district to  the Director 
General of Government Information with following details. 
 
(a) Name of the Journalist 
(b) National Identity Card No.  
(c) Permanent Address 
(d) District and region covered by the correspondent 
(e) Contact Number of the Correspondent  
 
iii. The list of Regional Correspondents should be furnished to the Director General of Government Inform ation 
under signature of the Head/Director General/Chief Executive Officer/General Manager/ Director News/  Chief 
News Editor/Provincial News Editor of the institution. Each page should be certified by the same per son who 
certifies the list of names and his name, signature, designation and official seal should be indicated therein.  
 
iv.  The original and a soft copy of the regional journalists list should be furnished to the Director Ge neral of 
Government Information and the soft copy should be emailed to www.media.accre@gmail.com 
 
v.   Two colour photographs of the size of 1 ″x1.5″ taken within the last 06 months should be submitted with the 
application. One of these photographs should be affixed properly to the relevant space given in the application. 
Photographs smaller than prescribed size will be rejected.  
  
vi.  The heads/Chief Editors/News Editors/ Provincial News Editors of Media Institutions are requested to  submit 
only the names of the active reporters who are currently engaged in reporting. 

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A I ෙකʣටස: (1) ෙŎදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.11.28 
PART  (I): SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2019 
vii. Applications can be downloaded from www.dgi.gov.lk or www.news.lk websites and completed applications 
should be sent to the Director General of Government Information No.163, Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 05 
under a registered cover.  
 
viii. The term "Media Accreditation – Provincial Correspondent" should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. 
 
04. Freelance Journalists 
 
 i. Applicants must have worked continuously for at least one year as a freelancer with a nationally rec ognized 
electronic or print media institution. The following requirements should be submitted for the verification of service. 
 
ii. Certified photocopies or CDs of at least 12 New /Feature/Entertainment News, on current events publi shed by the 
applicant within the last six months should be submitted.  
 
iii. At least one of the print or electronic media institutions to which the applicant provides news , feature articles, 
timely programs should submit a letter in a letter heading of the media institute requesting the Dir ector General of 
Government Information to issue freelance Journalist accreditation confirming that he / she has been  providing 
news or programs continuously to the respective media institution. The letter should be certified by  the Head of 
Media / Director Information / Chief Editor indicating his name, signature and official seal. 
 
 
05.Government Media Officers 
 
i. Media Identity Cards for media officers in government sector are issued to the posts of Media Secret ary, Media 
Director/Information Officer/Photographer/Video Cameraman who are appointed officially for media pos ts in 
government ministries/departments/government affiliated institutions. 
 
ii. The Secretary or Additional Secretary of the respective Ministry should submit a written request to the Director 
General of Government Information attesting the names and designations of officers bearing the posts  above who 
are eligible to get media Identity Cards. The whole responsibility of the list of names provided is with the 
Secretary / Additional Secretary of the Ministry who certifies the same. Officers those who hold positions other 
than the above posts in media units are not issued media Identity Cards by the department of governm ent 
information. 
 
iii. When applying for media accreditations, a media unit of a semi government institution implemented un der a 
ministry, the Director General/General Manager of the institution should certify the list of officer s and the 
applications.  His/her signature, name designation and official seal should be indicated therein. 
 
06.Presenter 
 
i. Presenter Media Identity Cards are issued to news and timely program presenters in a reputed media institution. 
 
ii. Applicants of Presenter Media Identity Cards must fulfill all the requirements listed under the topic ‘Basic Criteria 
and Documents Required’ above. 
 
 
07. Media administrators 
 
i. Media administrators who directly contribute the media administration of a nationally reputed media institution are 
provided with Media Administrator Identity Cards. A Media Institution will be provided a maximum of 3 Media 
Administrator Identity Cards. 
 
ii. Marketing Promotion Directors / Managers or other officers working in the Marketing Promotion field in a Media 
Institutions will not be provided with media identity cards.  

<!-- page 5 -->

5A I ෙකʣටස: (1) ෙŎදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.11.28 
PART  (I): SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2019 
08. Media Technicians 
 
i. Technicians, who are directly engaged in field coverage activities of an electronic media institution , are provided 
Media Technician Identity Cards.  
 
ii. Applicants must fulfill all the requirements listed under the topic ‘Basic Criteria and Documents Required’ above. 
 
 
09. Media Services 
 
i. Media Services Identity Cards are issued for those who are directly involved in field news  coverage  activities for 
collecting news and current events outside the institute. 
 
ii.  Applicants must fulfill all the requirements listed under the topic ‘Basic Criteria and Documents Required’ above. 
 
10.Website Journalists 
 
i. The issuance of media Identity Cards for websites are taken in to consideration upon the recommendat ions of 
special committee appointed by the Director General of Government Information, the competent authori ty of 
Media Accreditation.  
 
ii. Web Media Identity Cards will only be issued to the websites reporting news and current events and s pecial 
attention will be drawn in this regard.  
 
iii. Web Media Identity Cards are issued in line with new criteria prepared considering Website usage, ob jectives, 
ownership, number & hits, daily updates, etc.   
 
iv. The respective website should be registered with the Ministry of Mass Media and Information for the year 2020 
and a copy of the registration certificate certified by a staff officer in charge of the Ministry of  Mass Media 
should be submitted along with the journalist application. However, possession of a website registra tion 
certificate from the Ministry of Mass Media will not meet all the requirements for a media identity card. 
 
v. All news websites that apply for Media Identity Cards must have a Business Registration as a media 
company.  A copy of the Business Registration Certificate attested by a staff officer of the institution from 
where it has been issued, should also be submitted. 
 
vi. Media Identity Card applications submitted by a website will be referred for the recommendation of o ther 
relevant government institutions including Ministry of Defence. Media Accreditation process of a website is 
commenced on receipt of the recommendations. 
 
vii. Only the web sites that provide true, accurate and up -to-date news for the public in line with media ethics will 
be issued web Media Identity Cards. 
 
viii. Web sites that have been updated daily and continuously at least for the last six months, are consid ered for 
accreditation and it is compulsory that at least 35% of such websites contain news and current information.  
 
ix. A web site is provided with a maximum two web Media Identity Cards for each language.  
 
x. When several websites are registered by a same person or company, web media accreditations will be i ssued 
concerning one website only. 
 
xi. Only the journalists engaged in web journalism are provided with web Media Identity Cards and positions other 
than web journalist such as Website Administrator/Governor/Administrative Director etc. are not eligible to 
obtain Media Identity Cards by the Department of Government Information.  

<!-- page 6 -->

6 A I ෙකʣටස: (1) ෙŎදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.11.28 
PART  (I): SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2019 
xii. Web Media Identity Cards is Issued upon the recommendation of a Special Committee appointed by the 
Director General of Government Information. 
 
xiii A Web Media Identity Cards are allocated for direct news websites only. Publishing and Maintaining o f news 
pages on NGO or other institutional websites will not be considered as a news website and Web Media Identity 
Cards are not issued with respect to such websites . 
 
11.Foreign media 
 
•  Permanent 
 
i. Only the Staff Journalists who hold permanent positions in internationally recognized foreign media institutions 
and have been appointed as Representatives/Reporters in Sri Lanka are issued Foreign Media Accreditations. 
 
ii.  Media Identity Cards are issued only after the verification of information submitted by those foreig n media 
institutions. 
 
Documents Required 
 
i. A Letter certified by head of the respective foreign media institution. 
ii. A copy of valid passport / National Identity Card 
iii. Two colour photographs of the size of 1 ″x1.5″ taken within the last 06 months should be submitted with the 
application. One of these photographs should be affixed to the given space in the application.  
iv. In addition to the internationally renowned news agencies above, Media Accreditations will not be is sued for 
any other organizations or websites operating in Sri Lanka or overseas in the same name of aforement ioned or 
other institutions. 
 
• Temporary  
 
Temporary media accreditations are issued to foreign journalists who come to Sri Lanka to cover news and special events 
and to produce news documentaries for specific period.  
 
Required  Documents  
 
  i. Letter certified by the head of relevant foreign media institution. 
ii. Letter of approval issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
iii. Valid Passport 
iv. Two colour photographs of the size of 1″x1.5″ taken within 06 months should be submitted with the application. 
One of these photographs should be affixed to the relevant space in the application.  
 
General Conditions  
 
01. Application Deadline for the Media Accreditation 2020 is the 31 st of March 2020. Applications received after 
the deadline and incomplete applications will be rejected. 
 
02. Monthly publications will be issued a maximum of 3 Media Identity Cards and bi -monthly publications a 
maximum of two Identity Cards. 
 
03. The certificate of registration issued by the Department of National Archives and 6 recent copies sh ould be 
submitted to verify the continuation of the publication.  
 
04. Registration Certificate issued by the Press Council of Sri Lanka should be submitted concerning eac h 
publication. 
 
05. Supplements issued with a particular newspaper will not be considered as a separate newspaper and ap plicants 
of such supplements are issued Media Identity Cards in the name of respective major newspaper.   
 
06. It is the responsibility of a Head of the Institution to retrieve the media accreditation card of a journalist who is 
dismissed / resigned from a media institution and return the same to the Department of Government 
Information. No one will be accredited in lieu of such person. 

<!-- page 7 -->

7A I ෙකʣටස: (1) ෙŎදය - ɼ ලංකා ȝජාතාǦƵක සමාජවාǏ ජනරජෙɏ අƯ ɪෙශෂ ගැසŸ පƴය - 2019.11.28 
PART  (I): SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIS T REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.11.2019 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
07. Media Identity Cards will not be issued to artists in the field of Cinema / Television / Theater and Dramatic Art. 
 
08. No Media Identity Cards will be issued for advertising agencies and video production companies. 
 
09. In case of a missing Media Identity Card, a written request should be made to the Director General o f 
Government Information by the respective media institution for the reissuance of such Media Identity  Card. 
The original police report certified and issued by the respective police station following a complai nt made 
regarding the lost Media ID should be submitted with the requesting letter. 
 
10. Journalists those who submit news / features / programs under aliases will not be accredited by their aliases.  
 
11. No media Identity Card will be issued to a media institution unless it reports news and current Affairs. 
 
12. Media Identity Cards are not issued with respect to guide books published in different subject areas  or 
publications outside news and current information. 
 
13. These Media Identity Cards are issued for media purposes only . In case of a misuse or in violation of media 
ethics, the Director General of Government Information has the power of cancelation or withdrawal of the 
Media Identity Card.  
 
14. Only the Institutional / Staff Journalists are issued Media Identity Cards once a year. The requests  made by the 
relevant agencies from time to time will not be accepted. 
 
15. The issuance of Web Media Identity Cards is taken into consideration upon the verification of adequa cy of 
news, current news reports, features, photos or electronic media programs provided to the respective  media 
institution. 
 
16. Media Identity Cards will not be issued to the holders of positions such as the Managing Assistant /  
Development Officer / Coordinator that are not directly involved in media reporting. 
 
17. Titles of Honor and educational qualifications will not be mentioned in the Media Identity Card. It only 
mentions the name of the journalist. 
 
18. Media Identity cards are not issued for the official websites of Government Ministries, Departments and 
affiliated institutions. 
 
19. There should be at least five ‘news and topical programs 'broadcasts per week for a cable television  channel to 
be issue media accreditations. Only the news division of such TV stations that fulfill the said requ irement will 
be issued a maximum 6 media Identity Cards subject to 2 identity cards per each language.  Certified  copies of 
licenses issued to registered cable television channels by the  Telecommunication Regulatory Commission and 
Ministry of Mass Media should be submitted with the application.  
 
20. The final determination Authority concerning the issuance of Media Identity Cards and making appropr iate 
 alterations to the conditions and requirements above is possessed by the Director General of Governm ent 
 Information.  
 
21. The Director General of Government Information possesses the authority of investigation and cancella tion of 
Media Identity Card of a journalist, in the event of complaints submitted regarding the use of printed, electronic 
or web media accreditations for the purpose personal achievements. 
 
  NALAKA  KALUWEWE, 
  Director General of Government Information.  
12-429 