

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.2011
1 A – G 14471 — 342 (2011/04)
wxl 1703$41 - 2011 wfm%a,a 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'04'29
No. 1703/41  -  FRIDAY ,   APRIL  29,  2011
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
My No.  : CI/104/2002(sub).
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
THE Award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom  the
Industrial Dispute which has arisen between Jathika Sevaka
Sangamaya, No. 416, Kotte Road, Pitakotte/Sri Lanka Nidahas
Sewaka Sangamaya, No. 301, T. B. Jaya Mawatha, Colombo
10 of the one part and Lanka Ceramic Limited, No. 696, Galle
Road, Colombo 03 of the other part was referred by order
dated 17.08.2005 made under Section 4(1) of the Industrial
Disputes Act, Chapter 131, (as amended) and published in
the Gazette of  the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Extraordinary No. 1416/25 dated 27.10.2005 for settlement by
Arbitration is hereby published in terms of section 18(1) of
the said Act.
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner General
of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
01st April, 2011.
In the Matter of an Industrial Dispute Between :
1. Jathika Sevaka Sangamaya,
No. 416, Kotte Road,
Pitakotte.
2. Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka Sangamaya,
No. 301, T. B. Jaya Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
........................ of the one part
Case No. A/3123 and
Lanka Ceramic Limited,
No. 696, Galle Road,
Colombo 03.
....................... of the other part
THE  AWARD
The Honourable Minister of Labour Relations and Foreign
Employment by virtue of the powers vested in him by section
4(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act Chapter 131 of the
Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (1956 revised edition) as
amended by Act, Nos.14 of 1957, 4 of 1962 and 39 of 1968 read
with Industrial Disputes (Special Provisions) Act, No. 37 of
1968 appointed me as Arbitrator by his order dated 17th August
2005 and referred the following disputes to me for settlement
by arbitration.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.2011
The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties are:-
Whether the seven hundred and fifty three employees
whose names are given in the attach schedule who worked in
Piliyandala factory of Lanka Ceramic Limited are entitled to
receive the following payments and if not to what relief each
of them is entitled.
1. The salaries for the period of 05.06.2002 to 31.08.2002
during which the Piliyandala factory of Lanka Ceramic Limited
was closed.
2. Balance half of the salaries for the period of 01.09.2002 to
31.12.2002 as agreed to consider by the Lanka Ceramic Limited
to pay its employees at the time of their leaving company’s
service voluntarily on payment of compensation.
Appearance :
Mr. E. V . N. Cabral
For the party of the First Part
Mr. Prasad De Silva, Attorney-at-Law,
For the party of the Second Part
(Mr. Kanishka Weerasinghe, Attorney-at-Law,
also appeared at the beginning of inquiry)
The Party of the Second Part made preliminary objections
stating that the reference by the Minister was bad in law and
therefore the matter should not be taken for inquiry. The
objection was rejected.
Mr. Pathmasiri Ranawaka Arachchi, Assistant General
Manager (Human Resource) in his evidence stated as
follows :
He stated that on 19th January 1990, Lanka Ceramic
Corporation was privatized as Lanka Ceramic Limited.
The witness further stated that a section of the worker’s
opposed to the Company’s decision to shift Distribution Centre
from the Piliyandala to Boralesgamuwa. He further stated that
those workers violently protested against the shifting of
finished goods from the factory at Piliyandala to the
Distribution Centre at Boralesgamuwa.
The witness further said since he has not seen the incident
himself he is giving evidence as per the documents available
to him.
The witness further said on 04th June 2002, the management
of the Respondent Company interdicted 4 workers on
disciplinary grounds. The witness said on following day he
came to know that the General Manager (Sales) were assaulted
by some of the workers and other senior managers were forced
to confined to their office rooms by workers and kept them as
hostages.
The witness further said that even though the police was
present that time they could not control the situation.
The witness stated that at the time of incident he was not
present there as he was attached to the factory at
Boralesgamuwa.
The witness further said after the incident Piliyandala
factory was kept closed with effect from 05.06.2002.
The witness further said after having discussion with the
respective parties to re-open the factory section 12(1)
settlement was signed before Commissioner of Labour on
26.08.2002.
He further said after considering condition No. 8 of the
settlement arrived, the respondent company had come to a
decision that the 1/2 salary for the period 01.09.2002 to
31.12.2002 should not be paid to the workers.
The witness when cross examined by the party of the First
Part stated as follows :
(i) At the time of privatisation the respondent company
was running at a profit.
(ii) He said since he was not present at Piliyandala factory
when incident occurred on 04.06.2002, his evidence is
based on documents and by the information received
from Piliyandala factory.
(iii) The management decided to close the factory by
midnight on 05.06.2002 as the workers unrest prevailed.
(iv) The factory land at Piliyandala consisting 27 acres
were sold by the respondent company during the years
2003/2004.
(v) Subsequently Negombo and Hungama factories also
closed by the respondent company.
(vi) The management decided to close Piliyandala factory
as it way imposible to run the factory due to prevailing
conditions.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.2011
(vii) The workers behaved violently after taking
disciplinary action against some of them. The workers
even took senior managers as hostages. He
emphasised that in such a situation factory could not
be operated.
(viii) The staff officers who reported for duty was paid their
salaries.
(ix) The General Manager (sales) was assaulted by the
workers and was hospitalised. A complaint was made
to the police in respect of this incident.
(x) After selling the factory land, settling compensation
and paying gratuity there has been an excess of Rs. 10
million.
Mr. Rajiv Casie Chitty, Executive Director in his evidence
stated as follows :
(i) There were about 750 people were employed in the
factory at the time of the incident. In all the factories
there were about 2000 people working at that time.
(ii) He said he was a member of the management team at
that time and the decision to open a distribution point
at Boralesgamuwa was taken to improve sales.
(iii) He said there were violent protest against the loading
lorries to take stocks to Boralesgamuwa from
Piliyandala.
(iv) The reasons for setting up an additional distribution
point was duly informed to the Unions.
(v) The witness said, the Deputy Chairman of the
Respondent Company wrote to the General Secretary
of JSS stating that the membership was obstructing
the implementation of the management decision to
setting up a sales outlet at Piliyandala and as there
was no response the management decided to take
disciplinary action against the members of JSS who
were obstructing to the transfer of goods from
Piliyandala to Boralesgamuwa.
(vi) The witness said that he was informed by the General
Manager, Marketing that he was pulled up from his
vehicle and assaulted and he had managed to run up
to the stores and saved himself.
(vii) The witness further said that some of the senior
Managers were held as hostages to achieve a certain
motive.
(viii) Piliyandala police was informed and they were unable
to deal with the situation as their strength was not
sufficient. When deputy Chairman informed the
Minister of Defence and Ministry of Interior, ASP
Ranjan arrived with the riot squad. Since riot squad
could not deal with the situation the management
feared for the safety of employees and the suspension
order aginst 4 employees were withdrawn.
(ix) The witness said after the incident executives feared
for their lilfe and did not report to work. After lot of
discussion the factory was closed.
(x) The witness said since employees were acting in a
hostile manner the management was worried about
safety of the kilns as kilns had to be shut down
systematically over a period of time.
(xi) The witness said during the discussion held
afterwards at the Labour Department the management
did not agree to pay salaries for the period during
which the factory closed.
(xii) The witness said withdrawal of letters of suspension
of 4 workers was done under duress.
(xiii) The witness further stated the Commissioner of Labour
has instructed to make a half payment of salaries for
the 2 months during which the company was closed,
but the Board of Directors did not agree to that as the
closure of the factory was brought about by hostile
action and indiscipline of the work force.
(xiv) The witness further said after the strike closing down
of Negombo and Piliyandala factories the group had
suffered a loss of Rs. 521 million. In the circumstances,
it was not possible to make any payment which the
management undertook to consider paying to
employees.
In cross examinations the witness stated the GM Marking
identified certain people who assaulted. The witness further
stated that over 700 employees agreed to leave on VRS.
Witness further admitted that now the company is
improving financially and shareholders are being paid
dividends.
Witness further admitted that the closure of the factory
was of 2 reasons firstly, the security of the executives and
secondly the situation of the kilns.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.2011
Air Vice Marshall (retd) Deputy Chairman P. M. Fernando
in his evidence stated as follows :
(i) He said he wrote to JSS (the letter marked R4) explaining
the purpose of establishing another Distribution
network at Boralesgamuwa. The letters of suspension
issued to those who found guilty of preventing this
movement.
(ii) He further said the decision to close down the factory
was not a decision taken arbitrarily but on facts and
figures that took place giving priority to the safety of
personnel. He said kilns cannot be closed suddenly
as sudden difference in temperature that will arise due
to such closure is bad for the kilns.
(iii) He further said Committee of Experts were appointed
to ascertain the damage to 3 kilns and other equipment.
The witness further said the repairs would require
about 8 to 9 weeks and would require about 40 workers
to assist.
(iv) The witness further said police did not take any action
against the workers and no arrest was made with regard
to the incident took place on 05.06.2002.
When cross examined by the party of the First Part the
witness said police advised the management to withdraw
suspension of the workers and the management did so under
duress. He further said that t he agreement also signed under
duress.
Cross examination on 10.09.2009.
Q. R 13 is the agreement signed after discussion between
the General Secretary of the J.S.S. and General Manager
(Operations) of your company.
A. Yes
Q. In terms of this Agreement, the company has agreed
to withdraw the suspension letters served on the 4
workers.
A. Yes, this is a decision taken after discussions my
Manager had with the police. The police said, please
withdraw we are going. Our managers were locked up
and it came to the point I do allow that or I withdraw in
duress.
Q. Your position is that although this Agreement does
not embody any statement relating to duress, this was
in fact signed under duress ?
A. I agree.
He further said the decision to not to pay 1/2 months salary
was taken by himself as the Deputy Chairman and by Mr.
Casie Chitty the executive Director for the following reasons.
a. Due to losses  incurred and loans Company have to
pay.
b. All the staff wanted to leave on VRS and therefore
there was no case of making any profits.
The witness further said the most of the workers are the
share holders and they are paid dividends when the company
run at a profit.
Miss Ena Thanapathi giving evidence for the party of the
First Part stated as follows :
(i) She said she was the Secretary of the Sri Lanka Nidahas
Sevaka Sangamaya of the Respondent Company.
(ii) The witness further said the goods which were stored
at Piliyandala was transferred to Kithulwatte by the
management for the benefit and easy access of the
traders. She further said JSS fiercely opposed to this
decision.
(iii) The witness said when she reported for work in the
morning there was a notice on the gate saying that the
factory was closed after 12 midnight of 05.06.2002.
She further said some of the kiln operators were
allowed to come in order to bring down the temperature
of the kilns.
When cross examined by the respondent’s lawyer, the
witness further said a period of about two weeks is needed to
cool down the kiln.
The witness further said Sri Lanka Nidahas Sevaka
Sangamaya did not participate in the protest.
The witness further said that she was not aware of the
presence of the Riot Squad during the time protest.
The witness further said that she was not aware of hostage
taking by the workers.
P. J. Harrison, Kiln operator in his evidence stated as
follows :
The witness said when he reported for work on 06.06.2002
he was not allowed to go in as the factory was closed.
The witness further said when he met Dayaratne, a fellow
Kiln Operator after a few days Dayaratne told the witness that
he shut down the kiln as he left.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'29
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.04.2011
During the cross examination, the witness further said,
To start operation, the temperature of a kiln should be
brought 1080 C0. This was done by burning large amount of
furnace fuel. When a kiln is shutting down no production
could be done. He further said it takes 5 to 6 days to bring
about to required temperature of the kiln and to shut down
takes about 4 days.
Both parties have filed written submissions.
On overall analysis of evidence I have come to following
conclusions,
(i) The management decision to relocate the distribution
centre to Boralesgamuwa is purely an administrative
act.
(ii) There is no reason to justify workers objecting to the
management decision to shift the distribution centre
to Boralesgamuwa.
(iii) There had been violence and intimidation by a section
of wokers against the management at the time of the
protest.
(iv) The management was forced to withdraw letters of
suspension of 4 workers under duress.
(v) The Respondent Company suffered a considerable
loss due to closure of the factory.
(vi) The party of the First Part failed to prove that there
had been no violence or intimidation against the
management at the time of protest.
(vii) Any relief granted under threat or intimidation will be
a bad precedent.
Any form of violence against the employer or employee
cannot be acceptable at any cost. The Ceramic Corporation
was privatised by the Government which was in power at that
time. The Government consisted the elected representative of
the people. The objective of the Company who took over the
business is to run it with a profit while providing the
employment. If the Enterpreuner is threatened or intimidated
he will not risk investing the capital in ventures that will provide
employment. In such a scenario the Enterpreuner will look for
safe heaven for it’s capital such as investing in banks or other
financial institutions without risking investing in employment
generating projects.
In the case of Nakiyakanda Group Vs. Lanka Estate
Worker’s Union (1969) 77 CLW 52 De Kretzer J stated that in
making a just and equitable order, it is important that not only
the interests of the employee but also the interests of the
employer and the interest of the country should be considered
as the object of social legislation is to be not only a contented
employee but a contended employer too.
In Health and Co (Ceylon) Ltd Vs. Kariyawasam
The Supreme Court held “the use of obscene language
when addressing the employers representatives coupled with
threats of violence should not be condoned in the name of
industrial peace. Such a course can lead to industrial chaos.
For the reasons aforesaid it is my finding that the violent
behavior or some of the workers are responsible for the closure
of the factory.
In the circumstances taking into consideration the totality
of evidence led before me I make award that the Party of the
First Part, be awarded no relief.
I further make order that this award should be implemented
within 21 days of the publication in the Government Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
I consider this award just and equitable.
K
APILA M. SARA THCHANDRA,
Arbitrator.
01st March 2001.
05-340
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.