

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2371$09 - 2024 fmnrjdß ui 12 jeks i÷od - 2024.02.12
No. 2371/09  -  moNday,   february  12 , 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G 41416 - 16 (02/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PILGRImAGES   ORDINANCE  
reGulatioNs  made by the Minister of Public Administration, Home Affairs, Provincial Councils and Local Government 
in terms of section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance (Chapter 175).
 Dinesh Gunawardhana (m. P.),
 minister of Public administration,
 Home Affairs, Provincial Councils
 and local Government.
ministry of Public administration,
Home Affairs, Provincial Councils
 and local Government,
Home Affairs Division,
Nila medura,
elvitigala mawatha,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05,
12th february, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.02.2024
2a
Regulations
 1. These Regulation may be cited as the regulation of Athuladassana Buddhist Center Dasaparamitha Perehara of 
Thimbirigasyaya Grama Niladhari Division, Thimbirigasyaya Divisional Secretariat in Colombo District.
 2. in these regulations
“Camp area” means the area described in the schedule.
“District Secretary/ Government Agent” means the Government Agent of Colombo Administrative District and it also 
includes any officer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4.
“Medical Officer” means the Health Medical Officer in charge of the camp area.
“Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose. 
“Police Officer” includes any Grama Niladhari in Charge of the camp area.
“Public Health Inspector” means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
 3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of the Athuladassana Buddhist Center Dasaparamitha 
Perehara of Thimbirigasyaya Grama Niladhari Division, Thimbirigasyaya Divisional Secretariat in Colombo District.
 4. The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any public officer in writing to exercise 
any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
 5. I.  The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traffic or walking to or 
from or within the camp area.
  II.  No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any police officer in compliance with the instructions issued 
to such police officer by the District Secretary/Government Agent for the exercise of powers vested in him under 
the Para (1) of this regulation.
 6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the
 district 
Secretary/ Government Agent. However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are brought and 
cattle are driven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7
 7. (1)  The District Secretary/Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places
 inside 
the camp area.
 (a) Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
 (b) Places for leaving carts and cattle
 (c) Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims.
 (d) Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick
 (e) Places for begging and solicitation for charity.
 (f) Places for displaying certain items for sale
 (g) Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes
 (h) Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing
 (i) Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places providing 
such facilities.
 (j) Places for other purposes the District Secretary/ Government Agent may deem necessary.
 
 
  (2) If the District Secretary/ Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any place is reserved or provided 
for certain purpose under para (I) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or name board stating the
 
purpose for which the place is reserved.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.02.2024
3a
  (3) (I) In case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (I), that place shall strictly be  
used for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.
 8.   If the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine to any 
tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in the camp areas or it is required to be closed for prevention of diseases, 
the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Officer shall have the power to do so.
 9. (I)  No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or make a
 
new addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp area, 
reserved or provided for certain purpose under regulation 7, except on a permit issued by the district Secretary/ 
Government agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the conditions stipulated in such permit.
  (2) If any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make a new 
addition to existing building or construction contrary to the para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery 
of a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the district Secretary/ Government agent to order to remove 
or demolish such hut or building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may
 
be.
  (3) Where any person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act in  
compliance with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where a doubt 
arises as to who is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the district Secretary/
 
Government agent to cause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, construction or a  
new addition made to the existing building or construction as the case may be. it is also lawful for the district  
Secretary/ Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to any land or premises together with labourers, 
equipment.
 10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for the 
use of pilgrims.
 11. No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp
 area.
 12.   No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by the 
district Secretary/ Government agent for this  purpose.
 13. (1)  district  Secretary / Government agent  shall  have the power to stream  line the distribution of cooked meals    
   and beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.
  (2)  No one shall disobey any lawful order to be carried out by Police Officer or a public Health Inspector in 
accordance with instructions given by district Secretary/ Government Agent in the exercise of powers delegated 
to him under para (1) of this regulation.
 14. (1)  Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the camp
 area is 
found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the district Secretary/ Government Agent  or the 
Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not suitable for human 
consumption.
  (2)  No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for human
 
consumption under para (1) of this regulation.
 
 
  (3)  It shall be lawful for any Police Officer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribution and destroy 
any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (I) of the regulation.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.02.2024
4a
 15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or dansal in any place 
in the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are  maintained 
on a license issuid  by  the  district Secretary/ Government  agent and in accordance with  conditions           stipulated there 
in, Every license shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of the Medical Officer or any officer authorized 
by such Medical Officer.
 16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal and all furniture and 
equipment in such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
 17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sale or distribution in the camp area shall be kept
 in show 
case properly made preventing the flies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical Officer or the Public Health 
Inspector.
 18. No tea, coffee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall 
be left at any place within the camp area. all such dregs or wastes shall be dumped in to the container
 placed as 
provided in regulation 19. However wastes , milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any place within 
the camp area or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case
 of bakery, sweet stall, 
place where sweets are made or eating house or 'Dansal' the license holder of such place  shall be deemed to have 
violated provisions in this regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license  holder proves that all necessary 
precautions have been taken and action has been taken with proper care to prevent the commission of such offence.
 19. All bakeries, sweets stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or constructions 
used for commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden , metal or plastic garbage container
 with 
a capacity of 1 1/2 cubic meters (4 1/2 cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden, metal or plastic lid 
unless it is used to dump or remove garbage.
 2 0 . ( 1 )   I f  t h e  d i s t r i c t  S e c r e t a r y / G o v e r n m e n t  a g e n t  i s  o f  t h e  v i e w  t h a t  a n y  b a k e r y ,  s w e e t  s t a l l ,  p l a c e  w h e r e  s w e e t s                                                                                                                                                   
are made, eating house, Danasal or business place has been established or maintained in violation of regulations
 
16, 17, 18 or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery, sweet stall, place where 
sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the camp area or cancel any license
 
with immediate effect if any license has been issued for such place.
  (2)  any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made or eating house or 
dansal or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the district Secretary/ 
Government agent under chapter (1) of this section.
 21. No person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall enter the camp area.
 22. (1)  It shall be lawful for the district Secretary/Government agent to order the pilgrims to leave the camp area  and 
for the district Secretary/Government agent to determine the route of leaving and mode of transport to be  used 
for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area.
  (2)  No person shall act against any legal order given by the district Secretary/Government agent under Para (1) of 
this section.
 23. Every person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area and when a
 person 
is knowingly living together with a person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious disease, every such 
person shall report it to the Medical Officer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Officer
 immediately.
 
 24. Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant or Dansal within the camp area 
shall not allow any person whom he knows is suffering from infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter such 
bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale  or manufacture 
of any material or food or drink.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'02'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.02.2024
5A
 25. A  license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating house or dansal or an owner or chief 
occupant of any lodge or pilgrims' rest shall not allow any person suffering from any infectious disease or contagious 
disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, eating  house, dansal lodge 
or pilgrims' rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suffering from any  infectious disease or 
contagious disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant shall report it to the Medical 
Officer or the Public Health Officer or any Police Officer immediately.
 26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any other means within the camp area 
except in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
 27.   No person shall light fire works or use any fire arms within the camp are without written permission from the district  
secretary/Government agent.
 28.  No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any place under regulatlion  7 or 10.
 29. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/Government Agent, Medical Officer, Public Health Inspector or any Police 
Officer.
 (a) Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from among these 
regulations and,
 (b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or a 
name board under regulation 7.
 30. it shall be lawful for the district secretary/Government agent to cancel the following at any time if he considers that the 
cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefit in the public interest.
 (a) any permission given under regulation 6 or regulation 27.
 (b) Permit issued under regulation 9.
 (c) any license issued under regulation 15.
SCHEDuLE
   The Athuladassana Buddhist Center is situated in the plot of land in Thimbirigasyaya Grama Niladari Division, 
Thimbirigasyaya Divisional Secretariat in Colombo District  The boundaries of the land are follows   :
North : Dhamma Gavesi Meditation Center ; 
South : Side road next to the building ;
East : Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Side road ;
West : Seruwila Buddhist Center, Punya Bhoomi Viharaya.
eoG  02  -  0089
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.