

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
83
83
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 04th April, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
21st  March, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
     This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 84
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"854- 2014 ud¾;= 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'03'14
No. 1,854 – FRIDAY , MARCH 14,  2014

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
84
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/37811.
Deputy Land  Commissioner's  No.: NP/28/04/2/SLO/41.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the  Purpose of Fishermen
Co- Operative Society has   requested on lease a  State land containing
in extent about  40 P.  out of  extent marked lot  No. 01 as depicted
in the  Tracing No. TN/LA/04 situated  in the village of Kachchai
with belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of   Kachchai  coming
within  the area of authority  of  Chavakachcheri   Divisional
Secretariat in the District of  Jaffna.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Private land  (Krishnadasan) ;
On the East by : Road ;
On the  South by : The  Sea ;
On the West by : Private Land (Krishnadasan).
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( from 30.08.2013
to 29.08.2043)  ;
The Annual rent of the Lease. – 4% of the   commercial
value  of the  land as per  Valuation of the  Chief Valuer  in
the  year 2013. This amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the amount as
a result of the revision will be  not less than  50% of the
amount that just preceded.
Premium - Three times of the  annual rent  of the lease  ;
(b) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose  other
than for the purpose of  Commercial  activities ;
(d) This lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary/Scoping Committee/Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka and by other  institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in  a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub -leasing can be done  until the expiry of a minimum
period of  05 years;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
N
UW ANI SUDUSINGHA ,
Assistant  Land Commissioner (Land),
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura", Land Secretariat,
1200/6,  Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
07th March, 2014.
03-236
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/36317(1).
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: m<d;a$bfld$b
3$wUka$oSn$2 ^04&.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose, Mahawa
Multi Purpose Service Coperative Society   has   requested on lease
a  State land containing in extent about  0.4268 Ha. out of  extent
marked  part of the  lot Number 190 as  depicted in the  Tracing
bearing No.  w' .' ms' 3176   situated  in the village of  Konkadawala
with belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of 185, Amunugama
coming within  the area of authority  Abanpola of  Divisional
Secretariat in the District of   Kurunegala ;

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'14
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.03.2014
85
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Lot Number  158 ;
On the East by : Lot Number  158 ;
On the  South by : Lot Number  191 ;
On the West by : Lot Number  09 (Road).
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( Since 24.01.2014);
The Annual rent of the Lease. – 2% of the   commercial
value  of the  land as per  Valuation of the  Chief Valuer  for
the  year 2014.
(b) This  lessees must, within one year of the commencement
of the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purposes  other
than for the purpose of  Commercial  purpose  ;
(d) This lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary and by other  institutions;
(e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(f) No sub -leasing can be done  until the expiry of a minimum
period of  05 years;
(g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(h) The buildings constructed must be maintained in  a proper
state of repair.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
RASADEE UBAYASIRI ,
Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura", Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
18th February, 2014.
03-237
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.