

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1851$21 - 2014 fmnrjdß  ui 26 jeks nodod - 2014'02'26
No. 1851/21 -  WEDNESDAY  FEBRUARY  26,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”),
the Institute has adopted the changes to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS & LKAS) with effect from 01st January,
2013,  published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. These
changes shall be effective for financial statements covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two
Thousand Thirteen.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
Secretary.
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07,
26th February, 2014.
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards Changes with effect from 01st January, 2013
CONTENTS
[1] SLFRS 1-First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
[2] SLFRS 3-Business Combinations
[3] SLFRS 4-Insurance Contracts
[4] SLFRS 5-Non-Current Assets Held for Sale & Discontinued Operations
[5] SLFRS 7-Financial Instruments: Disclosures
[6] LKAS 1-Presentation of Financial Statements
[7] LKAS 2-Inventories
[8] LKAS 8-Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates & Errors
[9] LKAS 12-Income Taxes
N. B. :- Sinhala and Tamil Versions of this Gazette will be published separately.
1A - PG 1985 (02/2014)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
2A
[10] LKAS 18-Revenue
[11] LKAS 19-Employee Benefits
[12] LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance
[13] LKAS 21-The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
[14] LKAS 27-Consolidated & Separate Financial Statements
[15] LKAS 28-Investments in Associates
[16] LKAS 31-Interests in Joint Ventures
[17] LKAS 32-Financial Instruments: Presentation
[18] LKAS 36-Impairment of Assets
[19] LKAS 37-Provisions, Contingent Liabilities & Contingent Assets
[20] LKAS 39-Financial Instruments: Recognition & Measurement

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
3A
SLFRS 1-First time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards
Standard E xisting Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 1 Para 29 An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial
asset or financial liability as a financial asset or financial liability at fair
value through profit or loss or a financial asset as available for sale in
accordance with paragraph D19. The entity shall disclose the fair value of
financial assets or financial liabilities designated into each category at
the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount in
the previous financial statements.
Para 29A [Deleted]
SLFRS 3-Business Combinations
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 3 Para 16 (a) classification of particular financial assets and liabilities as a financial
asset or liability at fair value through profit or loss, or as a financial asset
available for sale or held to maturity , in accordance with LKAS 39
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement ;
Para 16 (c) assessment of whether an embedded derivative should be separated from
the host contract in accordance with LKAS 39 (which is a matter of
‘classification’ as this SLFRS uses that term).
Para 42 In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall remeasure
its previously held equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date
fair value and recognise the resulting gain or loss, if any, in profit or loss.
In prior reporting periods, the acquirer may have recognised changes in
the value of its equity interest in the acquiree in other comprehensive
income (for example, because the investment was classified as available
for sale). If so, the amount that was recognised in other comprehensive
income shall be recognised on the same basis as would be required if the
acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity interest.
Para 53 Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a business
combination. Those costs include finder’s fees; advisory, legal, accounting,
valuation and other professional or consulting fees; general administrative
costs, including the costs of maintaining an internal acquisitions
department; and costs of registering and issuing debt and equity securities.
The acquirer shall account for acquisition-related costs as expenses in
the periods in which the costs are incurred and the services are received,
with one exception. The costs to issue debt or equity securities shall be
recognised in accordance with LKAS 32 and 
LKAS 39.
Para 56 This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in accordance
with LKAS 39.
Para 58 (b) (i) is a financial instrument and is within the scope of LKAS 39 shall be
measured at fair value, with any resulting gain or loss recognized either in
profit or loss or in other comprehensive income in accordance with 
that
SLFRS.
Para 58 (b) (ii) is not within the scope of LKAS 39 shall be accounted for in accordance
with LKAS 37 or other SLFRSs as appropriate.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
4A
SLFRS 4-Insurance Contracts
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 4 Para 3 This SLFRS does not address other aspects of accounting by insurers,
such as accounting for financial assets held by insurers and financial
liabilities issued by insurers (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation , LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement and SLFRS 7), except in the transitional provisions in
paragraph 45.
Para 4 (d) financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously asserted
explicitly that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has
used accounting applicable to insurance contracts, in which case the
issuer may elect to apply either 
LKAS 39, LKAS 32 and SLFRS 7 or this
SLFRS to such financial guarantee contracts. The issuer may make that
election contract by contract, but the election for each contract is
irrevocable.
Para 7
LKAS 39 requires an entity to separate some embedded derivatives from
their host contract, measure them at fair value and include changes in
their fair value in profit or loss. LKAS 39 applies to derivatives embedded
in an insurance contract unless the embedded derivative is itself an
insurance contract.
Para 8 As an exception to the 
requirement in LKAS 39, an insurer need not
separate, and measure at fair value, a policyholder’s option to surrender
an insurance contract for a fixed amount (or for an amount based on a
fixed amount and an interest rate), even if the exercise price differs from
the carrying amount of the host insurance liability . However, the
requirement in LKAS 39 does apply to a put option or cash surrender
option embedded in an insurance contract if the surrender value varies in
response to the change in a financial variable (such as an equity or
commodity price or index), or a non-financial variable that is not specific
to a party to the contract. Furthermore, that 
requirement also applies if
the holder’s ability to exercise a put option or cash surrender option is
triggered by a change in such a variable (for example, a put option that
can be exercised if a stock market index reaches a specified level).
Para 12 (b) apply 
LKAS 39 to the deposit component
Para 34 (d) shall, if the contract contains an embedded derivative within the scope of
LKAS 39, apply LKAS 39 to that embedded derivative.
Para 35 (a) if the issuer classifies the entire discretionary participation feature as a
liability, it shall apply the liability adequacy test in paragraphs 15–19 to
the whole contract (ie both the guaranteed element and the discretionary
participation feature). The issuer need not determine the amount that
would result from applying 
LKAS 39 to the guaranteed element.
Para 35 (b) if the issuer classifies part or all of that feature as a separate component
of equity, the liability recognised for the whole contract shall not be less
than the amount that would result from applying 
LKAS 39 to the
guaranteed element. That amount shall include the intrinsic value of an
option to surrender the contract, but need not include its time value if
paragraph 9 exempts that option from measurement at fair value. The
issuer need not disclose the amount that would result from applying
LKAS 39 to the guaranteed element, nor need it present that amount
separately. Furthermore, the issuer need not determine that amount if the
total liability recognised is clearly higher.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
5A
SLFRS 5-Non-Current Assets Held for Sale & Discontinued Operations
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS  5 Para 5 (c) financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement .
SLFRS 7-Financial Instruments: Disclosures
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
SLFRS 7 Para 2 The principles in this SLFRS complement the principles for recognising,
measuring and presenting financial assets and financial liabilities in LKAS
32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and 
LKAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement .
Para 3 (a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are
accounted for in accordance with LKAS 27 Consolidated and Separate
Financial Statements, LKAS 28 Investments in Associates or LKAS 31
Interests in Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, LKAS 27, LKAS 28
or LKAS 31 permits an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,
associate or joint venture using 
LKAS 39; in those cases, entities shall
apply the requirements of this SLFRS. Entities shall also apply this SLFRS
to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint
ventures unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity instrument
in LKAS 32.
Para 3 (d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. However,
this SLFRS applies to derivatives that are embedded in insurance contracts
if 
LKAS 39 requires the entity to account for them separately. Moreover,
an issuer shall apply this SLFRS to financial guarantee contracts if the
issuer applies LKAS 39 in recognising and measuring the contracts, but
shall apply SLFRS 4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph
4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4 in recognising and measuring them.
Para 3 (e) financial instruments, contr acts and obligations under share-based
payment transactions to which SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies,
except that this SLFRS applies to contracts within the scope of 
 paragraphs
5–7 of LKAS 39.
Para 4 This SLFRS applies to recognised and unrecognised financial instruments.
Recognised financial instruments include financial assets and financial
liabilities that are within the scope of 
LKAS 39. Unrecognised financial
instruments include some financial instruments that, although outside
the scope of 
LKAS 39, are within the scope of this SLFRS (such as some
loan commitments).
Para 5 This SLFRS applies to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial item that
are within the scope of LKAS 39 (see paragraphs 5–7 of LKAS 39).
Para 8 The carrying amounts of each of the following categories, as defined in
LKAS 39, shall be disclosed either in the statement of financial position
or in the notes:
Para 8 (a) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i)
those designated as such upon initial recognition and (ii) those classified
as held for trading in accordance with LKAS 39
Para 8 (b) held-to-maturity investments
Para 8 (c) loans and receivables
Para 8 (d) available-for-sale financial assets

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
6A
Para 8 (e) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately
(i) those designated as such upon initial recognition and (ii) those
classified as held for trading in accordance with LKAS 39; and
Para 8 (g) [Deleted]
Para 8 (h) [Deleted]
Para 9 If the entity has designated a loan or receivable (or group of loans or
receivables) as at fair value through profit or loss , it shall disclose:
Para 9 (a) the maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(a)) of the loan or
receivable (or group of loans or receivables) at the end of the reporting
period.
Para 9 (c) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair
value of the loan or receivable (or group of loans or receivables) that is
attributable to changes in the credit risk of the financial asset determined
either:
Para 9 (d) the amount of the change in the fair value of any related credit derivatives
or similar instruments that has occurred during the period and cumulatively
since the l
oan or receivable was designated.
Para 10 If the entity has designated a financial liability as at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 9 of LKAS 39, it shall disclose:
(a)  the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in the fair
value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the
credit risk of that liability 
determined either:
(i) as the amount of change in its fair value that is not attributable
to changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk (see
Appendix B, paragraph B4); or
(ii) using an alternative method the entity believes more faithfully
represents the amount of change in its fair value that is
attributable to changes in the credit risk of the liability.
Changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk include
changes in a benchmark interest rate, the price of another entity’s
financial instrument, a commodity price, a foreign exchange rate
or an index of prices or rates. For contracts that include a unit-
linking feature, changes in market conditions include changes
in the performance of the related internal or external investment
fund.
(b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amount and
the amount the entity would be contractually required to pay at
maturity to the holder of the obligation.
Para 10 (c) (d) [Deleted]
Para 10A [Deleted]
Para 11 The entity shall 
disclose:
Para 11 (a) the methods used to comply with the requirements in paragraphs 9(c) and
10(a).
Para 11(b) if the entity believes that the disclosure it has given to comply with the
requirements in paragraph 9(c) or 10(a) does not faithfully represent the
change in the fair value of the financial asset or financial liability attributable
to changes in its credit risk, the reasons for reaching this conclusion and
the factors it believes are relevant
Para 11(c) [Deleted]
Reclassification

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
7A
Para 11A [Deleted]
Para 11B [Deleted]
Para 12 If the entity has reclassified a financial asset (in accordance with
paragraphs 51–54 of LKAS 39) as one measured:
(a) at cost or amortised cost, rather than at fair value; or
(b) at fair value, rather than at cost or amortised cost,
it shall disclose the amount reclassified into and out of each category and
the reason for that reclassification.
Para 12A If the entity has reclassified a financial asset out of the fair value through
profit or loss category in accordance with paragraph 50B or 50D of LKAS
39 or out of the available-for-sale category in accordance with paragraph
50E of LKAS 39, it shall disclose:
(a) the amount reclassified into and out of each category;
(b) for each reporting period until derecognition, the carrying amounts
and fair values of all financial assets that have been reclassified in
the current and previous reporting periods;
(c) if a financial asset was reclassified in accordance with paragraph
50B, the rare situation, and the facts and circumstances indicating
that the situation was rare;
(d) for the reporting period when the financial asset was reclassified, the
fair value gain or loss on the financial asset recognised in profit or
loss or other comprehensive income in that reporting period and in
the previous reporting period;
(e) for each reporting period following the reclassification (including
the reporting period in which the financial asset was reclassified)
until derecognition of the financial asset, the fair value gain or loss
that would have been recognised in profit or loss or other
comprehensive income if the financial asset had not been reclassified,
and the gain, loss, income and expense recognised in profit or loss;
and
(f) the effective interest rate and estimated amounts of cash flows the
entity expects to recover , as at the date of reclassification of the
financial asset.
Para 12B [Deleted]
Para 12C [Deleted]
Para 12D [Deleted]
Para 14 (a) the carrying amount of financial assets it has pledged as collateral for
liabilities or contingent liabilities, including amounts that have been
reclassified in accordance with paragraph 
37(a) of LKAS 39; and
Para 20 (a) (i) financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss,
showing separately those on financial assets or financial liabilities
designated as such upon initial recognition, and those on financial assets
or financial liabilities that are 
classified as held for trading in accordance
with LKAS 39;
Para 20 (a) (ii) available-for-sale financial assets, showing separately the amount of gain
or loss recognised in other comprehensive income during the period and
the amount reclassified from equity to profit or loss for the period;

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
8A
Para 20 (a) (iii) held-to-maturity investments;
Para 20 (a) (iv) loans and receivables; and
Para 20 (a) (vi) [Deleted]
Para 20 (a) (vii) [Deleted]
Para 20 (b) total interest income and total interest expense (calculated using the
effective interest method) for financial assets  or financial liabilities that
are not at fair value through profit or loss;
Para 20 (c) (i) financial assets or financial liabilities that are not at fair value through
profit or loss; and
Para 20 (d) interest income on impaired financial assets accrued in accordance with
paragraph AG93 of LKAS 39; and
Para 20A [Deleted]
Para 28 If the market for a financial instrument is not active, an entity establishes
its fair value using a valuation technique (see paragraphs AG74–AG79 of
LKAS 39). Nevertheless, the best evidence of fair value at initial recognition
is the transaction price (ie the fair value of the consideration given or
received), unless 
conditions described in paragraph AG76 of LKAS 39
are met. It follows that there could be a difference between the fair value
at initial recognition and the amount that would be determined at that
date using the valuation technique. If such a difference exists, an entity
shall disclose, by class of financial instrument:
Para 28 (a) its accounting policy for recognising that difference in profit or loss to
reflect a change in factors (including time) that market participants would
consider in setting a price (see paragraph 
AG76A of LKAS 39); and
Para 29 (b) for an investment in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market
price in an active market, or derivatives linked to such equity instruments,
that is measured at cost in accordance with LKAS 39 because its fair
value cannot be measured reliably; or
Para 30 In the cases described in paragraph 29(b) and (c), an entity shall disclose
information to help users of the financial statements make their own
judgements about the extent of possible differences between the carrying
amount of those 
financial assets or financial liabilities and their fair value,
including:
Para 42C (c) an arrangement whereby an entity retains the contractual rights to receive
the cash flows of a financial asset but assumes a contractual obligation
to pay the cash flows to one or more entities and the conditions in
paragraph 
19(a)–(c) of LKAS 39 are met.
Para 42D (f) when the entity continues to recognise the assets to the extent of its
continuing involvement (see paragraphs 20(c)(ii) and 30 of LKAS 39), the
total carrying amount of the original assets before the transfer, the carrying
amount of the assets that the entity continues to recognise, and the
carrying amount of the associated liabilities.
Para 42E To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(b), when an entity
derecognizes transferred financial assets in their entirety (see paragraph
20(a) and (c)(i) of LKAS 39) but has continuing involvement in them, the
entity shall disclose, as a minimum, for each type of continuing
involvement at each reporting date:

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
9A
LKAS 1-Presentation of Financial Statements
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 1 Para 7 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings
specified:
General purpose financial statements  (referred to as ‘financial
statements’) are those intended to meet the needs of users who are not in
a position to require an entity to prepare reports tailored to their particular
information needs.
Impracticable Applying a requirement is impracticable when the entity
cannot apply it after making every reasonable effort to do so.
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs)  are Standards and
Interpretations adopted by the Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka). They comprise:
(a) Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs);
(b) Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKASs);
(c) Statement of Recommended Practices (SoRPs);
(d)  Statement of Alternative Treatments (SoATs);
(e) Interpretations adopted by the Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka (IFRIC & SIC);
(f) Financial Reporting guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka.
Material Omissions or misstatements of items are material if they
could, individually or collectively, influence the economic decisions that
users make on the basis of the financial statements. Materiality depends
on the size and nature of the omission or misstatement judged in the
surrounding circumstances. The size or nature of the item, or a
combination of both, could be the determining factor.
Assessing whether an omission or misstatement could influence economic
decisions of users, and so be material, requires consideration of the
characteristics of those users. The Framework for the Preparation and
Presentation of Financial Statement s states in paragraph 25 that ‘users
are assumed to have a reasonable knowledge of business and economic
activities and accounting and a willingness to study the information with
reasonable diligence.’ Therefore, the assessment needs to take into account
how users with such attributes could reasonably be expected to be
influenced in making economic decisions.
Notes:- Contain information in addition to that presented in the statement
of financial position, statement of comprehensive income, separate income

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
10A
statement (if presented), statement of changes in equity and statement of
cash flows. Notes provide narrative descriptions or disaggregations of
items presented in those statements and information about items that do
not qualify for recognition in those statements.
Other comprehensive income comprises items of income and expense
(including reclassification adjustments) that are not recognised in profit
or loss as required or permitted by other SLFRSs.
The components of other comprehensive income include:
(a) changes in revaluation surplus (see LKAS 16 Property, Plant and
Equipment and LKAS 38 Intangible Assets);
(b) actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit plans recognised in
accordance with paragraph 93A of LKAS 19 Employee Benefits;
(c) gains and losses arising from translating the financial statements of
a foreign operation (see LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates );
(d) gains and losses on remeasuring available-for-sale financial assets
(see LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement) ;
(e) the effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments in
a cash flow hedge (see LKAS 39).
Owners are holders of instruments classified as equity.
Profit or loss  is the total of income less expenses, excluding the
components of other comprehensive income.
Reclassification adjustments are amounts reclassified to profit or loss
in the current period that were recognised in other comprehensive
income in the current or previous periods.
Total comprehensive income is the change in equity during a period
resulting from transactions and other events, other than those changes
resulting from transactions with owners in their capacity as owners.
Total comprehensive income comprises all components of ‘profit or loss’
and of ‘other comprehensive income’.
Para 68 The operating cycle of an entity is the time between the acquisition of
assets for processing and their realisation in cash or cash equivalents.
When the entity’s normal operating cycle is not clearly identifiable, it is
assumed to be twelve months. Current assets include assets (such as
inventories and trade receivables) that are sold, consumed or realised as
part of the normal operating cycle even when they are not expected to be
realised within twelve months after the reporting period. Current assets
also include assets held primarily for the purpose of trading (examples
include some financial assets 
classified as held for trading in accordance
with LKAS 39) and the current portion of non-current financial assets.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
11A
Para 71 Other current liabilities are not settled as part of the normal operating
cycle, but are due for settlement within twelve months after the reporting
period or held primarily for the purpose of trading. Examples are some
financial liabilities 
classified as held for trading in accordance with LKAS
39, bank overdrafts, and the current portion of non-current financial
liabilities, dividends payable, income taxes and other non-trade payables.
Financial liabilities that provide financing on a long-term basis (ie are not
part of the working capital used in the entity’s normal operating cycle)
and are not due for settlement within twelve months after the reporting
period are non-current liabilities, subject to paragraphs 74 and 75.
Para 82 (aa) Deleted
Para 82 (ca) Deleted
Para 93 Other SLFRSs specify whether and when amounts previously recognised
in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. Such
reclassifications are referred to in this Standard as reclassification
adjustments. A reclassification adjustment is included with the related
component of other comprehensive income in the period that the
adjustment is reclassified to profit or loss. 
For example, gains realised on
the disposal of available-for-sale financial assets are included in profit or
loss of the current period.
Para 95 Reclassification adjustments arise, for example, on disposal of a foreign
operation (see LKAS 21),on derecognition of available-for-sale financial
assets (see LKAS 39) and when a hedged forecast transaction affects
profit or loss (see paragraph 100 of LKAS 39 
in relation to cash flow
hedges).
Para 123 (a) whether financial assets are held-to-maturity investments;
LKAS 2-Inventories
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 02 Para 2 (b) financial instruments (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation
and LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement);
and
LKAS 8-Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates & Errors
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 8 Para 5 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings
specified:Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs) are Standards and
Interpretations adopted by the Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka). They comprise:
(a) Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs);
(b) Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (LKASs);

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
12A
(c) Statement of Recommended Practices (SoRPs);
(d) Statement of Alternative Treatments (SoATs);
(e) Interpretations adopted by the Council of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka (IFRIC & SIC);
(f) Financial Reporting guidelines issued by the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka.
Para 53 Hindsight should not be used when applying a new accounting policy to,
or correcting amounts for, a prior period, either in making assumptions
about what management’s intentions would have been in a prior period
or estimating the amounts recognised, measured or disclosed in a prior
period. For example, when an entity corrects a prior period 
error in
measuring financial assets previously classified as held to- maturity
investments in accordance with LKAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement , it does not change their basis of
measurement for that period if management decided later not to hold
them to maturity. In addition, when an entity corrects a prior period error
in calculating its liability for employees’ accumulated sick leave in
accordance with LKAS19 Employee Benefits, it disregards information
about an unusually severe influenza season during the next period that
became available after the financial statements for the prior period were
authorised for issue. The fact that significant estimates are frequently
required when amending comparative information presented for prior
periods does not prevent reliable adjustment or correction of the
comparative information.
LKAS 12-Income Taxes
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 12 Para 20 SLFRSs permit or require certain assets to be carried at fair value or to be
revalued (see, for example, LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment ,
LKAS 38 Intangible Assets, LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition
and Measurement and LKAS 40 Investment Property) . In some
jurisdictions, the revaluation or other restatement of an asset to fair value
affects taxable profit (tax loss) for the current period. As a result, the tax
base of the asset is adjusted and no temporary difference arises. In other
jurisdictions, the revaluation or restatement of an asset does not affect
taxable profit in the period of the revaluation or restatement and,
consequently, the tax base of the asset is not adjusted. Nevertheless, the
future recovery of the carrying amount will result in a taxable flow of
economic benefits to the entity and the amount that will be deductible for
tax purposes will differ from the amount of those economic benefits. The
difference between the carrying amount of a revalued asset and its tax
base is a temporary difference and gives rise to a deferred tax liability or
asset. This is true even if:
LKAS 18-Revenue
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 18 Para 6 (d) This Standard does not deal with revenue arising from: changes in the
fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities or their disposal
(see LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement);
Para 11 The difference between the fair value and the nominal amount of the
consideration is recognised as interest revenue in accordance with
paragraphs 29 and 30 and in accordance with 
LKAS 39.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
13A
LAKS 19-Sri Lanka Accounting Standard
Employee Benefits
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard LKAS 19 Employee Benefits is set out in paragraphs1–173. All the paragraphs have equal
authority. LKAS 19 should be read in the context of its objective and the Preface to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and the
Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting . LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and
Errors provides a basis for selecting and applying accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance.
Objective
1 The objective of this Standard is to prescribe the accounting and disclosure for employee benefits. The Standard
requires an entity to recognise:
(a) a liability when an employee has provided service in exchange for employee benefits to be paid in the future; and
(b) an expense when the entity consumes the economic benefit arising from service provided by an employee in
exchange for employee benefits.
Scope
2 This Standard shall be applied by an employer in accounting for all employee benefits, except those to which
SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies.
3 This Standard does not deal with reporting by employee benefit plans (see LKAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by
Retirement Benefit Plans ).
4 The employee benefits to which this Standard applies include those provided:
(a) under formal plans or other formal agreements between an entity and individual employees, groups of employees
or their representatives;
(b) under legislative requirements, or through industry arrangements, whereby entities are required to contribute to
national, state, industry or other multi-employer plans; or
(c) by those informal practices that give rise to a constructive obligation. Informal practices give rise to a constructive
obligation where the entity has no realistic alternative but to pay employee benefits. An example of a constructive
obligation is where a change in the entity’s informal practices would cause unacceptable damage to its relationship
with employees.
5 Employee benefits include:
(a) short-term employee benefits, such as the following, if expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after
the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related services:
(i) wages, salaries and social security contributions;
(ii) paid annual leave and paid sick leave;
(iii) profit-sharing and bonuses; and
(iv) non-monetary benefits (such as medical care, housing, cars and free or subsidised goods or services) for
current employees;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
14A
(b) post-employment benefits, such as the following:
(i) retirement benefits ( eg : pensions and lump sum payments on retirement); and
(ii) other post-employment benefits, such as post-employment life insurance and post-employment medical
care;
(c) other long-term employee benefits, such as the following:
(i) long-term paid absences such as long-service leave or sabbatical leave;
(ii) jubilee or other long-service benefits; and
(iii) long-term disability benefits; and
(d) termination benefits.
6 Employee benefits include benefits provided either to employees or to their dependants or beneficiaries and may be
settled by payments (or the provision of goods or services) made either directly to the employees, to their spouses,
children or other dependants or to others, such as insurance companies.
7 An employee may provide services to an entity on a full-time, part-time, permanent, casual or temporary basis. For the
purpose of this Standard, employees include directors and other management personnel.
Definitions
8 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Definitions of employee benefits
Employee benefits are all forms of consideration given by an entity in exchange for service rendered by employees or
for the termination of employment.
Short-term employee benefits are employee benefits (other than termination benefits) that are expected to be settled
wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related
service.
Post-employment benefits are employee benefits (other than termination benefits and short-term employee benefits)
that are payable after the completion of employment.
Other long-term employee benefits are all employee benefits other than short-term employee benefits, post-employment
benefits and termination benefits.
Termination benefits are employee benefits provided in exchange for the termination of an employee’s employment as
a result of either:
(a) an entity’s decision to terminate an employee’s employment before the normal retirement date; or
(b) an employee’s decision to accept an offer of benefits in exchange for the termination of employment.
Definitions relating to classification of plans
Post-employment benefit plans are formal or informal arrangements under which an entity provides post-employment
benefits for one or more employees.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
15A
Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a
separate entity (a fund) and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does
not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.
Defined benefit plans are post-employment benefit plans other than defined contribution plans.
Multi-employer plans are defined contribution plans (other than state plans) or defined benefit plans (other than state
plans) that:
(a) pool the assets contributed by various entities that are not under common control; and
(b) use those assets to provide benefits to employees of more than one entity, on the basis that contribution and
benefit levels are determined without regard to the identity of the entity that employs the employees.
Definitions relating to the net defined benefit liability (asset)
The net defined benefit liability (asset) is the deficit or surplus, adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined benefit
asset to the asset ceiling.
The deficitor surplus is:
(a) the present value of the defined benefit obligation less
(b) the fair value of plan assets (if any).
The asset ceiling is the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The present value of a defined benefit obligation is the present value, without deducting any plan assets, of expected
future payments required to settle the obligation resulting from employee service in the current and prior periods.
Plan assets comprise:
(a) assets held by a long-term employee benefit fund; and
(b) qualifying insurance policies.
Assets held by a long-term employee benefit fund are assets (other than non-transferable financial instruments
issued by the reporting entity) that:
(a) are held by an entity (a fund) that is legally separate from the reporting entity and exists solely to pay or fund
employee benefits; and
(b) are available to be used only to pay or fund employee benefits, are not available to the reporting entity’s own
creditors (even in bankruptcy), and cannot be returned to the reporting entity, unless either:
(i) the remaining assets of the fund are sufficient to meet all the related employee benefit obligations of the
plan or the reporting entity; or
(ii) the assets are returned to the reporting entity to reimburse it for employee benefits already paid.
A qualifying insurance policy is an insurance policy
1 issued by an insurer that is not a related party (as defined in
LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures) of the reporting entity, if the proceeds of the policy:
1 A qualifying insurance policy is not necessarily an insurance contract, as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
16A
(a) can be used only to pay or fund employee benefits under a defined benefit plan; and
(b) are not available to the reporting entity’s own creditors (even in bankruptcy) and cannot be paid to the reporting
entity, unless either:
(i) the proceeds represent surplus assets that are not needed for the policy to meet all the related employee
benefit obligations; or
(ii) the proceeds are returned to the reporting entity to reimburse it for employee benefits already paid.
Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability settled between knowledgeable, willing
parties in an arm’s length transaction.
Definitions relating to defined benefit cost
Service cost comprises:
(a) current service cost, which is the increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from
employee service in the current period;
(b) past service cost, which is the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation for employee service
in prior periods, resulting from a plan amendment (the introduction or withdrawal of, or changes to, a defined
benefit plan) or a curtailment (a significant reduction by the entity in the number of employees covered by a plan);
and
(c) any gain or loss on settlement.
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) is the change during the period in the net defined benefit
liability (asset) that arises from the passage of time.
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) comprise:
(a) actuarial gains and losses;
(b) the return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset);
and
(c) any change in the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit
liability (asset).
Actuarial gains and losses are changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from:
(a) experience adjustments (the effects of differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has
actually occurred); and
(b) the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions.
The return on plan assets is interest, dividends and other income derived from the plan assets, together with realised
and unrealised gains or losses on the plan assets, less:
(a) any costs of managing plan assets; and
(b) any tax payable by the plan itself, other than tax included in the actuarial assumptions used to measure the
present value of the defined benefit obligation.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
17A
A settlement is a transaction that eliminates all further legal or constructive obligations for part or all of the benefits
provided under a defined benefit plan, other than a payment of benefits to, or on behalf of, employees that is set out in
the terms of the plan and included in the actuarial assumptions.
Short-term employee benefits
9 Short-term employee benefits include items such as the following, if expected to be settled wholly before twelve
months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related services:
(a) wages, salaries and social security contributions;
(b) paid annual leave and paid sick leave;
(c) profit-sharing and bonuses; and
(d) non-monetary benefits (such as medical care, housing, cars and free or subsidised goods or services) for current
employees.
10 An entity need not reclassify a short-term employee benefit if the entity’s expectations of the timing of settlement
change temporarily. However, if the characteristics of the benefit change (such as a change from a non-accumulating
benefit to an accumulating benefit) or if a change in expectations of the timing of settlement is not temporary, then the
entity considers whether the benefit still meets the definition of short-term employee benefits.
Recognition and measurement
All short-term employee benefits
11 When an employee has rendered service to an entity during an accounting period, the entity shall recognise the
undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for that service:
(a) as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any amount already paid. If the amount already paid exceeds the
undiscounted amount of the benefits, an entity shall recognise that excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the
extent that the prepayment will lead to, for example, a reduction in future payments or a cash refund.
(b) as an expense, unless another SLFRS requires or permits the inclusion of the benefits in the cost of an asset
(see, for example, LKAS 2 
Inventories and LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment).
12 Paragraphs 13, 16 and 19 explain how an entity shall apply paragraph 11 to short-term employee benefits in the form
of paid absences and profit-sharing and bonus plans.
Short-term paid absences
13 An entity shall recognise the expected cost of short-term employee benefits in the form of paid absences under
paragraph 11 as follows:
(a) in the case of accumulating paid absences, when the employees render service that increases their entitlement
to future paid absences.
(b) in the case of non-accumulating paid absences, when the absences occur.
14 An entity may pay employees for absence for various reasons including holidays, sickness and short-term disability,
maternity or paternity, jury service and military service. Entitlement to paid absences falls into two categories:

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
18A
(a) accumulating; and
(b) non-accumulating.
15 Accumulating paid absences are those that are carried forward and can be used in future periods if the current period’s
entitlement is not used in full. Accumulating paid absences may be either vesting (in other words, employees are
entitled to a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving the entity) or non-vesting (when employees are not
entitled to a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving). An obligation arises as employees render service that
increases their entitlement to future paid absences. The obligation exists, and is recognised, even if the paid absences
are non-vesting, although the possibility that employees may leave before they use an accumulated non-vesting
entitlement affects the measurement of that obligation.
16 An entity shall measure the expected cost of accumulating paid absences as the additional amount that the entity
expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the reporting period.
17 The method specified in the previous paragraph measures the obligation at the amount of the additional payments that
are expected to arise solely from the fact that the benefit accumulates. In many cases, an entity may not need to make
detailed computations to estimate that there is no material obligation for unused paid absences. For example, a sick
leave obligation is likely to be material only if there is a formal or informal understanding that unused paid sick leave
may be taken as paid annual leave.
Example illustrating paragraphs 16 and 17
An entity has 100 employees, who are each entitled to five working days of paid sick leave for each year.
Unused sick leave may be carried forward for one calendar year. Sick leave is taken first out of the current
year’s entitlement and then out of any balance brought forward from the previous year (a LIFO basis). At
31 December 20X1 the average unused entitlement is two days per employee. The entity expects, on the
basis of experience that is expected to continue, that 92 employees will take no more than five days of paid
sick leave in 20X2 and that the remaining eight employees will take an average of six and a half days each.
The entity expects that it will pay an additional twelve days of sick pay as a result of the unused entitlement
that has accumulated at 31 December 20X1 (one and a half days each, for eight employees). Therefore, the
entity recognises a liability equal to twelve days of sick pay.
18 Non-accumulating paid absences do not carry forward: they lapse if the current period’s entitlement is not used in full
and do not entitle employees to a cash payment for unused entitlement on leaving the entity. This is commonly the case
for sick pay (to the extent that unused past entitlement does not increase future entitlement), maternity or paternity
leave and paid absences for jury service or military service. An entity recognises no liability or expense until the time
of the absence, because employee service does not increase the amount of the benefit.
Profit-sharing and bonus plans
19 An entity shall recognise the expected cost of profit-sharing and bonus payments under paragraph 11 when, and only
when:
(a) the entity has a present legal or constructive obligation to make such payments as a result of past events; and
(b) a reliable estimate of the obligation can be made.
A present obligation exists when, and only when, the entity has no realistic alternative but to make the payments.
20 Under some profit-sharing plans, employees receive a share of the profit only if they remain with the entity for a
specified period. Such plans create a constructive obligation as employees render service that increases the

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
19A
amount to be paid if they remain in service until the end of the specified period. The measurement of such
constructive obligations reflects the possibility that some employees may leave without receiving profit-sharing
payments.
Example  illustrating  paragraph 20
A profit-sharing plan requires an entity to pay a specified proportion of its profit for the year to employees
who serve throughout the year. If no employees leave during the year, the total profit-sharing payments for
the year will be 3 per cent of profit. The entity estimates that staff turnover will reduce the payments to 2.5
per cent of profit.
The entity recognizes a liability and an expense of 2.5 percent of profit.
21 An entity may have no legal obligation to pay a bonus. Nevertheless, in some cases, an entity has a practice of paying
bonuses. In such cases, the entity has a constructive obligation because the entity has no realistic alternative but to
pay the bonus. The measurement of the constructive obligation reflects the possibility that some employees may leave
without receiving a bonus.
22 An entity can make a reliable estimate of its legal or constructive obligation under a profit-sharing or bonus plan when,
and only when:
(a) the formal terms of the plan contain a formula for determining the amount of the benefit;
(b) the entity determines the amounts to be paid before the financial statements are authorised for issue; or
(c) past practice gives clear evidence of the amount of the entity’s constructive obligation.
23 An obligation under profit-sharing and bonus plans results from employee service and not from a transaction with the
entity’s owners. Therefore, an entity recognises the cost of profit-sharing and bonus plans not as a distribution of
profit but as an expense.
24 If profit-sharing and bonus payments are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the
annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service, those payments are other long-term employee
benefits (see paragraphs 153–158).
Disclosure
25 Although this Standard does not require specific disclosures about short-term employee benefits, other SLFRSs may
require disclosures. For example, LKAS 24 requires disclosures about employee benefits for key management personnel.
LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements  requires disclosure of employee benefits expense.
Post-employment benefits: distinction between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans
26 Post-employment benefits include items such as the following:
(a) retirement benefits (eg: pensions and lump sum payments on retirement);and
(b) other post-employment benefits, such as post-employment life insurance and post-employment medical care.
Arrangements whereby an entity provides post-employment benefits are post-employment benefit plans. An
entity applies this Standard to all such arrangements whether or not they involve the establishment of a separate
entity to receive contributions and to pay benefits.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
20A
27 Post-employment benefit plans are classified as either defined contribution plans or defined benefit plans, depending
on the economic substance of the plan as derived from its principal terms and conditions.
28 Under defined contribution plans the entity’s legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount that it agrees to
contribute to the fund. Thus, the amount of the post-employment benefits received by the employee is determined by
the amount of contributions paid by an entity (and perhaps also the employee) to a post-employment benefit plan or to
an insurance company, together with investment returns arising from the contributions. In consequence, actuarial risk
(that benefits will be less than expected) and investment risk (that assets invested will be insufficient to meet expected
benefits) fall, in substance, on the employee.
29 Examples of cases where an entity’s obligation is not limited to the amount that it agrees to contribute to the fund are
when the entity has a legal or constructive obligation through:
(a) a plan benefit formula that is not linked solely to the amount of contributions and requires the entity to provide
further contributions if assets are insufficient to meet the benefits in the plan benefit formula;
(b) a guarantee, either indirectly through a plan or directly, of a specified return on contributions; or
(c) those informal practices that give rise to a constructive obligation. For example, a constructive obligation may
arise where an entity has a history of increasing benefits for former employees to keep pace with inflation even
where there is no legal obligation to do so.
30 Under defined benefit plans:
(a) the entity’s obligation is to provide the agreed benefits to current and former employees; and
(b) actuarial risk (that benefits will cost more than expected) and investment risk fall, in substance, on the entity. If
actuarial or investment experience are worse than expected, the entity’s obligation may be increased.
31 Paragraphs 32–49 explain the distinction between defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans in the context
of multi-employer plans, defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control, state plans and
insured benefits.
Multi-employer plans
32 An entity shall classify a multi-employer plan as a defined contribution plan or a defined benefit plan under the terms
of the plan (including any constructive obligation that goes beyond the formal terms).
33 If an entity participates in a multi-employer defined benefit plan, unless paragraph 34 applies, it shall:
(a) account for its proportionate share of the defined benefit obligation, plan assets and cost associated with the plan
in the same way as for any other defined benefit plan; and
(b) disclose the information required by paragraphs 135–148 (excluding paragraph 148(d)).
34 When sufficient information is not available to use defined benefit accounting for a multi-employer defined benefit
plan, an entity shall:
(a) account for the plan in accordance with paragraphs 51 and 52 as if it were a defined contribution plan; and
(b) disclose the information required by paragraph 148.
35 One example of a multi-employer defined benefit plan is one where:

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
21A
(a) the plan is financed on a pay-as-you-go basis: contributions are set at a level that is expected to be sufficient to
pay the benefits falling due in the same period; and future benefits earned during the current period will be paid out
of future contributions; and
(b) employees’ benefits are determined by the length of their service and the participating entities have no realistic
means of withdrawing from the plan without paying a contribution for the benefits earned by employees up to the
date of withdrawal. Such a plan creates actuarial risk for the entity: if the ultimate cost of benefits already earned
at the end of the reporting period is more than expected, the entity will have either to increase its contributions or
to persuade employees to accept a reduction in benefits. Therefore, such a plan is a defined benefit plan.
36 Where sufficient information is available about a multi-employer defined benefit plan, an entity accounts for its
proportionate share of the defined benefit obligation, plan assets and post-employment cost associated with the plan
in the same way as for any other defined benefit plan. However, an entity may not be able to identify its share of the
underlying financial position and performance of the plan with sufficient reliability for accounting purposes. This may
occur if:
(a) the plan exposes the participating entities to actuarial risks associated with the current and former employees of
other entities, with the result that there is no consistent and reliable basis for allocating the obligation, plan assets
and cost to individual entities participating in the plan; or
(b) the entity does not have access to sufficient information about the plan to satisfy the requirements of this
Standard.
In those cases, an entity accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution plan and discloses the information
required by paragraph 148.
37 There may be a contractual agreement between the multi-employer plan and its participants that determines how the
surplus in the plan will be distributed to the participants (or the deficit funded). A participant in a multi-employer plan
with such an agreement that accounts for the plan as a defined contribution plan in accordance with paragraph 34 shall
recognise the asset or liability that arises from the contractual agreement and the resulting income or expense in profit
or loss.
Example  illustrating  paragraph 37
An entity participates in a multi-employer defined benefit plan that does not prepare plan valuations on an
LKAS 19 basis. It therefore accounts for the plan as if it were a defined contribution plan. A non-LKAS 19
funding valuation shows a deficit of Rs.100 million in the plan. The plan has agreed under contract a
schedule of contributions with the participating employers in the plan that will eliminate the deficit over the
next five years. The entity’s total contributions under the contract are Rs. 8 million.
The entity recognises a liability for the contributions adjusted for the time value of money and an equal
expense in profit or loss.
(a) In this Standard monetary amounts are denominated in ‘Sri Lanka Rupees (Rs.)’
38 Multi-employer plans are distinct from group administration plans. A group administration plan is merely an aggregation
of single employer plans combined to allow participating employers to pool their assets for investment purposes and
reduce investment management and administration costs, but the claims of different employers are segregated for the
sole benefit of their own employees. Group administration plans pose no particular accounting problems because
information is readily available to treat them in the same way as any other single employer plan and because such plans
do not expose the participating entities to actuarial risks associated with the current and former employees of other
entities. The definitions in this Standard require an entity to classify a group administration plan as a defined contribution
plan or a defined benefit plan in accordance with the terms of the plan (including any constructive obligation that goes
beyond the formal terms).
39 In determining when to recognise, and how to measure, a liability relating to the wind-up of a multi-employer defined
benefit plan, or the entity’s withdrawal from a multi-employer defined benefit plan, an entity shall apply LKAS37
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
22A
Defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control
40 Defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control, for example, a parent and its subsidiaries,
are not multi-employer plans.
41 An entity participating in such a plan shall obtain information about the plan as a whole measured in accordance with
this Standard on the basis of assumptions that apply to the plan as a whole. If there is a contractual agreement or stated
policy for charging to individual group entities the net defined benefit cost for the plan as a whole measured in
accordance with this Standard, the entity shall, in its separate or individual financial statements, recognise the net
defined benefit cost so charged. If there is no such agreement or policy, the net defined benefit cost shall be recognised
in the separate or individual financial statements of the group entity that is legally the sponsoring employer for the
plan. The other group entities shall, in their separate or individual financial statements, recognise a cost equal to their
contribution payable for the period.
42 Participation in such a plan is a related party transaction for each individual group entity. An entity shall therefore, in
its separate or individual financial statements, disclose the information required by paragraph 149.
State plans
43 An entity shall account for a State plan in the same way as for a multi-employer plan (see paragraphs 32–39).
44 State plans are established by legislation to cover all entities (or all entities in a particular category, for example, a
specific industry) and are operated by National or Local Government or by another body (for example, an autonomous
agency created specifically for this purpose) that is not subject to control or influence by the reporting entity. Some
plans established by an entity provide both compulsory benefits, as a substitute for benefits that would otherwise be
covered under a state plan, and additional voluntary benefits. Such plans are not state plans.
45 State plans are characterised as defined benefit or defined contribution, depending on the entity’s obligation under the
plan. Many state plans are funded on a pay-as-you-go basis: contributions are set at a level that is expected to be
sufficient to pay the required benefits falling due in the same period; future benefits earned during the current period
will be paid out of future contributions. Nevertheless, in most state plans the entity has no legal or constructive
obligation to pay those future benefits: its only obligation is to pay the contributions as they fall due and if the entity
ceases to employ members of the state plan, it will have no obligation to pay the benefits earned by its own employees
in previous years. For this reason, state plans are normally defined contribution plans. However, when a state plan is
a defined benefit plan an entity applies paragraphs 32–39.
Insured benefits
46 An entity may pay insurance premiums to fund a post-employment benefit plan. The entity shall treat such a plan as
a defined contribution plan unless the entity will have (either directly, or indirectly through the plan) a legal or
constructive obligation either:
(a) to pay the employee benefits directly when they fall due; or
(b) to pay further amounts if the insurer does not pay all future employee benefits relating to employee service in the
current and prior periods.
If the entity retains such a legal or constructive obligation, the entity shall treat the plan as a defined benefit plan.
47 The benefits insured by an insurance policy need not have a direct or automatic relationship with the entity’s obligation
for employee benefits. Post-employment benefit plans involving insurance policies are subject to the same distinction
between accounting and funding as other funded plans.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
23A
48 Where an entity funds a post-employment benefit obligation by contributing to an insurance policy under which the
entity (either directly, indirectly through the plan, through the mechanism for setting future premiums or through a
related party relationship with the insurer) retains a legal or constructive obligation, the payment of the premiums does
not amount to a defined contribution arrangement. It follows that the entity:
(a) accounts for a qualifying insurance policy as a plan asset (see paragraph 8);and
(b) recognises other insurance policies as reimbursement rights (if the policies satisfy the criterion in paragraph 116).
49 Where an insurance policy is in the name of a specified plan participant or a group of plan participants and the entity
does not have any legal or constructive obligation to cover any loss on the policy, the entity has no obligation to pay
benefits to the employees and the insurer has sole responsibility for paying the benefits. The payment of fixed
premiums under such contracts is, in substance, the settlement of the employee benefit obligation, rather than an
investment to meet the obligation. Consequently, the entity no longer has an asset or a liability. Therefore, an entity
treats such payments as contributions to a defined contribution plan.
Post-employment benefits: defined contribution plans
50 Accounting for defined contribution plans is straightforward because the reporting entity’s obligation for each period
is determined by the amounts to be contributed for that period. Consequently, no actuarial assumptions are required to
measure the obligation or the expense and there is no possibility of any actuarial gain or loss. Moreover, the obligations
are measured on an undiscounted basis, except where they are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months
after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service.
Recognition and measurement
51 When an employee has rendered service to an entity during a period, the entity shall recognise the contribution
payable to a defined contribution plan in exchange for that service:
(a) as a liability (accrued expense), after deducting any contribution already paid. If the contribution already paid
exceeds the contribution due for service before the end of the reporting period, an entity shall recognise that
excess as an asset (prepaid expense) to the extent that the prepayment will lead to, for example, a reduction in
future payments or a cash refund;
(b) as an expense, unless another SLFRS requires or permits the inclusion of the contribution in the cost of an asset
(see, for example, LKAS 2 and LKAS 16).
52 When contributions to a defined contribution plan are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the
end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service, they shall be discounted using
the discount rate specified in paragraph 83.
Disclosure
53 An entity shall disclose the amount recognised as an expense for defined contribution plans.
54 Where required by LKAS 24 an entity discloses information about contributions to defined contribution plans for key
management personnel.
Post-employment benefits: defined benefit plans
55 Accounting for defined benefit plans is complex because actuarial assumptions are required to measure the obligation
and the expense and there is a possibility of actuarial gains and losses. Moreover, the obligations are measured on a
discounted basis because they may be settled many years after the employees render the related service.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
24A
Recognition and measurement
56 Defined benefit plans may be unfunded, or they may be wholly or partly funded by contributions by an entity, and
sometimes its employees, into an entity, or fund, that is legally separate from the reporting entity and from which the
employee benefits are paid. The payment of funded benefits when they fall due depends not only on the financial
position and the investment performance of the fund but also on an entity’s ability, and willingness, to make good any
shortfall in the fund’s assets. Therefore, the entity is, in substance, underwriting the actuarial and investment risks
associated with the plan. Consequently, the expense recognised for a defined benefit plan is not necessarily the
amount of the contribution due for the period.
57 Accounting by an entity for defined benefit plans involves the following steps:
(a) determining the deficit or surplus. This involves:
(i) using an actuarial technique, the projected unit credit method, to make a reliable estimate of the ultimate cost
to the entity of the benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior
periods (see paragraphs 67–69). This requires an entity to determine how much benefit is attributable to the
current and prior periods (see paragraphs 70–74) and to make estimates (actuarial assumptions) about
demographic variables (such as employee turnover and mortality) and financial variables (such as future
increases in salaries and medical costs) that will affect the cost of the benefit (see paragraphs 75–98);
(ii) discounting that benefit in order to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the
current service cost (see paragraphs 67–69 and 83–86);
(iii) deducting the fair value of any plan assets (see paragraphs 113–115) from the present value of the defined
benefit obligation.
(b) determining the amount of the net defined benefit liability (asset) as the amount of the deficit or surplus determined
in (a), adjusted for any effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling (see paragraph 64).
(c) determining amounts to be recognised in profit or loss:
(i) current service cost (see paragraphs 70–74);
(ii) any past service cost and gain or loss on settlement (see paragraphs 99–112);
(iii) net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 123–126).
(d) determining the remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset), to be recognised in other comprehensive
income, comprising:
(i) actuarial gains and losses (see paragraphs 128 and 129);
(ii) return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset)
(see paragraph 130); and
(iii) any change in the effect of the asset ceiling (see paragraph 64), excluding amounts included in net interest
on the net defined benefit liability (asset).
Where an entity has more than one defined benefit plan, the entity applies these procedures for each material plan
separately.
58 An entity shall determine the net defined benefit liability (asset) with sufficient regularity that the amounts recognised
in the financial statements do not differ materially from the amounts that would be determined at the end of the
reporting period.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
25A
59 This Standard encourages, but does not require, an entity to involve a qualified actuary in the measurement of all
material post-employment benefit obligations. For practical reasons, an entity may request a qualified actuary to carry
out a detailed valuation of the obligation before the end of the reporting period. Nevertheless, the results of that
valuation are updated for any material transactions and other material changes in circumstances (including changes in
market prices and interest rates) up to the end of the reporting period.
60 In some cases, estimates, averages and computational short cuts may provide a reliable approximation of the detailed
computations illustrated in this Standard.
Accounting for the constructive obligation
61 An entity shall account not only for its legal obligation under the formal terms of a defined benefit plan, but also for
any constructive obligation that arises from the entity’s informal practices. Informal practices give rise to a
constructive obligation where the entity has no realistic alternative but to pay employee benefits. An example of a
constructive obligation is where a change in the entity’s informal practices would cause unacceptable damage to its
relationship with employees.
62 The formal terms of a defined benefit plan may permit an entity to terminate its obligation under the plan. Nevertheless,
it is usually difficult for an entity to terminate its obligation under a plan (without payment) if employees are to be
retained. Therefore, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, accounting for post-employment benefits assumes that
an entity that is currently promising such benefits will continue to do so over the remaining working lives of employees.
Statement of financial position
63 An entity shall recognise the net defined benefit liability (asset) in the statement of financial position.
64 When an entity has a surplus in a defined benefit plan, it shall measure the net defined benefit asset at the lower of:
(a) the surplus in the defined benefit plan; and
(b) the asset ceiling, determined using the discount rate specified in paragraph 83.
65 A net defined benefit asset may arise where a defined benefit plan has been overfunded or where actuarial gains have
arisen. An entity recognises a net defined benefit asset in such cases because:
(a) the entity controls a resource, which is the ability to use the surplus to generate future benefits;
(b) that control is a result of past events (contributions paid by the entity and service rendered by the employee); and
(c) future economic benefits are available to the entity in the form of a reduction in future contributions or a cash
refund, either directly to the entity or indirectly to another plan in deficit. The asset ceiling is the present value of
those future benefits.
Recognition and measurement: present value of defined benefit obligations and current service cost
66 The ultimate cost of a defined benefit plan may be influenced by many variables, such as final salaries, employee
turnover and mortality, employee contributions and medical cost trends. The ultimate cost of the plan is uncertain and
this uncertainty is likely to persist over a long period of time. In order to measure the present value of the post-
employment benefit obligations and the related current service cost, it is necessary:
(a) to apply an actuarial valuation method (see paragraphs 67–69);
(b) to attribute benefit to periods of service (see paragraphs 70–74); and

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
26A
(c) to make actuarial assumptions (see paragraphs 75–98).
Actuarial valuation method
67 An entity shall use the projected unit credit method to determine the present value of its defined benefit obligations
and the related current service cost and, where applicable, past service cost.
68 The projected unit credit method (sometimes known as the accrued benefit method pro-rated on service or as the
benefit/years of service method) sees each period of service as giving rise to an additional unit of benefit entitlement
(see paragraphs 70–74) and measures each unit separately to build up the final obligation (see paragraphs 75–98).
Example illustrating paragraph 68
A lump sum benefit is payable on termination of service and equal to 1 per cent of final salary for each year
of service. The salary in year 1 is Rs.10,000 and is assumed to increase at 7 per cent (compound) each year.
The discount rate used is 10 per cent per year. The following table shows how the obligation builds up for
an employee who is expected to leave at the end of year 5, assuming that there are no changes in actuarial
assumptions. For simplicity, this example ignores the additional adjustment needed to reflect the probability
that the employee may leave the entity at an earlier or later date.
Year 12 3 4 5
Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs. Rs.
Benefit attributed to:
–prior years 0 131 262 393 524
–current year(1% of final salary) 131 131 131 131 131
–current and prior years 131 262 393 524 655
Opening obligation – 89 196 324 476
Interest at10% – 9 20 33 48
Current service cost 89 98 108 119 131
Closing obligation 89 196 324 476 655
Note:
1. The opening obligation is the present value of the benefit attributed to prior years.
2. The current service cost is the present value of the benefit attributed to the current year.
3. The closing obligation is the present value of the benefit attributed to current and prior years.
69 An entity discounts the whole of a post-employment benefit obligation, even if part of the obligation is expected to be
settled before twelve months after the reporting period.
Attributing benefit to periods of service
70 In determining the present value of its defined benefit obligations and the related current service cost and, where
applicable, past service cost, an entity shall attribute benefit to periods of service under the plan’s benefit formula.
However, if an employee’s service in later years will lead to a materially higher level of benefit than in earlier years,
an entity shall attribute benefit on a straight-line basis from:
(a) the date when service by the employee first leads to benefits under the plan (whether or not the benefits are
conditional on further service) until,
(b) the date when further service by the employee will lead to no material amount of further benefits under the plan,
other than from further salary increases.
71 The projected unit credit method requires an entity to attribute benefit to the current period (in order to determine
current service cost) and the current and prior periods (in order to determine the present value of defined benefit

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
27A
obligations). An entity attributes benefit to periods in which the obligation to provide post-employment benefits
arises. That obligation arises as employees render services in return for post-employment benefits that an entity
expects to pay in future reporting periods. Actuarial techniques allow an entity to measure that obligation with
sufficient reliability to justify recognition of a liability.
Examples illustrating paragraph 71
1 A defined benefit plan provides a lump sum benefit of Rs.100 payable on retirement for each year of
service.
A benefit of Rs.100 is attributed to each year. The current service cost is the present value of Rs.100.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the present value of Rs.100, multiplied by the
number of years of service up to the end of the reporting period.If the benefit is payable immediately
when the employee leaves the entity, the current service cost and the present value of the defined
benefit obligation reflect the date at which the employee is expected to leave. Thus, because of the
effect of discounting, they are less than the amounts that would be determined if the employee left at
the end of the reporting period.
2 A plan provides a monthly pension of 0.2 per cent of final salary for each year of service. The pension
is payable from the age of 65.
Benefit equal to the present value, at the expected retirement date, of a monthly pension of 0.2 per
cent of the estimated final salary payable from the expected retirement date until the expected date of
death is attributed to each year of service. The current service cost is the present value of that benefit.
The present value of the defined benefit obligation is the present value of monthly pension payments
of 0.2 per cent of final salary, multiplied by the number of years of service up to the end of the
reporting period. The current service cost and the present value of the defined benefit obligation are
discounted because pension payments begin at the age of 65.
72 Employee service gives rise to an obligation under a defined benefit plan even if the benefits are conditional on future
employment (in other words they are not vested). Employee service before the vesting date gives rise to a constructive
obligation because, at the end of each successive reporting period, the amount of future service that an employee will
have to render before becoming entitled to the benefit is reduced. In measuring its defined benefit obligation, an entity
considers the probability that some employees may not satisfy any vesting requirements. Similarly, although some
post-employment benefits, for example, post-employment medical benefits, become payable only if a specified event
occurs when an employee is no longer employed, an obligation is created when the employee renders service that will
provide entitlement to the benefit if the specified event occurs. The probability that the specified event will occur
affects the measurement of the obligation, but does not determine whether the obligation exists.
Examples illustrating paragraph 72
1 A plan pays a benefit of Rs.100 for each year of service. The benefits vest after ten years of service.
A benefit of Rs.100 is attributed to each year. In each of the first ten years, the current service cost and
the present value of the obligation reflect the probability that the employee may not complete ten
years of service
2 A plan pays a benefit of Rs.100 for each year of service, excluding service before the age of 25. The
benefits vest immediately.
No benefit is attributed to service before the age of 25 because service before that date does not lead
to benefits (conditional or unconditional). A benefit of Rs.100 is attributed to each subsequent year.
73 The obligation increases until the date when further service by the employee will lead to no material amount of further
benefits. Therefore, all benefit is attributed to periods ending on or before that date. Benefit is attributed to individual
accounting periods under the plan’s benefit formula. However, if an employee’s service in later years will lead to a
materially higher level of benefit than in earlier years, an entity attributes benefit on a straight-line basis until the date
when further service by the employee will lead to no material amount of further benefits. That is because the employee’s
service throughout the entire period will ultimately lead to benefit at that higher level.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
28A
Examples illustrating paragraph 73
1 A plan pays a lump sum benefit of Rs.1,000 that vests after ten years of service. The plan provides no
further benefit for subsequent service.
A benefit of Rs.100 (Rs.1,000 divided by ten) is attributed to each of the first ten years.
The current service cost in each of the first ten years reflects the probability that the employee may
not complete ten years of service. No benefit is attributed to subsequent years.
2 A plan pays a lump sum retirement benefit of Rs. 2,000 to all employees who are still employed at the age
of 55 after twenty years of service, or who are still employed at the age of 65, regardless of their length
of service.
For employees who join before the age of 35, service first leads to benefits under the plan at the age of 35
(an employee could leave at the age of 30 and return at the age of 33, with no effect on the amount or
timing of benefits). Those benefits are conditional on further service. Also, service beyond the age of 55
will lead to no material amount of further benefits. For these employees, the entity attributes benefit of
Rs.100 (Rs.2,000 divided by twenty) to each year from the age of 35 to the age of 55.
For employees who join between the ages of 35 and 45, service beyond twenty years will lead to no
material amount of further benefits. For these employees, the entity attributes benefit of 100 (2,000
divided by twenty) to each of the first twenty years.
For an employees who joins at the age of 55, service beyond ten years will lead to no material amount of
further benefits. For this employee, the entity attributes benefit of Rs.200 (Rs.2,000 divided by ten) to
each of the first ten years.
For all employees, the current service cost and the present value of the obligation reflect the probability
that the employee may not complete the necessary period of service.
3 A post-employment medical plan reimburses 40 per cent of an employee’s post-employment medical
costs if the employee leaves  after more than ten and less than twenty years of service and 50 per cent
of those costs if the employee leaves after twenty or more years of service.
Under the plan’ s benefit formula, the entity attributes 4 per cent of the present value of the expected
medical costs (40 per cent divided by ten) to each of the first ten years and 1 per cent (10 per cent
divided by ten) to each of the second ten years. The current service cost in each year reflects the
probability that the employee may not complete the necessary period of service to earn part or all of
the benefits. For employees expected to leave within ten years, no benefit is attributed.
4 A post-employment medical plan reimburses 10 per cent of an employee’s post-employment medical
costs if the employee leaves after more than ten and less than twenty years of service and 50 per cent
of those costs if the employee leaves after twenty or more years of service.
Service in later years will lead to a materially higher level of benefit than in earlier years. Therefore,
for employees expected to leave after twenty or more years, the entity attributes benefit on a straight-
line basis under paragraph 71. Service beyond twenty years will lead to no material amount of
further benefits. Therefore, the benefit attributed to each of the first twenty years is 2.5 per cent of the
present value of the expected medical costs (50 per cent divided by twenty).
For employees expected to leave between ten and twenty years, the benefit attributed to each of the
first ten years is 1 per cent of the present value of the expected medical costs. For these employees, no
benefit is attributed to service between the end of the tenth year and the estimated date of leaving.
For employees expected to leave within ten years, no benefit is attributed.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
29A
74 Where the amount of a benefit is a constant proportion of final salary for each year of service, future salary increases
will affect the amount required to settle the obligation that exists for service before the end of the reporting period, but
do not create an additional obligation. Therefore:
(a) for the purpose of paragraph 70(b), salary increases do not lead to further benefits, even though the amount of the
benefits is dependent on final salary; and
(b) the amount of benefit attributed to each period is a constant proportion of the salary to which the benefit is linked.
Example illustrating paragraph 74
Employees are entitled to a benefit of 3 per cent of final salary for each year of service before the age of 55.
Benefit of 3 per cent of estimated final salary is attributed to each year up to the age of 55. This is the date
when further service by the employee will lead to no material amount of further benefits under the plan.
No benefit is attributed to service after that age.
Actuarial assumptions
75 Actuarial assumptions shall be unbiased and mutually compatible.
76 Actuarial assumptions are an entity’s best estimates of the variables that will determine the ultimate cost of providing
post-employment benefits. Actuarial assumptions comprise:
(a) demographic assumptions about the future characteristics of current and former employees (and their dependants)
who are eligible for benefits. Demographic assumptions deal with matters such as:
(i) mortality (see paragraphs 81 and 82);
(ii) rates of employee turnover, disability and early retirement;
(iii) the proportion of plan members with dependants who will be eligible for benefits;
(iv) the proportion of plan members who will select each form of payment option available under the plan terms;
and
(v) claim rates under medical plans.
(b) financial assumptions, dealing with items such as:
(i) the discount rate (see paragraphs 83–86);
(ii) benefit levels, excluding any cost of the benefits to be met by employees, and future salary (see paragraphs
87–95);
(iii) in the case of medical benefits, future medical costs, including claim handling costs (ie. the costs that will be
incurred in processing and resolving claims, including legal and adjuster’s fees) (see paragraphs96–98); and
(iv) taxes payable by the plan on contributions relating to service before the reporting date or on benefits
resulting from that service.
77 Actuarial assumptions are unbiased if they are neither imprudent nor excessively conservative.
78 Actuarial assumptions are mutually compatible if they reflect the economic relationships between factors such as
inflation, rates of salary increase and discount rates. For example, all assumptions that depend on a particular inflation

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
30A
level (such as assumptions about interest rates and salary and benefit increases) in any given future period assume the
same inflation level in that period.
79 An entity determines the discount rate and other financial assumptions in nominal (stated) terms, unless estimates in
real (inflation-adjusted) terms are more reliable, for example, in a hyperinflationary economy (see LKAS 29 Financial
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies), or where the benefit is index-linked and there is a deep market in index-
linked bonds of the same currency and term.
80 Financial assumptions shall be based on market expectations, at the end of the reporting period, for the period over
which the obligations are to be settled.
Actuarial assumptions: mortality
81 An entity shall determine its mortality assumptions by reference to its best estimate of the mortality of plan members
both during and after employment.
82 In order to estimate the ultimate cost of the benefit an entity takes into consideration expected changes in mortality, for
example by modifying standard mortality tables with estimates of mortality improvements.
Actuarial assumptions: discount rate
83 The rate used to discount post-employment benefit obligations (both funded and unfunded) shall be determined by
reference to market yields at the end of the reporting period on high quality corporate bonds. In countries where
there is no deep market in such bonds, the market yields (at the end of the reporting period) on government bonds
shall be used. The currency and term of the corporate bonds or government bonds shall be consistent with the
currency and estimated term of the post-employment benefit obligations.
84 One actuarial assumption that has a material effect is the discount rate. The discount rate reflects the time value of
money but not the actuarial or investment risk. Furthermore, the discount rate does not reflect the entity-specific credit
risk borne by the entity’s creditors, nor does it reflect the risk that future experience may differ from actuarial assumptions.
85 The discount rate reflects the estimated timing of benefit payments. In practice, an entity often achieves this by
applying a single weighted average discount rate that reflects the estimated timing and amount of benefit payments
and the currency in which the benefits are to be paid.
86 In some cases, there may be no deep market in bonds with a sufficiently long maturity to match the estimated maturity
of all the benefit payments. In such cases, an entity uses current market rates of the appropriate term to discount
shorter-term payments, and estimates the discount rate for longer maturities by extrapolating current market rates
along the yield curve. The total present value of a defined benefit obligation is unlikely to be particularly sensitive to
the discount rate applied to the portion of benefits that is payable beyond the final maturity of the available corporate
or government bonds.
Actuarial assumptions: salaries, benefits and medical costs
87 An entity shall measure its defined benefit obligations on a basis that reflects:
(a) the benefits set out in the terms of the plan (or resulting from any constructive obligation that goes beyond those
terms) at the end of the reporting period;
(b) any estimated future salary increases that affect the benefits payable;
(c) the effect of any limit on the employer’s share of the cost of the future benefits;
(d) contributions from employees or third parties that reduce the ultimate cost to the entity of those benefits; and

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
31A
(e) estimated future changes in the level of any state benefits that affect the benefits payable under a defined benefit
plan, if, and only if, either:
(i) those changes were enacted before the end of the reporting period; or
(ii) historical data, or other reliable evidence, indicate that those state benefits will change in some predictable
manner, for example, in line with future changes in general price levels or general salary levels.
88 Actuarial assumptions reflect future benefit changes that are set out in the formal terms of a plan (or a constructive
obligation that goes beyond those terms) at the end of the reporting period. This is the case if, for example:
(a) the entity has a history of increasing benefits, for example, to mitigate the effects of inflation, and there is no
indication that this practice will change in the future;
(b) the entity is obliged, by either the formal terms of a plan (or a constructive obligation that goes beyond those
terms) or legislation, to use any surplus in the plan for the benefit of plan participants (see paragraph 108(c));
or
(c) benefits vary in response to a performance target or other criteria. For example, the terms of the plan may
state that it will pay reduced benefits or require additional contributions from employees if the plan assets
are insufficient. The measurement of the obligation reflects the best estimate of the effect of the performance
target or other criteria.
89 Actuarial assumptions do not reflect future benefit changes that are not set out in the formal terms of the plan (or a
constructive obligation) at the end of the reporting period. Such changes will result in:
(a) past service cost, to the extent that they change benefits for service before the change; and
(b) current service cost for periods after the change, to the extent that they change benefits for service after the
change.
90 Estimates of future salary increases take account of inflation, seniority, promotion and other relevant factors, such as
supply and demand in the employment market.
91 Some defined benefit plans limit the contributions that an entity is required to pay. The ultimate cost of the benefits
takes account of the effect of a limit on contributions. The effect of a limit on contributions is determined over the
shorter of:
(a) the estimated life of the entity; and
(b) the estimated life of the plan.
92 Some defined benefit plans require employees or third parties to contribute to the cost of the plan. Contributions by
employees reduce the cost of the benefits to the entity. An entity considers whether third-party contributions reduce
the cost of the benefits to the entity, or are a reimbursement right as described in paragraph 116. Contributions by
employees or third parties are either set out in the formal terms of the plan (or arise from a constructive obligation that
goes beyond those terms), or are discretionary. Discretionary contributions by employees or third parties reduce
service cost upon payment of these contributions to the plan.
93 Contributions from employees or third parties set out in the formal terms of the plan either reduce service cost (if they
are linked to service), or reduce remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) (eg: if the contributions are
required to reduce a deficit arising from losses on plan assets or actuarial losses). Contributions from employees or
third parties in respect of service are attributed to periods of service as a negative benefit in accordance with paragraph
70 (ie the net benefit is attributed in accordance with that paragraph).

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
32A
94 Changes in employee or third-party contributions in respect of service result in:
(a) current and past service cost (if changes in employee contributions are not set out in the formal terms of a
plan and do not arise from a constructive obligation); or
(b) actuarial gains and losses (if changes in employee contributions are set out in the formal terms of a plan, or
arise from a constructive obligation).
95 Some post-employment benefits are linked to variables such as the level of state retirement benefits or state medical
care. The measurement of such benefits reflects the best estimate of such variables, based on historical data and other
reliable evidence.
96 Assumptions about medical costs shall take account of estimated future changes in the cost of medical services,
resulting from both inflation and specific changes in medical costs.
97 Measurement of post-employment medical benefits requires assumptions about the level and frequency of future
claims and the cost of meeting those claims. An entity estimates future medical costs on the basis of historical data
about the entity’s own experience, supplemented where necessary by historical data from other entities, insurance
companies, medical providers or other sources. Estimates of future medical costs consider the effect of technological
advances, changes in health care utilisation or delivery patterns and changes in the health status of plan participants.
98 The level and frequency of claims is particularly sensitive to the age, health status and sex of employees (and their
dependants) and may be sensitive to other factors such as geographical location. Therefore, historical data are
adjusted to the extent that the demographic mix of the population differs from that of the population used as a basis for
the data. They are also adjusted where there is reliable evidence that historical trends will not continue.
Past service cost and gains and losses on settlement
99 Before determining past service cost, or a gain or loss on settlement, an entity shall remeasure the net defined
benefit liability (asset) using the current fair value of plan assets and current actuarial assumptions (including
current market interest rates and other current market prices) reflecting the benefits offered under the plan before
the plan amendment, curtailment or settlement.
100 An entity need not distinguish between past service cost resulting from a plan amendment, past service cost resulting
from a curtailment and a gain or loss on settlement if these transactions occur together. In some cases, a plan amendment
occurs before a settlement, such as when an entity changes the benefits under the plan and settles the amended
benefits later. In those cases an entity recognises past service cost before any gain or loss on settlement.
101 A settlement occurs together with a plan amendment and curtailment if a plan is terminated with the result that the
obligation is settled and the plan ceases to exist. However, the termination of a plan is not a settlement if the plan is
replaced by a new plan that offers benefits that are, in substance, the same.
Past service cost
102 Past service cost is the change in the present value of the defined benefit obligation resulting from a plan amendment
or curtailment.
103 An entity shall recognise past service cost as an expense at the earlier of the following dates:–
(a) when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs; and
(b) when the entity recognises related restructuring costs (see LKAS 37) or termination benefits
(see paragraph 165).

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
33A
104 A plan amendment occurs when an entity introduces, or withdraws a defined benefit plan or changes the benefits
payable under an existing defined benefit plan.
105 A curtailment occurs when an entity significantly reduces the number of employees covered by a plan. A curtailment
may arise from an isolated event, such as the closing of a plant, discontinuance of an operation or termination or
suspension of a plan.
106 Past service cost may be either positive (when benefits are introduced or changed so that the present value of the
defined benefit obligation increases) or negative (when benefits are withdrawn or changed so that the present value of
the defined benefit obligation decreases).
107 Where an entity reduces benefits payable under an existing defined benefit plan and, at the same time, increases other
benefits payable under the plan for the same employees, the entity treats the change as a single net change.
108 Past service cost excludes:
(a) the effect of differences between actual and previously assumed salary increases on the obligation to pay
benefits for service in prior years (there is no past service cost because actuarial assumptions allow for
projected salaries);
(b) underestimates and overestimates of discretionary pension increases when an entity has a constructive
obligation to grant such increases (there is no past service cost because actuarial assumptions allow for
such increases);
(c) estimates of benefit improvements that result from actuarial gains or from the return on plan assets that have
been recognised in the financial statements if the entity is obliged, by either the formal terms of a plan (or a
constructive obligation that goes beyond those terms) or legislation, to use any surplus in the plan for the
benefit of plan participants, even if the benefit increase has not yet been formally awarded (there is no past
service cost because the resulting increase in the obligation is an actuarial loss, see paragraph 88); and
(d) the increase in vested benefits (ie benefits that are not conditional on future employment, see paragraph 72)
when, in the absence of new or improved benefits, employees complete vesting requirements (there is no
past service cost because the entity recognised the estimated cost of benefits as current service cost as the
service was rendered).
Gains and losses on settlement
109 The gain or loss on a settlement is the difference between:
(a) the present value of the defined benefit obligation being settled, as determined on the date of settlement;
and
(b) the settlement price, including any plan assets transferred and any payments made directly by the entity in
connection with the settlement.
110 An entity shall recognise a gain or loss on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs.
111 A settlement occurs when an entity enters into a transaction that eliminates all further legal or constructive obligation
for part or all of the benefits provided under a defined benefit plan (other than a payment of benefits to, or on behalf of,
employees in accordance with the terms of the plan and included in the actuarial assumptions). For example, a one-off
transfer of significant employer obligations under the plan to an insurance company through the purchase of an
insurance policy is a settlement; a lump sum cash payment, under the terms of the plan, to plan participants in exchange
for their rights to receive specified post-employment benefits is not.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
34A
112 In some cases, an entity acquires an insurance policy to fund some or all of the employee benefits relating to employee
service in the current and prior periods. The acquisition of such a policy is not a settlement if the entity retains a legal
or constructive obligation (see paragraph 46) to pay further amounts if the insurer does not pay the employee benefits
specified in the insurance policy. Paragraphs 116–119 deal with the recognition and measurement of reimbursement
rights under insurance policies that are not plan assets.
        Recognition and measurement: plan assets
          Fair value of plan assets
113 The fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the present value of the defined benefit obligation in determining the
deficit or surplus. When no market price is available, the fair value of plan assets is estimated, for example, by
discounting expected future cash flows using a discount rate that reflects both the risk associated with the plan assets
and the maturity or expected disposal date of those assets (or, if they have no maturity, the expected period until the
settlement of the related obligation).
114 Plan assets exclude unpaid contributions due from the reporting entity to the fund, as well as any non-transferable
financial instruments issued by the entity and held by the fund. Plan assets are reduced by any liabilities of the fund
that do not relate to employee benefits, for example, trade and other payables and liabilities resulting from derivative
financial instruments.
115 Where plan assets include qualifying insurance policies that exactly match the amount and timing of some or all of the
benefits payable under the plan, the fair value of those insurance policies is deemed to be the present value of the
related obligations (subject to any reduction required if the amounts receivable under the insurance policies are not
recoverable in full).
        Reimbursements
116 When, and only when, it is virtually certain that another party will reimburse some or all of the expenditure required
to settle a defined benefit obligation, an entity shall:
(a) recognise its right to reimbursement as a separate asset. The entity shall measure the asset at fair value.
(b) disaggregate and recognise changes in the fair value of its right to reimbursement in the same way as for
changes in the fair value of plan assets (see paragraphs 124 and 125). The components of defined benefit
cost recognised in accordance with paragraph 120 may be recognised net of amounts relating to changes
in the carrying amount of the right to reimbursement.
117 Sometimes, an entity is able to look to another party, such as an insurer, to pay part or all of the expenditure required to
settle a defined benefit obligation. Qualifying insurance policies, as defined in paragraph 8, are plan assets. An entity
accounts for qualifying insurance policies in the same way as for all other plan assets and paragraph 116 is not relevant
(see paragraphs 46–49 and 115).
118 When an insurance policy held by an entity is not a qualifying insurance policy, that insurance policy is not a plan
asset. Paragraph 116 is relevant to such cases: the entity recognises its right to reimbursement under the insurance
policy as a separate asset, rather than as a deduction in determining the defined benefit deficit or surplus. Paragraph
140(b) requires the entity to disclose a brief description of the link between the reimbursement right and the related
obligation.
119 If the right to reimbursement arises under an insurance policy that exactly matches the amount and timing of some or
all of the benefits payable under a defined benefit plan, the fair value of the reimbursement right is deemed to be the
present value of the related obligation (subject to any reduction required if the reimbursement is not recoverable in
full).

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
35A
        Components of defined benefit cost
120 An entity shall recognise the components of defined benefit cost, except to the extent that another SLFRS requires or
permits their inclusion in the cost of an asset, as follows:
(a) service cost (see paragraphs 66–112) in profit or loss;
(b) net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 123–126) in profit or loss; and
(c) remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 127–130) in other comprehensive
income.
121 Other SLFRSs require the inclusion of some employee benefit costs within the cost of assets, such as inventories and
property, plant and equipment (see LKAS 2 and LKAS 16). Any post-employment benefit costs included in the cost of
such assets include the appropriate proportion of the components listed in paragraph 120.
122 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) recognised in other comprehensive income shall not be
reclassified to profit or loss in a subsequent period. However, the entity may transfer those amounts recognised in
other comprehensive income within equity.
        Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset)
123 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) shall be determined by multiplying the net defined benefit
liability (asset) by the discount rate specified in paragraph 83, both as determined at the start of the annual reporting
period, taking account of any changes in the net defined benefit liability (asset) during the period as a result of
contribution and benefit payments.
124 Net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) can be viewed as comprising interest income on plan assets,
interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest on the effect of the asset ceiling mentioned in paragraph 64.
125 Interest income on plan assets is a component of the return on plan assets, and is determined by multiplying the fair
value of the plan assets by the discount rate specified in paragraph 83, both as determined at the start of the annual
reporting period, taking account of any changes in the plan assets held during the period as a result of contributions
and benefit payments. The difference between the interest income on plan assets and the return on plan assets is
included in the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (asset).
126 Interest on the effect of the asset ceiling is part of the total change in the effect of the asset ceiling, and is determine d
by multiplying the effect of the asset ceiling by the discount rate specified in paragraph 83, both as determined at the
start of the annual reporting period. The difference between that amount and the total change in the effect of the asset
ceiling is included in the remeasurement of the net defined benefit liability (asset).
      Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset)
127 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) comprise:
(a) actuarial gains and losses (see paragraphs 128 and 129);
(b) the return on plan assets (see paragraph 130), excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined
benefit liability (asset) (see paragraph 125) ; and
(c) any change in the effect of the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in net interest on the net defined
benefit liability (asset) (see paragraph 126).

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
36A
128 Actuarial gains and losses result from increases or decreases in the present value of the defined benefit obligation
because of changes in actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments. Causes of actuarial gains and losses include,
for example:
(a) unexpectedly high or low rates of employee turnover, early retirement or mortality or of increases in salaries,
benefits (if the formal or constructive terms of a plan provide for inflationary benefit increases) or medical
costs;
(b) the effect of changes to assumptions concerning benefit payment options;
(c) the effect of changes in estimates of future employee turnover, early retirement or mortality or of increases
in salaries, benefits (if the formal or constructive terms of a plan provide for inflationary benefit increases) or
medical costs; and
(d) the effect of changes in the discount rate.
129 Actuarial gains and losses do not include changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation because of the
introduction, amendment, curtailment or settlement of the defined benefit plan, or changes to the benefits payable
under the defined benefit plan. Such changes result in past service cost or gains or losses on settlement.
130 In determining the return on plan assets, an entity deducts the costs of managing the plan assets and any tax payable
by the plan itself, other than tax included in the actuarial assumptions used to measure the defined benefit obligation
(paragraph 76). Other administration costs are not deducted from the return on plan assets.
Presentation
Offset
131 An entity shall offset an asset relating to one plan against a liability relating to another plan when, and only when, the
entity:
(a) has a legally enforceable right to use a surplus in one plan to settle obligations under the other plan; and
(b) intends either to settle the obligations on a net basis, or to realise the surplus in one plan and settle its
obligation under the other plan simultaneously.
132 The offsetting criteria are similar to those established for financial instruments in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation.
       Current/non-current distinction
133 Some entities distinguish current assets and liabilities from non-current assets and liabilities. This Standard does not
specify whether an entity should distinguish current and non-current portions of assets and liabilities arising from
post-employment benefits.
       Components of defined benefit cost
134 Paragraph 120 requires an entity to recognise service cost and net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) in
profit or loss. This Standard does not specify how an entity should present service cost and net interest on the net
defined benefit liability (asset). An entity presents those components in accordance with LKAS 1.
       Disclosure
135 An entity shall disclose information that:

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
37A
(a) explains the characteristics of its defined benefit plans and risks associated with them (see paragraph 139);
(b) identifies and explains the amounts in its financial statements arising from its defined benefit plans (see para-
graphs 140–144); and
(c) describes how its defined benefit plans may affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of the entity’s future cash
flows (see paragraphs 145–147).
136 To meet the objectives in paragraph 135, an entity shall consider all the following:
(a) the level of detail necessary to satisfy the disclosure requirements;
(b) how much emphasis to place on each of the various requirements;
(c) how much aggregation or disaggregation to undertake; and
(d) whether users of financial statements need additional information to evaluate the quantitative information dis-
closed.
137 If the disclosures provided in accordance with the requirements in this Standard and other SLFRSs are insufficient to
meet the objectives in paragraph 135, an entity shall disclose additional information necessary to meet those objectives.
For example, an entity may present an analysis of the present value of the defined benefit obligation that distinguishes
the nature, characteristics and risks of the obligation. Such a disclosure could distinguish:
(a) between amounts owing to active members, deferred members, and pensioners.
(b) between vested benefits and accrued but not vested benefits.
(c) between conditional benefits, amounts attributable to future salary increases and other benefits.
138 An entity shall assess whether all or some disclosures should be disaggregated to distinguish plans or groups of plans
with materially different risks. For example, an entity may disaggregate disclosure about plans showing one or more of
the following features:
(a) different geographical locations.
(b) different characteristics such as flat salary pension plans, final salary pension plans or post-employment medical
plans.
(c) different regulatory environments.
(d) different reporting segments.
(e) different funding arrangements (eg wholly unfunded, wholly or partly funded).
Characteristics of defined benefit plans and risks associated with them
139 An entity shall disclose:
(a) information about the characteristics of its defined benefit plans, including:
(i) the nature of the benefits provided by the plan (eg: final salary defined benefit plan or contribution-based
plan with guarantee).

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
38A
(ii) a description of the regulatory framework in which the plan operates, for example the level of any minimum
funding requirements, and any effect of the regulatory framework on the plan, such as the asset ceiling
(see paragraph 64).
(iii) a description of any other entity’s responsibilities for the governance of the plan, for example responsibilities
of trustees or of board members of the plan.
(b) a description of the risks to which the plan exposes the entity, focused on any unusual, entity-specific or plan-
specific risks, and of any significant concentrations of risk. For. example, if plan assets are invested primarily in one
class of investments, eg property, the plan may expose the entity to a concentration of property market risk.
(c) a description of any plan amendments, curtailments and settlements.
         Explanation of amounts in the financial statements
140 An entity shall provide a reconciliation from the opening balance to the closing balance for each of the following, if
applicable:
(a) the net defined benefit liability (asset), showing separate reconciliations for:
(i) plan assets.
(ii) the present value of the defined benefit obligation.
(iii) the effect of the asset ceiling.
(b) any reimbursement rights. An entity shall also describe the relationship between any reimbursement right and the
related obligation.
141 Each reconciliation listed in paragraph 140 shall show each of the following, if applicable:
(a) current service cost.
(b) interest income or expense.
(c) re measurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset), showing separately:
(i) the return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest in ( b)
(ii) actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions (see paragraph 76(a)).
(iii) actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (see paragraph 76(b)).
(iv) changes in the effect of limiting a net defined benefit asset to the asset ceiling, excluding amounts included in
interest in (b). An entity shall also disclose how it determined the maximum economic benefit available, ie
whether those benefits would be in the form of refunds, reductions in future contributions or a combination
of both.
(d) past service cost and gains and losses arising from settlements. As permitted by paragraph 100, past service cost
and gains and losses arising from settlements need not be distinguished if they occur together.
(e) the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates.
(f) contributions to the plan, showing separately those by the employer and by plan participants.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
39A
(g) payments from the plan, showing separately the amount paid in respect of any settlements.
(h) the effects of business combinations and disposals.
142 An entity shall disaggregate the fair value of the plan assets into classes that distinguish the nature and risks of those
assets, subdividing each class of plan asset into those that have a quoted market price in an active market (as defined
in SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement
2) and those that do not. For example, and considering the level of disclosure
discussed in paragraph 136, an entity could distinguish between:
(a) cash and cash equivalents;
(b) equity instruments (segregated by industry type, company size, geography etc);
(c) debt instruments (segregated by type of issuer, credit quality, geography etc);
(d) real estate (segregated by geography etc);
(e) derivatives (segregated by type of underlying risk in the contract, for example, interest rate contracts, foreign
exchange contracts, equity contracts, credit contracts, longevity swaps etc);
(f) investment funds (segregated by type of fund);
(g) asset-backed securities; and
(h) structured debt.
143 An entity shall disclose the fair value of the entity’s own transferable financial instruments held as plan assets, and the
fair value of plan assets that are property occupied by, or other assets used by, the entity
144 An entity shall disclose the significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined
benefit obligation (see paragraph 76). Such disclosure shall be in absolute terms (eg as an absolute percentage, and not
just as a margin between different percentages and other variables). When an entity provides disclosures in total for
a grouping of plans, it shall provide such disclosures in the form of weighted averages or relatively narrow ranges.
        Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows
145 An entity shall disclose:
(a) a sensitivity analysis for each significant actuarial assumption (as disclosed under paragraph 144) as of the end of
the reporting period, showing how the defined benefit obligation would have been affected by changes in the
relevant actuarial assumption that were reasonably possible at that date.
(b) the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses required by (a) and the limitations of those
methods.
(c) changes from the previous period in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analyses, and
the reasons for such changes.
146 An entity shall disclose a description of any asset-liability matching strategies used by the plan or the entity, including
the use of annuities and other techniques, such as longevity swaps, to manage risk.
147 To provide an indication of the effect of the defined benefit plan on the entity’s future cash flows, an entity shall
disclose:
2 If an entity has not yet applied SLFRS 13, it may refer to paragraph AG71 of LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement,
or paragraph B. 5.4.3 of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments,  if applicable.

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
40A
(a) a description of any funding arrangements and funding policy that affect future contributions.
(b) the expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period.
(c) information about the maturity profile of the defined benefit obligation. This will include the weighted average
duration of the defined benefit obligation and may include other information about the distribution of the timing of
benefit payments, such as a maturity analysis of the benefit payments.
          Multi- employer plans
148 If an entity participates in a multi-employer defined benefit plan, it shall disclose:
(a) a description of the funding arrangements, including the method used to determine the entity’s rate of contributions
and any minimum funding requirements.
(b) a description of the extent to which the entity can be liable to the plan for other entities’ obligations under the terms
and conditions of the multi-employer plan.
(c) a description of any agreed allocation of a deficit or surplus on:
(i) wind-up of the plan; or
(ii) the entity’s withdrawal from the plan.
(d) if the entity accounts for that plan as if it were a defined contribution plan in accordance with paragraph 34, it shall
disclose the following, in addition to the information required by (a)–(c) and instead of the information required by
paragraphs 139–147:
(i) the fact that the plan is a defined benefit plan.
(ii) the reason why sufficient information is not available to enable the entity to account for the plan as a defined
benefit plan.
(iii) the expected contributions to the plan for the next annual reporting period.
(iv) information about any deficit or surplus in the plan that may affect the amount of future contributions,
including the basis used to determine that deficit or surplus and the implications, if any, for the entity.
(v) an indication of the level of participation of the entity in the plan compared with other participating entities.
Examples of measures that might provide such an indication include the entity’s proportion of the total
contributions to the plan or the entity’s proportion of the total number of active members, retired members,
and former members entitled to benefits, if that information is available.
                Defined benefit plans that share risks between entities under common control
149 If an entity participates in a defined benefit plan that shares risks between entities under common control, it shall
disclose:
(a) the contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost or the fact that there is no such
policy.
(b) the policy for determining the contribution to be paid by the entity.
(c) if the entity accounts for an allocation of the net defined benefit cost as noted in paragraph 41, all the informa-
tion about the plan as a whole required by paragraphs 135–147.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
41A
(d) if the entity accounts for the contribution payable for the period as noted in paragraph 41, the information about
the plan as a whole required by paragraphs 135–137, 139, 142–144 and 147(a) and (b).
150 The information required by paragraph 149(c) and (d) can be disclosed by cross-reference to disclosures in another
group entity’s financial statements if :
(a) that group entity’s financial statements separately identify and disclose the information required about the plan;
and
(b) that group entity’s financial statements are available to users of the financial statements on the same terms as the
financial statements of the entity and at the same time as, or earlier than, the financial statements of the entity.
         Disclosure requirements in other SLFRSs
151 Where required by LKAS 24 an entity discloses information about:
(a) related party transactions with post-employment benefit plans; and
(b) post-employment benefits for key management personnel.
152 Where required by LKAS 37 an entity discloses information about contingent liabilities arising from post-employment
benefit obligations.
        Other long- term employee benefits
153 Other long-term employee benefits include items such as the following, if not expected to be settled wholly before
twelve months after the end of the annual reporting period in which the employees render the related service:
(a) long-term paid absences such as long-service or sabbatical leave;
(b) jubilee or other long-service benefits;
(c) long-term disability benefits;
(d) profit-sharing and bonuses; and
(e) deferred remuneration.
154 The measurement of other long-term employee benefits is not usually subject to the same degree of uncertainty as the
measurement of post-employment benefits. For this reason, this Standard requires a simplified method of accounting
for other long-term employee benefits. Unlike the accounting required for post-employment benefits, this method does
not recognize remeasurements in other comprehensive income.
        Recognition and measurement
155 In recognising and measuring the surplus or deficit in an other long-term employee benefit plan, an entity shall apply
paragraphs 56–98 and 113–115. An entity shall apply paragraphs 116–119 in recognising and measuring any
reimbursement right.
156 For other long-term employee benefits, an entity shall recognise the net total of the following amounts in profit or
loss, except to the extent that another SLFRS requires or permits their inclusion in the cost of an asset:
(a) service cost (see paragraphs 66–112);

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
42A
(b) net interest on the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 123–126); and
(c) remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability (asset) (see paragraphs 127–130).
157 One form of other long-term employee benefit is long-term disability benefit. If the level of benefit depends on the
length of service, an obligation arises when the service is rendered. Measurement of that obligation reflects the
probability that payment will be required and the length of time for which payment is expected to be made. If the level
of benefit is the same for any disabled employee regardless of years of service, the expected cost of those benefits is
recognised when an event occurs that causes a long-term disability.
       Disclosure
158 Although this Standard does not require specific disclosures about other long-term employee benefits, other SLFRSs
may require disclosures. For example, LKAS 24 requires disclosures about employee benefits for key management
personnel. LKAS 1 requires disclosure of employee benefits expense.
        Termination benefits
159 This Standard deals with termination benefits separately from other employee benefits because the event that gives
rise to an obligation is the termination of employment rather than employee service. Termination benefits result from
either an entity’s decision to terminate the employment or an employee’s decision to accept an entity’s offer of benefits
in exchange for termination of employment.
160 Termination benefits do not include employee benefits resulting from termination of employment at the request of the
employee without an entity’s offer, or as a result of mandatory retirement requirements, because those benefits are
post-employment benefits. Some entities provide a lower level of benefit for termination of employment at the request
of the employee (in substance, a post-employment benefit) than for termination of employment at the request of the
entity. The difference between the benefit provided for termination of employment at the request of the employee and
a higher benefit provided at the request of the entity is a termination benefit.
161 The form of the employee benefit does not determine whether it is provided in exchange for service or in exchange for
termination of the employee’s employment. Termination benefits are typically lump sum payments, but sometimes also
include:
(a) enhancement of post-employment benefits, either indirectly through an employee benefit plan or directly.
(b) salary until the end of a specified notice period if the employee renders no further service that provides economic
benefits to the entity.
162 Indicators that an employee benefit is provided in exchange for services include the following:
(a) the benefit is conditional on future service being provided (including benefits that increase if further service is
provided).
(b) the benefit is provided in accordance with the terms of an employee benefit plan.
163 Some termination benefits are provided in accordance with the terms of an existing employee benefit plan. For example,
they may be specified by statute, employment contract or union agreement, or may be implied as a result of the
employer’s past practice of providing similar benefits. As another example, if an entity makes an offer of benefits
available for more than a short period, or there is more than a short period between the offer and the expected date of
actual termination, the entity considers whether it has established a new employee benefit plan and hence whether the
benefits offered under that plan are termination benefits or post-employment benefits. Employee benefits provided in
accordance with the terms of an employee benefit plan are termination benefits if they both result from an entity’s
decision to terminate an employee’s employment and are not conditional on future service being provided.

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
43A
164 Some employee benefits are provided regardless of the reason for the employee’s departure. The payment of such
benefits is certain (subject to any vesting or minimum service requirements) but the timing of their payment is uncertain.
Although such benefits are described in some jurisdictions as termination indemnities or termination gratuities, they
are post-employment benefits rather than termination benefits, and an entity accounts for them as post-employment
benefits.
       Recognition
165 An entity shall recognise a liability and expense for termination benefits at the earlier of the following dates:
(a) when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits; and
(b) when the entity recognises costs for a restructuring that is within the scope of LKAS 37 and involves the payment
of termination benefits.
166 For termination benefits payable as a result of an employee’s decision to accept an offer of benefits in exchange for the
termination of employment, the time when an entity can no longer withdraw the offer of termination benefits is the
earlier of :
(a) when the employee accepts the offer ; and
(b) when a restriction ( eg: a legal, regulatory or contractual requirement or other restriction) on the entity’s ability to
withdraw the offer takes effect. This would be when the offer is made, if the restriction existed at the time of the offer.
167 For termination benefits payable as a result of an entity’s decision to terminate an employee’s employment, the entity
can no longer withdraw the offer when the entity has communicated to the affected employees a plan of termination
meeting all of the following criteria:
(a) Actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made.
(b) The plan identifies the number of employees whose employment is to be terminated, their job classifications or
functions and their locations (but the plan need not identify each individual employee) and the expected completion
date.
(c) The plan establishes the termination benefits that employees will receive in sufficient detail that employees can
determine the type and amount of benefits they will receive when their employment is terminated.
168 When an entity recognises termination benefits, the entity may also have to account for a plan amendment or a
curtailment of other employee benefits (see paragraph 103).
        Measurement
169 An entity shall measure termination benefits on initial recognition, and shall measure and recognise subsequent
changes, in accordance with the nature of the employee benefit, provided that if the termination benefits are an
enhancement to post-employment benefits, the entity shall apply the requirements for post-employment benefits.
Otherwise:
(a) if the termination benefits are expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual
reporting period in which the termination benefit is recognised, the entity shall apply the requirements for short-
term employee benefits.
(b) if the termination benefits are not expected to be settled wholly before twelve months after the end of the annual
reporting period, the entity shall apply the requirements for other long-term employee benefits.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
44A
170 Because termination benefits are not provided in exchange for service, paragraphs 70–74 relating to the attribution of
the benefit to periods of service are not relevant.
Example illustrating paragraphs 159–170
Background
As a result of a recent acquisition, an entity plans to close a factory in ten months and, at that time,
terminate the employment of all of the remaining employees at the factory. Because the entity needs the
expertise of the employees at the factory to complete some contracts, it announces a plan of termination as
follows.
Each employee who stays and renders service until the closure of the factory will receive on the termination
date a cash payment of Rs.30,000. Employees leaving before closure of the factory will receive Rs.10,000.
There are 120 employees at the factory. At the time of announcing the plan, the entity expects 20 of them to
leave before closure. Therefore, the total expected cash outflows under the plan are Rs. 3,200,000 (ie. 20 ×
Rs.10,000 + 100 × Rs.30,000). As required by paragraph 160, the entity accounts for benefits provided in
exchange for termination of employment as termination benefits and accounts for benefits provided in
exchange for services as short-term employee benefits.
Termination benefits
The benefit provided in exchange for termination of employment is Rs.10,000. This is the amount that an
entity would have to pay for terminating the employment regardless of whether the employees stay and
render service until closure of the factory or they leave before closure. Even though the employees can
leave before closure, the termination of all employees’ employment is a result of the entity’s decision to
close the factory and terminate their employment (ie. all employees will leave employment when the factory
closes). Therefore the entity recognises a liability of Rs.1,200,000 (ie. 120 × Rs.10,000) for the termination
benefits provided in accordance with the employee benefit plan at the earlier of when the plan of termination
is announced and when the entity recognises the restructuring costs associated with the closure of the
factory.
Benefits provided in exchange for service
The incremental benefits that employees will receive if they provide services for the full ten-month period
are in exchange for services provided over that period.  The entity  accounts for them as short-term
employee benefits because the entity expects to settle them before twelve months after the end of the
annual reporting period. In this example, discounting is not required, so an expense of Rs. 200,000
(ie. Rs. 2,000,000 ÷ 10) is recognised in each month during the service period of ten months, with a
corresponding increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
Disclosure
171 Although this Standard does not require specific disclosures about termination benefits, other SLFRSs may require
disclosures. For example, LKAS 24 requires disclosures about employee benefits for key management personnel.
LKAS 1 requires disclosure of employee benefits expense.
Transition and effective date
172 An entity shall apply this Standard for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2013. Earlier application is
permitted. If an entity applies this Standard for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact.
173 An entity shall apply this Standard retrospectively, in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors, except that:

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
45A
(a) an entity need not adjust the carrying amount of assets outside the scope of this Standard for changes in employee
benefit costs that were included in the carrying amount before the date of initial application. The date of initial
application is the beginning of the earliest prior period presented in the first financial statements in which the entity
adopts this Standard.
(b) in financial statements for periods beginning before 1st January, 2014, an entity need not present comparative
information for the disclosures required by paragraph 145 about the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation.
174 [Deleted]
LKAS 20 - Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 20 Para 10A The benefit of a government loan at a below-market rate of interest is
treated as a government grant. The loan shall be recognised and measured
in accordance with 
LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement. The benefit of the below-market rate of interest shall be
measured as the difference between the initial carrying value of the loan
determined in accordance with 
LKAS 39 and the proceeds received. The
benefit is accounted for in accordance with this Standard. The entity
shall consider the conditions and obligations that have been, or must be,
met when identifying the costs for which the benefit of the loan is intended
to compensate.
LKAS 21-The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 21 Para 3 (a) in accounting for transactions and balances in foreign currencies, except
for those derivative transactions and balances that are within the scope
of LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement;
Para 4 LKAS 39 applies to many foreign currency derivatives and, accordingly,
these are excluded from the scope of this Standard. However, those foreign
currency derivatives that are not within the scope of 
LKAS 39 (eg: some
foreign currency derivatives that are emedded in other contracts) are
within the scope of this Standard. In addition, this Standard applies when
an entity translates amounts relating to derivatives from its functional
currency to its presentation currency.
Para 52 (a) the amount of exchange differences recognised in profit or loss except for
those arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through
profit or loss in accordance with 
LKAS 39; and
LKAS 27-Consolidated & Separate Financial Statements
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 27 Para 35 If a parent loses control of a subsidiary, the parent shall account for all
amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
46A
subsidiary on the same basis as would be required if the parent had
directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or
loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income would be
reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or
liabilities, the parent reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or
loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when it loses control of the
subsidiary. For example, if a subsidiary has 
available-for-sale financial
assets and the parent loses control of the subsidiary, the parent shall
reclassify to profit or loss the gain or loss previously recognised in other
comprehensive income in relation to 
those assets. Similarly, if a revaluation
surplus previously recognized in other comprehensive income would be
transferred directly to retained earnings on the disposal of the asset, the
parent transfers the revaluation surplus directly to retained earnings when
it loses control of the subsidiary.
Para 37 The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the
date when control is lost shall be regarded as the fair value on initial
recognition of a financial asset in accordance with 
LKAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measur ement or, when appropriate, the
cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or jointly
controlled entity.
Para 38 (b) in accordance with 
LKAS 39.
Para 38 The entity shall apply the same accounting for each category of
investments. Investments accounted for at cost shall be accounted for in
accordance with SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and
Discontinued Operations  when they are classified as held for sale (or
included in a disposal group that is classified as held for sale) 
in accordance
with SLFRS 5. The measurement of investments accounted for in
accordance with LKAS 39 is not changed in such circumstances.
Para 40 Investments in jointly controlled entities and associates that are accounted
for in accordance with LKAS 39 in the consolidated financial statements
shall be accounted for in the same way in the investor’s separate financial
statements.
LKAS 28-Investments in Associates
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS  28 Para 1 That upon initial recognition are designated as at fair value through profit
or loss or are classified as held for trading and accounted for in accordance
with LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Such
investments shall be measured at fair value in accordance with LKAS 39,
with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss in the period of the
change. An entity holding such an investment shall make the disclosures
required by paragraph 37(f).
Para 18 An investor shall discontinue the use of the equity method from the date
when it ceases to have significant influence over an associate and shall

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
47A
account for the investment in accordance with LKAS 39 from that date,
provided the associate does not become a subsidiary or a joint venture
as defined in LKAS 31. On the loss of significant influence, the investor
shall measure at fair value any investment the investor retains in the
former associate. The investor shall recognise in profit or loss any
difference between:
Para 19 When an investment ceases to be an associate and is accounted for in
accordance with 
LKAS 39, the fair value of the investment at the date
when it ceases to be an associate shall be regarded as its fair value on
initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with 
LKAS 39.
Para 19A If an investor loses significant influence over an associate, the investor
shall account for all amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
in relation to that associate on the same basis as would be required if the
associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities.
Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive
income by an associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the
disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the investor reclassifies the
gain or loss from equity to profit or loss (as a reclassification adjustment)
when it loses significant influence over the associate. For example, if an
associate has 
available-for-sale financial assets and the investor loses
significant influence over the associate, the investor shall reclassify to
profit or loss the gain or loss previously recognised in other
comprehensive income in relation to 
those assets. If an investor’s
ownership interest in an associate is reduced, but the investment continues
to be an associate, the investor shall reclassify to profit or loss only
a proportionate amount of the gain or loss previously recognised in other
comprehensive income.
LKAS 31-Interests in Joint Ventures
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 31 Para 1 This Standard shall be applied in accounting for interests in joint ventures
and the reporting of joint venture assets, liabilities, income and expenses
in the financial statements of venturers and investors, regardless of the
structures or forms under which the joint venture activities take place.
However, it does not apply to venturers’ interests in jointly controlled
entities held by:
(a) venture capital organisations, or
(b) mutual funds, unit trusts and similar entities including investment-
linked insurance funds.
That 
upon initial recognition are designated as at fair value through
profit or loss or are classified as held for trading and accounted for in
accordance with LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement. Such investments shall be measured at fair value in
accordance with LKAS 39, with changes in fair value recognised in
profit or loss in the period of the change. A venturer holding such an
interest shall make the disclosures required by paragraphs 55 and 56.
Para 45 When an investor ceases to have joint control over an entity, it shall
account for any remaining investment in accordance with LKAS 39 from

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
48A
that date, provided that the former jointly controlled entity does not
become a subsidiary or associate. From the date when a jointly controlled
entity becomes a subsidiary of an investor, the investor shall account for
its interest in accordance with LKAS 27 and SLFRS 3 Business
Combinations (as revised in 2008). From the date when a jointly controlled
entity becomes an associate of an investor, the investor shall account for
its interest in accordance with LKAS 28. On the loss of joint control, the
investor shall measure at fair value any investment the investor retains in
the former jointly controlled entity. The investor shall recognise in profit
or loss any difference between:
Para 45A When an investment ceases to be a jointly controlled entity and is
accounted for in accordance with 
LKAS 39, the fair value of the investment
when it ceases to be a jointly controlled entity shall be regarded as its fair
value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with 
LKAS
39.
Para 45B If an investor loses joint control of an entity, the investor shall account
for all amounts recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to
that entity on the same basis as would be required if the jointly controlled
entity had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore,
if a gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income
would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets
or liabilities, the investor reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit
or loss (as a reclassification adjustment) when the investor loses joint
control of the entity. For example, if a jointly controlled entity has 
available-
for-sale financial assets and the investor loses joint control of the entity,
the investor shall reclassify to profit or loss the gain or loss previously
recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to 
those assets. If
an investor’s ownership interest in a jointly controlled entity is reduced,
but the investment continues to be a jointly controlled entity, the investor
shall reclassify to profit or loss only a proportionate amount of the gain
or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income.
Para 51 An investor in a joint venture that does not have joint control shall
account for that investment in accordance with 
LKAS 39 or, if it has
significant influence in the joint venture, in accordance with LKAS 28.
LKAS 32-Financial Instruments: Presentation
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 32 Para 3 The principles in this Standard complement the principles for recognising
and measuring financial assets and financial liabilities in LKAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement , and for disclosing
information about them in SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Para 4 (a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are
accounted for in accordance with LKAS 27 Consolidated and Separate
Financial Statements, LKAS 28 Investments in Associates  or LKAS 31
Interests in Joint Ventures. However, in some cases, LKAS 27, LKAS 28

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
49A
or LKAS 31 permits an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,
associate or joint venture using LKAS 39; in those cases, entities shall
apply the requirements of this Standard. Entities shall also apply this
Standard to all derivatives linked to interests in subsidiaries, associates
or joint ventures.
Para 4 (d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. However,
this Standard applies to derivatives that are embedded in insurance
contracts if 
LKAS 39 requires the entity to account for them separately.
Moreover, an issuer shall apply this Standard to financial guarantee
contracts if the issuer applies 
LKAS 39 in recognising and measuring the
contracts, but shall apply SLFRS 4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with
paragraph 4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4 in recognising and measuring
them.
Para 4 (e) financial instruments that are within the scope of SLFRS 4 because they
contain a discretionary participation feature. The issuer of these
instruments is exempt from applying to these features paragraphs 15–32
and AG25–AG35 of this Standard regarding the distinction between
financial liabilities and equity instruments. However, these instruments
are subject to all other requirements of this Standard. Furthermore, this
Standard applies to derivatives that are embedded in these instruments
(
see LKAS 39).
Para 12 The following terms are defined in paragraph 9 of LKAS 39 and are used
in this Standard with the meaning specified in LKAS 39.
* amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
* available-for-sale financial assets
* derecognition
* derivative
* effective interest method
*
financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
* financial guarantee contract
* firm commitment
* forecast transaction
* hedge effectiveness
* hedged item
* hedging instrument
*
held-to-maturity investments
* loans and receivables
* regular way purchase or sale transaction costs
Para 23 W ith the exception of the circumstances described in paragraphs 16A
and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D, a contract that contains an obligation
for an entity to purchase its own equity instruments for cash or another
financial asset gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the
redemption amount (for example, for the present value of the forward
repurchase price, option exercise price or other redemption amount). This
is the case even if the contract itself is an equity instrument. One example
is an entity’s obligation under a forward contract to purchase its own
equity instruments for cash. When the financial liability is recognised
initially under 
LKAS 39, its fair value (the present value of the redemption

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
50A
amount) is reclassified from equity. Subsequently, the financial liability is
measured in accordance with LKAS 39. If the contract expires without
delivery, the carrying amount of the financial liability is reclassified to
equity. An entity’s contractual obligation to purchase its own equity
instruments gives rise to a financial liability for the present value of the
redemption amount even if the obligation to purchase is conditional on
the counterparty exercising a right to redeem (eg a written put option that
gives the counterparty the right to sell an entity’s own equity instruments
to the entity for a fixed price).
Para 31
LKAS 39 deals with the measurement of financial assets and financial
liabilities. Equity instruments are instruments that evidence a residual
interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities.
Therefore, when the initial carrying amount of a compound financial
instrument is allocated to its equity and liability components, the equity
component is assigned the residual amount after deducting from the fair
value of the instrument as a whole the amount separately determined for
the liability component. The value of any derivative features (such as a
call option) embedded in the compound financial instrument other than
the equity component (such as an equity conversion option) is included
in the liability component. The sum of the carrying amounts assigned to
the liability and equity components on initial recognition is always equal
to the fair value that would be ascribed to the instrument as a whole.
No gain or loss arises from initially recognising the components of the
instrument separately.
Para 42 In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for
derecognition, the entity shall not offset the transferred asset and the
associated liability (see 
LKAS 39, paragraph 36).
LKAS 36-Impairment of Assets
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 36 Para 2 (e) financial assets that are within the scope of LKAS 39 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement ;
Para 5 This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the scope of
LKAS 39, investment property measured at fair value in accordance with
LKAS 40, or biological assets related to agricultural activity measured at
fair value less costs to sell in accordance with LKAS 41. However, this
Standard applies to assets that are carried at revalued amount (ie fair
value) in accordance with other SLFRSs, such as the revaluation model in
LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment. Identifying whether a revalued
asset may be impaired depends on the basis used to determine fair value:
LKAS 37-Provisions, Contingent Liabilities & Contingent Assets
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 37 Para 2 This Standard does not apply to financial instruments (including
guarantees) that are within the scope of LKAS 39 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
51A
LKAS 39-Financial Instruments: Recognition & Measurement
Standard Existing Replaced /added paragraph
Para
Reference
LKAS 39 Heading Objective
Para 1 The objective of this Standard is to establish principles for recognising
and measuring financial assets, financial liabilities and some contracts to
buy or sell non-financial items. Requirements for presenting information
about financial instruments are in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments:
Presentation. Requirements for disclosing information about financial
instruments are in SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
Para 2 (a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures that are
accounted for under LKAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial
Statements, LKAS 28 Investments in Associates or LKAS 31 Interests in
Joint Ventures. However, entities shall apply this Standard to an interest
in a subsidiary, associate or joint venture that according to LKAS 27,
LKAS 28 or LKAS 31 is accounted for under this Standard. Entities shall
also apply this Standard to derivatives on an interest in a subsidiary,
associate or joint venture unless the derivative meets the definition of an
equity instrument of the entity in LKAS 
32.
Para 2 (b) (i) lease receivables recognised by a lessor are subject to the derecognition
and impairment provisions of this Standard(see paragraphs 15–37, 58, 59,
63–65 and Appendix A paragraphsAG36–AG52 and AG84–AG93);
Para 2 (b) (ii) finance lease payables recognised by a lessee are subject to the
derecognition provisions of this Standard (see paragraphs 39–42 and
Appendix A paragraphs AG57–AG63); and
Para 2 (b) (iii) derivatives that are embedded in leases are subject to the embedded
derivatives provisions of this Standard (see paragraphs 10–13 and
Appendix A paragraphs AG27–AG33).
Para 2 (e) rights and obligations arising under (i) an insurance contract as defined
in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts,  other than an issuer’s rights and
obligations arising under an insurance contract that meets the definition
of a financial guarantee contract in paragraph 9, or (ii) a contract that is
within the scope of SLFRS 4 because it contains a discretionary
participation feature. However, this Standard applies to a derivative that
is embedded in a contract within the scope of SLFRS 4 if the derivative is
not itself a contract within the scope of SLFRS 4 (
see paragraphs 10–13
and Appendix A paragraphs AG27–AG33 of this Standard). Moreover, if
an issuer of financial guarantee contracts has previously asserted explicitly
that it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used
accounting applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may elect to
apply either this Standard or SLFRS 4 to such financial guarantee contracts
(see paragraphs AG4 and AG4A). The issuer may make that election
contract by contract, but the election for each contract is irrevocable.
Para 2 (h) loan commitments other than those loan commitments described in
paragraph 4. An issuer of loan commitments shall apply LKAS 37

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
52A
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets  to loan
commitments that are not within the scope of this Standard. However, all
loan commitments are subject to the derecognition provisions of this
Standard (see paragraphs 15–42and Appendix A paragraphs AG36–AG63).
Para 4 (a) loan commitments that the entity designates as financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss. An entity that has a past practice of selling
the assets resulting from its loan commitments shortly after origination
shall apply this Standard to all its loan commitments in the same class.
Para 4 (c) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate. 
Paragraph
47(d) specifies the subsequent measurement of liabilities arising from
these loan commitments.
Para 8 The terms defined in LKAS 32 are used in this Standard with the meanings
specified in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32. LKAS 32 defines the following
terms:
• financial instrument
• financial asset
• financial liability
• equity instrument 
and provides guidance on applying those definitions.
Para 9 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Definition of a derivative
A derivative is a financial instrument or other contract within the scope
of this Standard (see paragraphs 2–7) with all three of the following
characteristics:
(a) its value changes in response to the change in a specified interest
rate, financial instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange
rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index, or other
variable, provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the
variable is not specific to a party to the contract (sometimes called
the ‘underlying’);
(b) it requires no initial net investment or an initial net investment that is
smaller than would be required for other types of contracts that
would be expected to have a similar response to changes in market
factors; and
(c) it is settled at a future date.
Definitions of four categories of financial instruments
A financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
is a financial asset or financial liability that meets either of the following
conditions.
(a) It is classified as held for trading. A financial asset or financial liability
is classified as held for trading if:
(i) it is acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or
repurchasing it in the near term;
(ii) on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial
instruments that are managed together and for which there is
evidence of a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
53A
(iii) it is a derivative (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee
contract or a designated and effective hedging instrument).
(b) Upon initial recognition it is designated by the entity as at fair value
through profit or loss. An entity may use this designation only when
permitted by paragraph 11A, or when doing so results in more relevant
information, because either
(i) it eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition
inconsistency (sometimes referred to as ‘an accounting mismatch’)
that would otherwise arise from measuring assets or liabilities or
recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases; or
(ii) a group of financial assets, financial liabilities or both is managed
and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance
with a documented risk management or investment strategy, and
information about the group is provided internally on that basis
to the entity’s key management personnel (as defined in LKAS 24
Related Par ty Disclosur es), for example the entity’ s board of
directors and chief executive officer.
In SLFRS 7, paragraphs 9–11 and B4 require the entity to provide
disclosures about financial assets and financial liabilities it has designated
as at fair value through profit or loss, including how it has satisfied these
conditions. For instruments qualifying in accordance with (ii) above, that
disclosure includes a narrative description of how designation as at fair
value through profit or loss is consistent with the entity’ s documented
risk management or investment strategy.
Investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market price
in an active market, and whose fair value cannot be reliably measured
(see paragraph 46(c) and Appendix A paragraphs AG80 and AG81), shall
not be designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
It should be noted that paragraphs 48, 48A, 49 and Appendix A paragraphs
AG69–AG82, which set out requirements for determining a reliable measure
of the fair value of a financial asset or financial liability, apply equally to
all items that are measured at fair value, whether by designation or
otherwise, or whose fair value is disclosed.
Held-to-maturity investments  are non-derivative financial assets with
fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity that an entity has the
positive intention and ability to hold to maturity (see Appendix A
paragraphs AG16–AG25) other than:
(a) those that the entity upon initial recognition designates as at fair
value through  profit or loss;
(b) those that the entity designates as available for sale; and
(c) those that meet the definition of loans and receivables.
An entity shall not classify any financial assets as held to maturity if the
entity has, during the current financial year or during the two preceding

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
54A
financial years, sold or reclassified more than an insignificant amount of
held-to-maturity investments before maturity (more than insignificant in
relation to the total amount of held-to-maturity investments) other than
sales or reclassifications that:
(i) are so close to maturity or the financial asset’ s call date (for
example, less than three months before maturity) that changes in
the market rate of interest would not have a significant effect on
the financial asset’s fair value;
(ii) occur after the entity has collected substantially all of the financial
asset’s  original principal through scheduled payments or
prepayments; or
(iii) are attributable to an isolated event that is beyond the entity’ s
control, is non-recurring and could not have been reasonably
anticipated by the entity .
Loans and receivables  are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or
determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market other
than:
(a) those that the entity intends to sell immediately or in the near term,
which shall be classified as held for trading, and those that the entity
upon initial recognition designates as at fair value through profit or
loss;
(b) those that the entity upon initial recognition designates as available
for sale; or
(c) those for which the holder may not recover substantially all of its
initial investment, other than because of credit deterioration, which
shall be classified as available for sale.
An interest acquired in a pool of assets that are not loans or receivables
(for example, an interest in a mutual fund or a similar fund) is not a loan or
receivable.
Available-for-sale financial assets  are those non-derivative financial
assets that are designated as available for sale or are not classified as (a)
loans and receivables, (b) held-to-maturity investments or (c) financial
assets at fair value through profit or loss.
Definition of a financial guarantee contract
A financial guarantee contract  is a contract that requires the issuer to
make specified payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs
because a specified debtor fails to make payment when due in accordance
with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Definitions relating to recognition and measurement
The amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability is the amount
at which the financial asset or financial liability is measured at initial

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
55A
recognition minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative
amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between
that initial amount and the maturity amount, and minus any reduction
(directly or through the use of an allowance account) for impairment or
uncollectibility.
The effective interest method  is a method of calculating the amortised
cost of a financial asset or a financial liability (or group of financial assets
or financial liabilities) and of allocating the interest income or interest
expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate
that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments or receipts through
the expected life of the financial instrument or, when appropriate, a shorter
period to the net carrying amount of the financial asset or financial liability.
When calculating the effective interest rate, an entity shall estimate cash
flows considering all contractual terms of the financial instrument (for
example, prepayment, call and similar options) but shall not consider
future credit losses. The calculation includes all fees and points paid or
received between parties to the contract that are an integral part of the
effective interest rate (see LKAS 18 Revenue), transaction costs, and all
other premiums or discounts. There is a presumption that the cash flows
and the expected life of a group of similar financial instruments can be
estimated reliably. However, in those rare cases when it is not possible to
estimate reliably the cash flows or the expected life of a financial instrument
(or group of financial instruments), the entity shall use the contractual
cash flows over the full contractual term of the financial instrument (or
group of financial instruments).
Derecognition is the removal of a previously recognised financial asset
or financial liability from an entity’s statement of financial position.
Fair value  is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged, or a
liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length
transaction.*
A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset
under a contract whose terms require delivery of the asset within the time
frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace
concerned.
Transaction costs are incremental costs that are directly attributable to
the acquisition, issue or disposal of a financial asset or financial liability
(see Appendix A paragraph AG13). An incremental cost is one that would
not have been incurred if the entity had not acquired, issued or disposed
of the financial instrument.
Para 9 * Paragraphs 48–49 and AG69–AG82 of Appendix A contain requirements
(foot note) for determining the fair value of a financial asset or financial liability.
Heading Embedded derivatives
Para 10 10 An embedded derivative is a component of a hybrid (combined)
instrument that also includes a non-derivative host contract—with the
effect that some of the cash flows of the combined instrument vary in a
way similar to a stand-alone derivative. An embedded derivative causes

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
56A
some or all of the cash flows that otherwise would be required by the
contract to be modified according to a specified interest rate, financial
instrument price, commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of prices
or rates, credit rating or credit index, or other variable, provided in the
case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a party
to the contract. A derivative that is attached to a financial instrument but
is contractually transferable independently of that instrument, or has a
different counterparty from that instrument, is not an embedded derivative,
but a separate financial instrument.
Para 11 An embedded derivative shall be separated from the host contract and
accounted for as a derivative under this Standard if, and only if:
(a) the economic characteristics and risks of the embedded derivative
are not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of
the host contract (see Appendix A paragraphs AG30 and AG33);
(b) a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative
would meet the definition of a derivative; and
(c) the hybrid (combined) instrument is not measured at fair value with
changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss (ie a derivative that
is embedded in a financial asset or financial liability at fair value
through profit or loss is not separated).
If an embedded derivative is separated, the host contract shall be
accounted for under this Standard if it is a financial instrument, and in
accordance with other appropriate Standards if it is not a financial
instrument. This Standard does not address whether an embedded
derivative shall be presented separately in the statement of financial
position.
Para 11A Notwithstanding paragraph 11, if a contract contains one or more
embedded derivatives, an entity may designate the entire hybrid
(combined) contract as a financial asset or financial liability at fair value
through profit or loss unless:
(a) the embedded derivative(s) does not significantly modify the cash
flows that otherwise would be required by the contract; or
(b) it is clear with little or no analysis when a similar hybrid (combined)
instrument is first considered that separation of the embedded
derivative(s) is prohibited, such as a prepayment option embedded in
a loan that permits the holder to prepay the loan for approximately its
amortised cost.
Para 12 If an entity is required by this Standard to separate an embedded derivative
from its host contract, but is unable to measure the embedded derivative
separately either at acquisition or at the end of a subsequent financial
reporting period, it shall designate the entire hybrid (combined) contract
as at fair value through profit or loss. Similarly , if an entity is unable to
measure separately the embedded derivative that would have to be
separated on reclassification of a hybrid (combined) contract out of the

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
57A
fair value through profit or loss category, that reclassification is prohibited.
In such circumstances the hybrid (combined) contract remains classified
as at fair value through profit or loss in its entirety.
Para 13 If an entity is unable to determine reliably the fair value of an embedded
derivative on the basis of its terms and conditions (for example, because
the embedded derivative is based on an unquoted equity instrument),
the fair value of the embedded derivative is the difference between the
fair value of the hybrid (combined) instrument and the fair value of the
host contract, if those can be determined under this Standard. If the
entity is unable to determine the fair value of the embedded derivative
using this method, paragraph 12 applies and the hybrid (combined)
instrument is designated as at fair value through profit or loss.
Heading Recognition and derecognition
Heading Initial recognition
Para 14 An entity shall recognise a financial asset or a financial liability in its
statement of financial position when, and only when, the entity becomes
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. (See paragraph 38
with respect to regular way purchases of financial assets.)
Heading Derecognition of a financial asset
Para 15 In consolidated financial statements, paragraphs 16–23 and Appendix A
paragraphs AG34–AG52 are applied at a consolidated level. Hence, an
entity first consolidates all subsidiaries in accordance with LKAS 27 and
SIC-12 Consolidation—Special Purpose Entities and then applies
paragraphs 16–23 and Appendix A paragraphs AG34–AG52 to the resulting
group.
Para 16 Before evaluating whether, and to what extent, derecognition is appropriate
under paragraphs 17–23, an entity determines whether those paragraphs
should be applied to a part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of
similar financial assets) or a financial asset (or a group of similar financial
assets) in its entirety, as follows.
(a)  Paragraphs 17–23 are applied to a part of a financial asset (or a part of
a group of similar financial assets) if, and only if, the part being
considered for derecognition meets one of the following three
conditions.
(i) The part comprises only specifically identified cash flows from a
financial asset (or a group of similar financial assets). For example,
when an entity enters into an interest rate strip whereby the
counterparty obtains the right to the interest cash flows, but not
the principal cash flows from a debt instrument, paragraphs 17–23
are applied to the interest cash flows.
(ii) The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of
the cash flows from a financial asset (or a group of similar financial
assets). For example, when an entity enters into an arrangement

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
58A
whereby the counterparty obtains the rights to a 90 per cent share
of all cash flows of a debt instrument, paragraphs 17–23 are applied
to 90 per cent of those cash flows. If there is more than one
counterparty , each counterparty is not required to have a
proportionate share of the cash flows provided that the transferring
entity has a fully proportionate share.
(iii) The part comprises only a fully proportionate (pro rata) share of
specifically identified cash flows from a financial asset (or a group
of similar financial assets). For example, when an entity enters into
an arrangement whereby the counterparty obtains the rights to a
90 per cent share of interest cash flows from a financial asset,
paragraphs 17–23 are applied to 90 per cent of those interest cash
flows. If there is more than one counterparty, each counterparty is
not required to have a proportionate share of the specifically
identified cash flows provided that the transferring entity has a
fully proportionate share.
(b) In all other cases, paragraphs 17–23 are applied to the financial
asset in its entirety (or to the group of similar financial assets in
their entirety). For example, when an entity transfers (i) the rights
to the first or the last 90 per cent of cash collections from a financial
asset (or a group of financial assets), or (ii) the rights to 90 per cent
of the cash flows from a group of receivables, but provides a
guarantee to compensate the buyer for any credit losses up to 8
per cent of the principal amount of the receivables, paragraphs 17–
23 are applied to the financial asset (or a group of similar financial
assets) in its entirety.
In paragraphs 17–26, the term ‘financial asset’ refers to either a
part of a financial asset (or a part of a group of similar financial
assets) as identified in (a) above or, otherwise, a financial asset (or
a group of similar financial assets) in its entirety.
Para 17 An entity shall derecognise a financial asset when, and only when:
(a) the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire;
or
(b) it transfers the financial asset as set out in paragraphs 18 and 19 and
the transfer qualifies for derecognition in accordance with paragraph
20.(See paragraph 38 for regular way sales of financial assets.)
Para 18 An entity transfers a financial asset if, and only if, it either:
(a) transfers the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the
financial asset; or
(b) retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of the financial
asset, but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to
one or more recipients in an arrangement that meets the conditions in
paragraph 19.
Para 19 When an entity retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of
a financial asset (the ‘original asset’), but assumes a contractual obligation

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
59A
to pay those cash flows to one or more entities (the ‘eventual recipients’),
the entity treats the transaction as a transfer of a financial asset if, and
only if, all of the following three conditions are met.
(a) The entity has no obligation to pay amounts to the eventual recipients
unless it collects equivalent amounts from the original asset. Short-
term advances by the entity with the right of full recovery of the
amount lent plus accrued interest at market rates do not violate this
condition.
(b) The entity is prohibited by the terms of the transfer contract from
selling or pledging the original asset other than as security to the
eventual recipients for the obligation to pay them cash flows.
(c) The entity has an obligation to remit any cash flows it collects on
behalf of the eventual recipients without material delay. In addition,
the entity is not entitled to reinvest such cash flows, except for
investments in cash or cash equivalents (as defined in LKAS 7
Statement of Cash Flows ) during the short settlement period from
the collection date to the date of required remittance to the eventual
recipients, and interest earned on such investments is passed to the
eventual recipients.
Para 20 When an entity transfers a financial asset (see paragraph 18), it shall
evaluate the extent to which it retains the risks and rewards of ownership
of the financial asset. In this case:
(a) if the entity transfers substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the financial asset, the entity shall derecognise the
financial asset and recognise separately as assets or liabilities any
rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer .
(b) if the entity retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership
of the financial asset, the entity shall continue to recognise the
financial asset.
(c) if the entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks
and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, the entity shall
determine whether it has retained control of the financial asset. In
this case:
(i) if the entity has not retained control, it shall derecognise the
financial asset and recognise separately as assets or liabilities
any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer .
(ii) if the entity has retained control, it shall continue to recognise the
financial asset to the extent of its continuing involvement in the
financial asset (see paragraph 30).
Para 21 The transfer of risks and rewards (see paragraph 20) is evaluated by
comparing the entity’s exposure, before and after the transfer , with the
variability in the amounts and timing of the net cash flows of the transferred
asset. An entity has retained substantially all the risks and rewards of

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
60A
ownership of a financial asset if its exposure to the variability in the
present value of the future net cash flows from the financial asset does
not change significantly as a result of the transfer (eg because the entity
has sold a financial asset subject to an agreement to buy it back at a fixed
price or the sale price plus a lender ’s return). An entity has transferred
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a financial asset if
its exposure to such variability is no longer significant in relation to the
total variability in the present value of the future net cash flows associated
with the financial asset (eg because the entity has sold a financial asset
subject only to an option to buy it back at its fair value at the time of
repurchase or has transferred a fully proportionate share of the cash
flows from a larger financial asset in an arrangement, such as a loan sub-
participation, that meets the conditions in paragraph 19).
Para 22 Often it will be obvious whether the entity has transferred or retained
substantially all risks and rewards of ownership and there will be no need
to perform any computations. In other cases, it will be necessary to compute
and compare the entity’s exposure to the variability in the present value
of the future net cash flows before and after the transfer. The computation
and comparison is made using as the discount rate an appropriate current
market interest rate. All reasonably possible variability in net cash flows
is considered, with greater weight being given to those outcomes that are
more likely to occur.
Para 23 Whether the entity has retained control (see paragraph 20(c)) of the
transferred asset depends on the transferee’ s ability to sell the asset. If
the transferee has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an
unrelated third party and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and
without needing to impose additional restrictions on the transfer , the
entity has not retained control. In all other cases, the entity has retained
control.
heading Transfers that qualify for derecognition (see paragraph 20(a) and (c)(i))
Para 24 If an entity transfers a financial asset in a transfer that qualifies for
derecognition in its entirety and retains the right to service the financial
asset for a fee, it shall recognise either a servicing asset or a servicing
liability for that servicing contract. If the fee to be received is not expected
to compensate the entity adequately for performing the servicing, a
servicing liability for the servicing obligation shall be recognised at its
fair value. If the fee to be received is expected to be more than adequate
compensation for the servicing, a servicing asset shall be recognised for
the servicing right at an amount determined on the basis of an allocation
of the carrying amount of the larger financial asset in accordance with
paragraph 27.
Para 25 If, as a result of a transfer, a financial asset is derecognised in its entirety
but the transfer results in the entity obtaining a new financial asset or
assuming a new financial liability, or a servicing liability, the entity shall
recognise the new financial asset, financial liability or servicing liability
at fair value.

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
61A
Para 26 On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between:
(a) the carrying amount and
(b) the sum of (i) the consideration received (including any new asset
obtained less any new liability assumed) and (ii) any cumulative gain
or loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income
(see paragraph 55(b))
shall be recognised in profit or loss.
Para 27 If the transferred asset is part of a larger financial asset (eg when an entity
transfers interest cash flows that are part of a debt instrument, see
paragraph 16(a)) and the part transferred qualifies for derecognition in its
entirety, the previous carrying amount of the lar ger financial asset shall
be allocated between the part that continues to be recognised and the
part that is derecognised, based on the relative fair values of those parts
on the date of the transfer . For this purpose, a retained servicing asset
shall be treated as a part that continues to be recognised. The difference
between:
(a) the carrying amount allocated to the part derecognised and
(b) the sum of
(i) the consideration received for the part derecognised (including
any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) and
(ii) any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that had been recognised
in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 55(b))
shall be recognised in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had
been recognised in other comprehensive income is allocated between the
part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised,
based on the relative fair values of those parts.
Para 28 When an entity allocates the previous carrying amount of a larger financial
asset between the part that continues to be recognised and the part that
is derecognised, the fair value of the part that continues to be recognised
needs to be determined. When the entity has a history of selling parts
similar to the part that continues to be recognised or other market
transactions exist for such parts, recent prices of actual transactions
provide the best estimate of its fair value.When there are no price quotes
or recent market transactions to support the fair value of the part that
continues to be recognised, the best estimate of the fair value is the
difference between the fair value of the larger financial asset as a whole
and the consideration received from the transferee for the part that is
derecognised.
Heading Transfers that do not qualify for derecognition
(see paragraph 20(b))
Para 29 If a transfer does not result in derecognition because the entity has
retained substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
62A
transferred asset, the entity shall continue to recognise the transferred
asset in its entirety and shall recognise a financial liability for the
consideration received. In subsequent periods, the entity shall recognise
any income on the transferred asset and any expense incurred on the
financial liability.
Continuing involvement in transferred assets
(see paragraph 20(c)(ii))
Para 30 If an entity neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership of a transferred asset, and retains control of the
transferred asset, the entity continues to recognise the transferred asset
to the extent of its continuing involvement. The extent of the entity’ s
continuing involvement in the transferred asset is the extent to which it is
exposed to changes in the value of the transferred asset. For example:
(a) when the entity’ s continuing involvement takes the form of
guaranteeing the transferred asset, the extent of the entity’ s
continuing involvement is the lower of (i) the amount of the asset
and (ii) the maximum amount of  the consideration received that the
entity could be required to repay (‘the guarantee amount’).
(b) when the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of a written
or purchased option (or both) on the transferred asset, the extent of
the entity’s continuing involvement is the amount of the transferred
asset that the entity may repurchase. However , in case of a written
put option on an asset that is measured at fair value, the extent of the
entity’s continuing involvement is limited to the lower of the fair
value of the transferred asset and the option exercise price (see
paragraph AG48).
(c) when the entity’s continuing involvement takes the form of a cash-
settled option or similar provision on the transferred asset, the extent
of the entity’s continuing involvement is measured in the same way
as that which results from non-cash settled options as set out in (b)
above.
Para 31 When an entity continues to recognise an asset to the extent of its
continuing involvement, the entity also recognises an associated liability.
Despite the other measurement requirements in this Standard, the
transferred asset and the associated liability are measured on a basis that
reflects the rights and obligations that the entity has retained. The
associated liability is measured in such a way that the net carrying amount
of the transferred asset and the associated liability is:
(a) the amortised cost of the rights and obligations retained by the entity,
if the transferred asset is measured at amortised cost; or
(b) equal to the fair value of the rights and obligations retained by the
entity when measured on a stand-alone basis, if the transferred asset
is measured at fair value.
Para 32 The entity shall continue to recognise any income arising on the
transferred asset to the extent of its continuing involvement and shall
recognise any expense incurred on the associated liability .

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
63A
Para 33 For the purpose of subsequent measurement, recognised changes in the
fair value of the transferred asset and the associated liability are accounted
for consistently with each other in accordance with paragraph 55, and
shall not be offset.
Para 34 I f an entity’s continuing involvement is in only a part of a financial asset
(eg. when an entity retains an option to repurchase part of a transferred
asset, or retains a residual interest that does not result in the retention of
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and the entity retains
control), the entity allocates the previous carrying amount of the financial
asset between the part it continues to recognise under continuing
involvement, and the part it no longer recognises on the basis of the
relative fair values of those parts on the date of the transfer . For this
purpose, the requirements of paragraph 28 apply. The difference between:
(a) the carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognised;
and
(b)t he sum of (i) the consideration received for the part no longer
recognised and (ii) any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that had
been recognised in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 55(b))
shall be recognized in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had
been recognised in other comprehensive income is allocated between the
part that continues to be recognised and the part that is no longer
recognized on the basis of the relative fair values of those parts.
Para 35 If the transferred asset is measured at amortised cost, the option in this
Standard to designate a financial liability as at fair value through profit or
loss is not applicable to the associated liability .
heading All transfers
Para 36 If a transferred asset continues to be recognised, the asset and the
associated liability shall not be offset. Similarly, the entity shall not offset
any income arising from the transferred asset with any expense incurred
on the associated liability (see LKAS 32 paragraph 42).
Para 37 If a tr ansferor provides non-cash collateral (such as debt or equity
instruments) to the transferee, the accounting for the collateral by the
transferor and the transferee depends on whether the transferee has the
right to sell or repledge the collateral and on whether the transferor has
defaulted. The transferor and transferee shall account for the collateral as
follows:
(a) If the transferee has the right by contract or custom to sell or repledge
the collateral, then the transferor shall reclassify that asset in its
statement of financial position (eg as a loaned asset, pledged equity
instruments or repurchase receivable) separately from other assets.
(b) If the transferee sells collateral pledged to it, it shall recognise the
proceeds from the sale and a liability measured at fair value for its
obligation to return the collateral.

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
64A
(c) If the transferor defaults under the terms of the contract and is no
longer entitled to redeem the collateral, it shall derecognise the
collateral, and the transferee shall recognise the collateral as its asset
initially measured at fair value or, if it has already sold the collateral,
derecognise its obligation to return the collateral.
(d) Except as provided in (c), the transferor shall continue to carry the
collateral as its asset, and the transferee shall not recognise the
collateral as an asset.
Heading Regular way purchase or sale of a financial asset
Para 38 A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets shall be recognised
and derecognised, as applicable, using trade date accounting or settlement
date accounting (see Appendix A paragraphs AG53–AG56).
heading Derecognition of a financial liability
Para 39 An entity shall remove a financial liability (or a part of a financial liability)
from its statement of financial position when, and only when, it is
extinguished— ie when the obligation specified in the contract is
discharged or cancelled or expires.
Para 40 An exchange between an existing borrower and lender of debt instruments
with substantially different terms shall be accounted for as an
extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a
new financial liability.Similarly, a substantial modification of the terms of
an existing financial liability or a part of it (whether or not attributable to
the financial difficulty of the debtor) shall be accounted for as an
extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a
new financial liability.
Para 41 The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability (or part
of a financial liability) extinguished or transferred to another party and
the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or
liabilities assumed, shall be recognised in profit or loss.
Para 42 If an entity repurchases a part of a financial liability , the entity shall
allocate the previous carrying amount of the financial liability between
the part that continues to be recognised and the part that is derecognised
based on the relative fair values of those parts on the date of the
repurchase. The difference between (a) the carrying amount allocated to
the part derecognised and (b) the consideration paid, including any non-
cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, for the part derecognised
shall be recognised in profit or loss.
heading Measurement
heading Initial measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities
Para 43 When a financial asset or financial liability is recognised initially , an
entity shall measure it at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset
or financial liability not at fair value through profit or loss, transaction

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
65A
costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial
asset or financial liability.
Para 44 When an entity uses settlement date accounting for an asset that is
subsequently measured at cost or amortised cost, the asset is recognised
initially at its fair value on the trade date (see Appendix A paragraphs
AG53–AG56).
Subsequent measurement of financial assets
Para 45 For the purpose of measuring a financial asset after initial recognition,
this Standard classifies financial assets into the following four categories
defined in paragraph 9:
(a) financial assets at fair value through profit or loss;
(b) held-to-maturity investments;
(c) loans and receivables; and
(d) available-for-sale financial assets.
These categories apply to measurement and profit or loss recognition
under this Standard. The entity may use other descriptors for these
categories or other categorisations when presenting information in the
financial statements.The entity shall disclose in the notes the information
required by SLFRS 7.
Para 46 After initial recognition, an entity shall measure financial assets, including
derivatives that are assets, at their fair values, without any deduction for
transaction costs it may incur on sale or other disposal, except for the
following financial assets:
(a) loans and receivables as defined in paragraph 9, which shall be
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method;
(b) held-to-maturity investments as defined in paragraph 9, which shall
be measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method;
and
(c) investments in equity instruments that do not have a quoted market
price in an active market and whose fair value cannot be reliably
measured and derivatives that are linked to and must be settled by
delivery of such unquoted equity instruments, which shall be
measured at cost (see Appendix A paragraphs AG80 and AG81).
Financial assets that are designated as hedged items are subject to
measurement under the hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs
89–102. All financial assets except those measured at fair value through
profit or loss are subject to review for impairment in accordance with
paragraphs 58–70 and Appendix A paragraphs AG84–AG93.
heading Subsequent measurement of financial liabilities
Para 47 After initial recognition, an entity shall measure all financial liabilities at
amortised cost using the effective interest method, except for:

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
66A
(a) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss. Such liabilities,
including derivatives that are liabilities, shall be measured at fair value
except for a derivative liability that is linked to and must be settled by
delivery of an unquoted equity instrument whose fair value cannot
be reliably measured, which shall be measured at cost.
(b) financial liabilities that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does
not qualify for derecognition or when the continuing involvement
approach applies. Paragraphs 29 and 31 apply to the measurement of
such financial liabilities.
(c) financial guarantee contracts as defined in paragraph 9. After initial
recognition, an issuer of such a contract shall (unless paragraph 47(a)
or (b) applies) measure it at the higher of:
(i) the amount determined in accordance with LKAS 37; and
(ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 43) less, when
appropriate, cumulative amortisation recognised in accordance
with LKAS 18.
(d) commitments to provide a loan at a below-market interest rate. After
initial recognition, an issuer of such a commitment shall (unless
paragraph 47(a) applies) measure it at the higher of:
(i) the amount determined in accordance with LKAS 37; and
(ii) the amount initially recognised (see paragraph 43) less, when
appropriate, cumulative amortization recognised in accordance
with LKAS 18.
Financial liabilities that are designated as hedged items are subject to the
hedge accounting requirements in paragraphs 89–102.
heading Fair value measurement considerations
Para 48 In determining the fair value of a financial asset or a financial liability for
the purpose of applying this Standard, LKAS 32 or SLFRS 7, an entity
shall apply paragraphs AG69–AG82 of Appendix A.
Para 48A The best evidence of fair value is quoted prices in an active market. If the
market for a financial instrument is not active, an entity establishes fair
value by using a valuation technique. The objective of using a valuation
technique is to establish what the transaction price would have been on
the measurement date in an arm’s length exchange motivated by normal
business considerations. Valuation techniques include using recent arm’s
length market transactions between knowledgeable, willing parties, if
available, reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is
substantially the same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing
models. If there is a valuation technique commonly used by market
participants to price the instrument and that technique has been
demonstrated to provide reliable estimates of prices obtained in actual
market transactions, the entity uses that technique. The chosen valuation

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
67A
technique makes maximum use of market inputs and relies as little as
possible on entity-specific inputs. It incorporates all factors that market
participants would consider in setting a price and is consistent with
accepted economic methodologies for pricing financial instruments.
Periodically, an entity calibrates the valuation technique and tests it for
validity using prices from any observable current market transactions in
the same instrument (ie without modification or repackaging) or based on
any available observable market data.
Para 49 The fair value of a financial liability with a demand feature (eg. a demand
deposit) is not less than the amount payable on demand, discounted
from the first date that the amount could be required to be paid.
heading Reclassifications
Para 50 An entity:
(a) shall not reclassify a derivative out of the fair value through profit or
loss category while it is held or issued;
(b) shall not reclassify any financial instrument out of the fair value
through profit or loss category if upon initial recognition it was
designated by the entity as at fair value through profit or loss; and
(c) may, if a financial asset is no longer held for the purpose of selling or
repurchasing it in the near term (notwithstanding that the financial
asset may have been acquired or incurred principally for the purpose
of selling or repurchasing it in the near term), reclassify that financial
asset out of the fair value through profit or loss category if the
requirements in paragraph 50B or 50D are met.
An entity shall not reclassify any financial instrument into the fair
value through profit or loss category after initial recognition.
Para 50A The following changes in circumstances are not reclassifications for the
purposes of paragraph 50:
(a) a derivative that was previously a designated and effective hedging
instrument in a cash flow hedge or net investment hedge no longer
qualifies as such;
(b) a derivative becomes a designated and effective hedging instrument
in a cash flow hedge or net investment hedge;
(c) financial assets are reclassified when an insurance company changes
its accounting policies in accordance with paragraph 45 of SLFRS 4.
Para 50B financial asset to which paragraph 50(C) applies (except a financial asset
of the type described in paragraph 50D) may be reclassified out of the fair
value through profit or loss category only in rare circumstances.
Para 50C If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through
profit or loss category in accordance with paragraph 50B, the financial
asset shall be reclassified at its fair value on the date of reclassification.

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
68A
Any gain or loss already recognised in profit or loss shall not be reversed.
The fair value of the financial asset on the date of reclassification becomes
its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
Para 50D A financial asset to which paragraph 50(C) applies that would have met
the definition of loans and receivables (if the financial asset had not been
required to be classified as held for trading at initial recognition) may be
reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category if the
entity has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the
foreseeable future or until maturity.
Para 50E A financial asset classified as available for sale that would have met the
definition of loans and receivables (if it had not been designated as
available for sale) may be reclassified out of the available-for-sale category
to the loans and receivables category if the entity has the intention and
ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity.
Para 50F If an entity reclassifies a financial asset out of the fair value through
profit or loss category in accordance with paragraph 50D or out of the
available-for-sale category in accordance with paragraph 50E, it shall
reclassify the financial asset at its fair value on the date of reclassification.
For a financial asset reclassified in accordance with paragraph 50D, any
gain or loss already recognised in profit or loss shall not be reversed. The
fair value of the financial asset on the date of reclassification becomes its
new cost or amortised cost, as applicable. For a financial asset reclassified
out of the available-for-sale category in accordance with paragraph 50E,
any previous gain or loss on that asset that has been recognised in other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 55(b) shall be
accounted for in accordance with paragraph 54.
Para 51 If, as a result of a change in intention or ability, it is no longer appropriate
to classify an investment as held to maturity , it shall be reclassified as
available for sale and remeasured at fair value, and the difference between
its carrying amount and fair value shall be accounted for in accordance
with paragraph 55(b).
Para 52 Whenever sales or reclassification of more than an insignificant amount
of held-to-maturity investments do not meet any of the conditions in
paragraph 9, any remaining held-to-maturity investments shall be
reclassified as available for sale. On such reclassification, the difference
between their carrying amount and fair value shall be accounted for in
accordance with paragraph 55(b).
Para 53 If a reliable measure becomes available for a financial asset or financial
liability for which such a measure was previously not available, and the
asset or liability is required to be measured at fair value if a reliable measure
is available (see paragraphs 46(c) and 47), the asset or liability shall be
remeasured at fair value, and the difference between its carrying amount
and fair value shall be accounted for in accordance with paragraph 55.
Para 54 If, as a result of a change in intention or ability or in the rare circumstance
that a reliable measure of fair value is no longer available (see paragraphs
46(c) and 47) or because the ‘two preceding financial years’ referred to in

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
69A
paragraph 9 have passed, it becomes appropriate to carry a financial
asset or financial liability at cost or amortised cost rather than at fair
value, the fair value carrying amount of the financial asset or the financial
liability on that date becomes its new cost or amortised cost, as applicable.
Any previous gain or loss on that asset that has been recognised in other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 55(b) shall be
accounted for as follows:
(a) In the case of a financial asset with a fixed maturity, the gain or loss
shall be amortised to profit or loss over the remaining life of the held-
to-maturity investment using the ef fective interest method. Any
difference between the new amortised cost and maturity amount shall
also be amortised over the remaining life of the financial asset using
the effective interest method, similar to the amortisation of a premium
and a discount. If the financial asset is subsequently impaired, any
gain or loss that has been recognised in other comprehensive income
is reclassified from equity to profit or loss in accordance with
paragraph 67.
(b) In the case of a financial asset that does not have a fixed maturity, the
gain or loss shall be recognised in profit or loss when the financial
asset is sold or otherwise disposed of. If the financial asset is
subsequently impaired any previous gain or loss that has been
recognised in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity
to profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 67.
heading Gains and losses
Para 55 A gain or loss arising from a change in the fair value of a financial asset or
financial liability that is not part of a hedging relationship (see paragraphs
89–102), shall be recognised, as follows.
(a) A gain or loss on a financial asset or financial liability classified as at
fair value through profit or loss shall be recognised in profit or loss.
(b) A gain or loss on an available-for-sale financial asset shall be
recognised in other comprehensive income, except for impairment
losses (see paragraphs 67–70) and foreign exchange gains and losses
(see Appendix A paragraph AG83), until the financial asset is
derecognised. At that time the cumulative gain or loss previously
recognised in other comprehensive income shall be reclassified from
equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment (see LKAS 1
Presentation of Financial Statements  (as revised in 2007)).
However,interest calculated using the ef fective interest method
(see paragraph 9) is recognised in profit or loss (see LKAS 18).
Dividends on an available-for-sale equity instrument are recognised
in profit or loss when the entity’ s right to receive payment is
established (see LKAS 18).
Para 56 For financial assets and financial liabilities carried at amortised cost
(see paragraphs 46 and 47), a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss
when the financial asset or financial liability is derecognised or impaired,
and through the amortisation process. However , for financial assets or

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
70A
financial liabilities that are hedged items (see paragraphs 78–84 and
Appendix A paragraphs AG98–AG101) the accounting for the gain or
loss shall follow paragraphs 89–102.
Para 57 If an entity recognises financial assets using settlement date accounting
(see paragraph 38 and Appendix A paragraphs AG53 and AG56), any
change in the fair value of the asset to be received during the period
between the trade date and the settlement date is not recognised for
assets carried at cost or amortised cost (other than impairment losses).
For assets carried at fair value, however, the change in fair value shall be
recognised in profit or loss or in other comprehensive income, as
appropriate under paragraph 55.
heading Impairment and uncollectibility of financial assets
Para 58 An entity shall assess at the end of each reporting period whether there
is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial
assets is impaired. If any such evidence exists, the entity shall apply
paragraph 63 
(for financial assets carried at amortised cost), paragraph 66
(for financial assets carried at cost) or paragraph 67 (for available-for-sale
financial assets) to determine the amount of any impairment loss.
Para 61 In addition to the types of events in paragraph 59, objective evidence of
impairment for an investment in an equity instrument includes information
about significant changes with an adverse effect that have taken place in
the technological, market, economic or legal environment in which the
issuer operates, and indicates that the cost of the investment in the equity
instrument may not be recovered. A significant or prolonged decline in
the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument below its cost is
also objective evidence of impairment.
heading Financial assets carried at amortised cost
Para 63 If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on loans and
receivables or held-to-maturity investments carried at amortised cost has
been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference
between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated
future cash flows (excluding future credit losses that have not been
incurred) discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest
rate (ie. the effective interest rate computed at initial recognition). The
carrying amount of the asset shall be reduced either directly or through
use of an allowance account. The amount of the loss shall be recognized
in profit or loss.
heading
Financial assets carried at cost
Para 66 If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred
on an unquoted equity instrument that is not carried at fair value because
its fair value cannot be reliably measured, or on a derivative asset that is
linked to and must be settled by delivery of such an unquoted equity
instrument, the amount of the impairment loss is measured as the difference
between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the present value
of estimated future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
71A
return for a similar financial asset (see paragraph 46(c) and Appendix A
paragraphs AG80 and AG81). Such impairment losses shall not be reversed.
heading Available-for-sale financial assets
Para 67 When a decline in the fair value of an available-for-sale financial asset
has been recognised in other comprehensive income and there is objective
evidence that the asset is impaired (see paragraph 59), the cumulative
loss that had been recognised in other comprehensive income shall be
reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment
even though the financial asset has not been derecognised.
Para 68 The amount of the cumulative loss that is reclassified from equity to
profit or loss under paragraph 67 shall be the difference between the
acquisition cost (net of any principal repayment and amortisation) and
current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset
previously recognised in profit or loss.
Para 69 Impairment losses recognised in profit or loss for an investment in an
equity instrument classified as available for sale shall not be reversed
through profit or loss.
Para 70 If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as
available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to
an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in profit or
loss, the impairment loss shall be reversed, with the amount of the reversal
recognised in profit or loss.
Para 79 Unlike loans and receivables, a held-to-maturity investment cannot be a
hedged item with respect to interest-rate risk or prepayment risk because
designation of an investment as held to maturity requires an intention to
hold the investment until maturity without regard to changes in the fair
value or cash flows of such an investment attributable to changes in
interest rates. However , a held-to-maturity investment can be a hedged
item with respect to risks from changes in foreign currency exchange
rates and credit risk.
Para 88 The effectiveness of the hedge can be reliably measured, ie the fair value
(d) or cash flows of the hedged item that are attributable to the hedged risk
and the fair value of the hedging instrument can be reliably measured
(see paragraphs 46 and 47 and Appendix A paragraphs AG80 and AG81
for guidance on determining fair value).
Para 89 the gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk shall
(b) adjust the carrying amount of the hedged item and be recognised in profit
or loss. This applies if the hedged item is otherwise measured at cost.
Recognition of the gain or loss attributable to the hedged risk in profit or
loss applies if the hedged item is an available-for-sale financial asset.
Para 90 If only particular risks attributable to a hedged item are hedged, recognized
changes in the fair value of the hedged item unrelated to the hedged risk
are recognised as set out in paragraph 55.

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'26
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.02.2014
72A
Para 96 if an entity’s documented risk management strategy for a particular hedging
(c) relationship excludes from the assessment of hedge effectiveness a specific
component of the gain or loss or related cash flows on the hedging
instrument (see paragraphs 74, 75 and 88(a)), that excluded component of
gain or loss is recognised in accordance with paragraph 
55.
03-279
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.