

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2412$09 - 2024 fkdjeïn¾ ui 26 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2024.11.26
No. 2412/09  -  TUESday,   NovEmbEr   26 , 2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Central Bank of Sri Lanka Notices
1a- G 43118 - 24 (11/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CENTRAL  BANk Of SRI LANkA ACT, NO. 16 Of 2023
rUlES  made under Section 105 read with Section 106(1) and Section 31(2) of the Central bank of Sri lanka act, No. 16 
of 2023.
    dr. P. Nandalal Weerasinghe,
   Chairman of the monetary Policy board and 
   Governor of the Central bank of Sri lanka.
   
Central bank of Sri lanka,
Colombo,
26th  November, 2024.
Rules made by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka
 1. These rules shall be cited as the “ rules on open market operations of the Central bank of Sri lanka, No. 1 of 
2024”.
 2. The monetary Policy board of the Central bank, acting in terms of the provisions of Section 31(2) of the Central 
Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023, hereby introduces operational changes to Open Market Operations effective 
27 November 2024, with the introduction of the Overnight Policy Rate (OPR) for the purpose of signaling and 
operationalising the monetary policy stance of the Central bank.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'11'26
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2024
2a
 3. The overnight Policy rate may be periodically reviewed and adjusted by the monetary Policy board as and when 
necessary, to officially indicate and communicate the monetary policy stance of the Central Bank.
 4. The Standing deposit Facility rate (SdFr) and the Standing lending Facility rate (SlFr) are linked to the 
overnight Policy rate, with pre-determined margins as determined by the monetary Policy board.
 5. Changes to the overnight Policy rate and/or the pre-determined margins will be announced to the market and public 
by the Central bank.
 6. accordingly, the following rules shall apply to Participatory Institutions in respect of conducting open market 
operations by the Central bank:
 6.1. Every Participatory Institution that submits bids for repo auctions and reverse repo auctions under open 
market operations shall comply with these rules.
 6.1.1. any bid submitted by a Participatory Institution under a short-term repo auction, at or above the 
overnight Policy rate, will be rejected.
 6.1.2. any bid submitted by a Participatory Institution under a short-term reverse repo auction, at or below the 
overnight Policy rate, will be rejected.
 7. In the event of any inconsistency between these rules and the existing operating Instructions in relation to the open 
market operations, these rules shall prevail.
For the purpose of these rules:
 (i) “Central bank” shall mean the Central bank of Sri lanka established under the Central bank of Sri lanka act, No. 
16 of 2023.
 (ii) “monetary Policy board” shall mean the decision-making body established under the Central bank of Sri lanka 
act, No. 16 of 2023.
 (iii) “Overnight Policy Rate” shall mean the policy interest rate of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to officially indicate 
and communicate its monetary policy stance.
 (iv) “Standing deposit Facility rate” shall mean the rate at which Participatory Institutions and Standalone Primary 
dealers (the companies appointed as Primary dealers except licensed  Commercial banks) can deposit their excess 
funds with the Central bank on an overnight basis under the Standing Facility.
 (v) “Standing lending Facility rate” shall mean the rate at which Participatory Institutions and Standalone Primary 
dealers (the companies appointed as Primary dealers except licensed Commercial banks) can borrow funds from 
the Central bank on an overnight basis under the Standing Facility.
 (vi) “Participatory Institutions” shall mean the Institutions that are eligible for short-term auctions under open market 
operations, which includes all licensed Commercial banks, and the Employees’ Provident Fund.
 (vii) “Short-term repo auction” shall mean the short-term auctions in the form of repurchase transactions (to absorb 
liquidity). The tenure of the short-term auctions shall be overnight to 7 days (one week).
 (viii)   “Short-term reverse repo auction” shall mean the short-term auctions in the form of reverse repurchase                 
transactions (to inject liquidity). The tenure of the short-term auctions shall be overnight to 7 days (one week).
EoG 11 - 0150
PrINTEd a T THE dEP ar TmENT oF GovErNmENT PrINTING,  SrI laNKa.