

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2362$23 - 2023 foieïn¾ ui 12 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2023.12.12
No. 2362/23  -  tuesday,   deceMBeR  12,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
CIvIL  A vIATION  ACT, No. 14 Of 2010
ReGuLatION made by the Minister in charge of the subject of civil aviation by virtue of the powers vested in him under 
section 117(2)(r) of the civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010.
 
 Nimal Siripala De Silv a,
 Minister of Ports, shipping and aviation.
colombo,
11th december, 2023.
Regulations
Pursuant to section 117 (2)(r) of the civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010, the Minister in charge of the subject of  civil 
Aviation has made the following regulations relating to the charges to be paid by aircraft flying over the Colombo Flight 
Information Region for the use of air navigation facilities and services provided by sri Lanka.
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6567 - 406 (12/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
 1. These Regulations may be cited as En-route Navigation Facility Charges Regulations No. 02 of 
2023.
citation of the 
regulations and 
effective date

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2023
2a
 2. the charges payable, in accordance with these regulations are aimed at the recovery of the costs 
incurred for the establishment, maintenance and operation of facilities and services provided by sri 
Lanka for the provision of aeronautical facilities and services to aircraft flying over Colombo Flight 
Information Region, which includes provision of air route and airways facilities, meteorological 
services, air traffic control services, safety regulatory services and search and rescue services 
maintained, operated or arranged by the statutory service Provider appointed for provision of 
aeronautical services to aircraft and for the conduct of safety oversight functions by the authority 
to ensure that such facilities and services conform to the applicable international standards.
 3. Every operator of an aircraft operating a flight through the Colombo Flight Information Region 
without landing at any aerodromes in sri Lanka shall, unless othrwise exempt by these regulations, 
pay for the air navigation facilities and services provided to the flight and safety oversight functions 
involved, an En-route Navigation Facility Charge in accordance with the Schedule hereto.
 4. En-route Navigation Facility Charge shall be calculated based on a combination of Maximum Take 
off Weight of the aircraft and distance flown by the aircraft within Colombo Flight Information 
Region, subject to the criteria given in the schedule hereto.
 5. (a). unless otherwise agreed between the operator and the director General, every aircraft 
overflying the Colombo Flight Information Region shall pay in United States Dollars the applicable 
charges to the statutory service Provider who has been appointed for the provision of aeronautical 
services specified under Section 31(e), (f), (g) and (h) of the Act, within 30 days of the date of 
invoice to the operator.
  (b). In case of default or delayed payment, an En-route Navigation Facility Charge payable under 
these Regulations may be recovered by the statutory service provider, as a debt together with an 
interest of 2% per month of the delayed payment.
 6. a  charge under these regulations is not payable in respect of the following aircraft :
 (a) Aircraft that entered the Colombo Flight Information Region impromptu as a result of 
mechanical failure, meteorological conditions or other reasons affecting the safety of flight;
 (b) Aircraft operated for the purpose of humanitarian relief;
 (c) Aircraft designated as a diplomatic flight; or
 (d) aircraft exempted by director General for reasons to be recorded.
 7. (a)  the statutory service Provider appointed for the Provision of aeronautical services shall 
collect all En-route Navigation Facility Charges under these regulations and maintain proper 
records in respect of the following :
 1. Name of the operator and contact details including business address;
 2. Type of the aircraft and its MTOW;
 3. Date of flight together with time and point of entry and time and point of exist from 
Colombo Flight Information Region;
 4. Route(s) and distance(s) as per Flight Plan;
 5. Purpose of flight;
 6. Amount of charges levied; and,
 7. any other pertinent information.
 (b) the statutory service Provider shall furnish monthly records of all the information 
mentioned in paragraph (a) to the authority and secretary to the Ministry in charge of the 
subject of civil aviation.
Objective
applicability
Basis for 
calculation 
of    en-route 
Navigation 
Facility Charges
Mechanism of 
Payment of  
en-route 
Navigation 
Facility Chages
exemption 
from en-route 
Navigation 
Facility Chages
Revenue 
collection, 
Record Keeping 
and accounting

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2023
3a
 (c) the statutory service Provider shall remit every two Weeks to the General treasury forty 
percent (40%) of the revenue collected through the En-route Navigation Facility Charges.
 8. “air Navigation services” means facilities or services provided by sri Lanka for safe, secure, 
efficient, regular, economically sustainable and environmentally responsive operation of aircraft 
within the airspace of Colombo Flight Information Region including :–
 (a) visual and non-visual aids along air routes and airways;
 (b) communication services;
 (c) aeronautical meteorological services;
 (d) air traffic control services and facilities;
 (e) alerting services;
 (f) air traffic advisory services;
 (g) flight information services;
 (h) aeronautical search and rescue service; and
 (i) safety oversight functions conducted by authority.
“authority” means civil aviation authority of sri Lanka established under civil aviation 
authority of sri Lanka act, No. 34 of 2002.
“Colombo Flight Information Region” means Sri Lanka airspace and the adjacent oceanic 
airspace that has been delegated to sri Lanka by Internationl civil aviation Organization 
under the Regional Air Navigation Plan of Asia and Pacific Regions for the purpose of 
provision of air traffic services navigating within that airspace.
“director General” means director General of civil aviation appointed under the civil aviation  
authority of sri Lanka act, No. 34 of 2002.
“statutory service Provider” means the statutory service Provider appointed under section 
6(3)(a) of the civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010.
 9. With these Regulations coming into effect, the En-route Navigation Facility Charges Regulations 
of 1981 published in the Government Gazette No. 147/12 dated 3rd July 1981 and the en-route 
Navigation Facility Charges Regulations No. 01 of 2023 published in the Government Gazette  
No. 2319/64 dated 16th Fubruary 2023 is hereby rescinded without prejudice to anything 
previously done thereunder.  and the Regulation 4 of Gazette No. 1282/29 dated 04th april 2003 
shall be amended.
 10. En-route Navigation Facility Charges due under the repealed Regulations stated at paragraph 09 
and remaining unpaid at the date of coming into operation of these Regulations shall remain due 
and be payable and are a debt owing to the state.
scheduLe
CalCulatioN  of  eN - route  N a vigatioN  f aCility  ChargeS
 (a) Maximum Take-Off Weight (MTOW) of an aircraft is the Maximum Take-Off Weight of the aircraft as specified 
in the Certificate of Airworthiness of the aircraft or in the absence of such as may be determined by the Director 
General and published in sri Lanka aeronautical Information Publication and it shall be used in Metric tons as the 
“Weight Factor” for the calculation of En-route Navigation Facility Charges.
 (b) Distance flown is the distance flown in Colombo Flight Information Region (FIR) of the route declared by the air 
operator in the flight plan filed with the Statutory Service Provider and it shall be used in Nautical miles as the 
“Chargeable Distance” for the calculation of En-route Navigation Facility Charges.
Definitions
Repeal Provision
saving and 
transitional 
Provision

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'12'12
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.12.2023
4a
 (c) The total amount of En-route Navigation Facility Charges (ENFC) payable in respect of an aircraft shall be 
calculated as follows subject to paragraph (d) and (e).
 
 
 Where;
 1. Chargeable Distance is the distance flown in Colombo Flight Information Region (FIR) in Nautical Miles as 
per the Flight Plan filed by the aircraft operator.
 2. Weight Factor is the Maximum Take off Weight in Metric Tons (or MTOW) as specified in the Certificate of 
airworthiness of the aircraft or in the absence of such, as may be determined by the director General and 
published in sri Lanka aeronautical Information Publication.
 (d) For any flight operating more than 600 nautical miles within the Colombo Flight Information Region, the 
“chargeable distance” limit must be a maximum of 600 nautical miles.
 (e) For the calculation of En-route Navigation Facility Charges for any aircraft flown a distance of 300 nm or less 
within Colombo FIR, the Chargeable Distance shall be 300 nautical miles.
eOG 12 - 0164
ENFC (in USD) = 
3
(chargeable distance  + Mt OW)
priNteD at the DepartmeNt  of goverNmeNt  priNtiNg,  Sri laNKa.