

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 9.50  Postage  :  Rs. 4.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 22, 2003
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 20th August, 2003]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
FINANCE
ACT,  No.  25  OF  2003

<!-- page 2 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 1
[Certified on 20th August, 2003]
L. D.—O. 21/2003.
A N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  IMPOSITION  OF  A  LEVY  ON  THE
ISSUE  OF  AIRLINE  TICKETS  AND  TICKETS  IN RESPECT  OF  A  VOYAGE  BY
SHIP  ; TO  REPEAL  THE  EMBARKATION  TAX  ACT , NO . 19 OF  1961
AND  TO  AMEND  THE  AIR NA VIGA TION ACT  (CHAPTER  365) ; TO
PROVIDE  FOR  A  LEVY  ON  THE  TURNOVER  OF  INSTITUTIONS  LICENSED
UNDER  THE  TOURIST  DEVELOPMENT  ACT , NO . 14 OF  1968 ; AND
TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL
THERETO
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :–
1. This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 25 of
2003 and shall come into operation on September 1, 2003.
PART I
EMBARKATION  LEVY
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, there shall be charged and levied a levy to be called the
Embarkation Levy calculated in United States Dollars of
such amount as the Minister may determine by Order
published in the Gazette, in respect of —
(a) every airline ticket issued outside Sri Lanka to
passengers who will embark on a flight leaving Sri
Lanka or in respect of every airline ticket issued in
Sri Lanka to persons leaving Sri Lanka, the
equivalent thereof in Sri Lanka rupees, calculated
at such rate of exchange as may be determined by
the Competent Authority with the approval of the
Secretary to the Treasury :
  Provided however, no embarkation levy shall be
charged and levied in respect of an airline ticket
issued outside Sri Lanka to a transit passenger of
that aircraft ; and
2—H 018545— 5,650 (2003/06)
Short title.
Embarkation
Levy.

<!-- page 3 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20032
(b) every ticket issued in respect of a passenger
embarking  a ship leaving Sri Lanka.
For the purposes of this subsection “transit passenger”
means a passenger who departs from Sri Lanka on a
connecting flight within twenty-four hours of arrival.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply in
the case of—
(a) children who are less than two years of age ;
(b) officers and members of the crew of that aircraft or
ship ;
(c) such other persons as may be prescribed.
(3) An Order made by the Minister in terms of subsection
(1) may be amended, altered or varied by a subsequent Order
which shall be published in the Gazette.
3. The operator of every aircraft or ship shall collect
the embarkation levy and pay such levy to the  Government
of Sri Lanka in such manner as may be determined by the
Competent Authority. It shall be the duty of every operator
to comply with such determination.
4. (1) The embarkation levy collected in respect of a
half-month period by the operator of an aircraft or ship  from
a person leaving Sri Lanka by that aircraft or ship as the
case may be, shall be paid to the Competent Authority in
the manner  determined by the Competent Authority with
the approval of the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury. Any
dispute which may arise in  respect of such payment as
between the  Competent Authority and the operator, shall be
settled according to the applicable law.
(2) In case of a dispute between the Competent
Authority and the operator on the number of passengers liable
to pay the embarkation levy, the operator shall pay the
embarkation levy in accordance with the figures forwarded
by the Competent Authority, subject to his right to forward
to the Competent Authority any other documentary evidence
in his possession to substantiate his claim.
Operator to collect
embarkation levy.
Embarkation levy
to be paid to
Competent
Authority by the
operator.

<!-- page 4 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 3
Records.
(3) Where the embarkation levy due  for any half-month
period is not paid to the Competent Authority by the operator
of the aircraft in question in accordance with the preceding
provisions of this section, it shall be deemed to be in default
and an interest calculated on the average rated prime lending
rate in any given month, plus two per centum, shall be added
to that amount, so however, that for each month of default,
interest at the above rate shall be charged and recovered on
the total amount in default.
5. (1) The Competent Authority shall disburse the
money collected under this Part in accordance with such
instructions as may, be issued from time to time  by the
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
(2) The Competent Authority shall furnish a monthly
return of the amount collected  as Embarkation Levy with all
other relevant details to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury may, where he considers
it necessary, call for such other information or clarification in
respect of any matter arising out of such return.
6. The operator of any aircraft or ship shall, when
requested to do so by the Competent Authority, furnish to the
Competent Authority such information as is within the
knowledge of that operator in regard to the passengers
transported from Sri Lanka by that aircraft or ship as the
Competent Authority may require for the purposes of this Act.
7. (1) An operator shall maintain proper records of
passengers embarking on an aircraft or ship, as the case may
be, under the control of an operator, and of the embarkation
levy collected by the operator.
(2) Records relating to the payment and collection of
the embarkation levy shall be maintained separately from
any records relating to other payments made to the operator.
(3) The records required to be maintained under
subsection (1), may be destroyed by the operator after a period
of two years with the consent of the Competent Authority.
Competent
Authority to credit
the Consolidated
Fund.
Operator to
furnish required
information.

<!-- page 5 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20034
8. (1) An operator shall furnish returns in the form
specified by the Competent Authority, giving details of
passengers of any aircraft or ship, under the control of the
operator and departures of such aircraft or ship and such
other information relating to the embarkation levy or the
collection of the embarkation levy as the Competent
Authority may require. Every such return shall be filled in
triplicate and one copy thereof forwarded by the operator.
to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
(2) Nothing in subsection (1) shall derogate from or
affect the obligation of an operator, under  any other law for
the time being in force to furnish information on aircraft
operations or operations in relation to a ship designated under
such law.
(3) Where an operator fails to provide proper returns as
required by the Competent Authority, the Competent
Authority may require the operator to pay as embarkation
levy such amount as is calculated on the total number of
passengers in the passenger manifest of the aircraft or ship.
(4) Where a flight or passage is totally omitted from
the information provided, the embarkation levy will be
computed and the operator shall be charged on the total
seating capacity of such flight or voyage.
9. (1) For the purposes of verifying the correctness of
any information furnished by  an operator of an aircraft or
ship in pursuance of this Act, or for the purpose of securing
compliance with the provisions of this Act or of any
regulation made thereunder, the  Competent Authority may—
(a) enter any premises in Sri Lanka used by such
operator for the purposes of his business as a carrier
of passengers by aircraft or ship ; and
(b) inspect and take copies of any record of the—
(i) passengers transported from Sri Lanka by any
aircraft or ship of that operator ; and
Verification of
correctness of
information by the
Competent
Authority
Returns.

<!-- page 6 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 5
Interpretation.
(ii) embarkation levy collected by such operator
as is kept by that operator (whether in
pursuance of this Act or otherwise) in relation
to his business.
(2) The Competent Authority or any person authorised
by him in writing may, for the purpose of securing
compliance with the provisions of this Act or of any
regulations made thereunder, enter on board any aircraft or
ship arriving in or departing from Sri Lanka and require the
captain of that aircraft or ship to produce for inspection by
the Competent Authority any document which contains
information regarding the passengers to be transported by
that aircraft or ship, as the case may be.
10. In this Part unless the context otherwise requires—
“Captain” in relation to an aircraft or ship means the
person for the time being in charge, command or
control of that aircraft or ship ;
“Competent Authority” with reference to all matters
in relation to the charging of the embarkation levy
from persons leaving Sri Lanka—
(a) by aircraft, means the Director-General of
the Civil Aviation Authority appointed under
section 11 of the Civil Aviation Authority
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002;
(b) by ship means the Director of Merchant
Shipping appointed under the Merchant
Shipping Act, No. 52 of 1971 ;
“operator” in relation to —
(a) an aircraft, means the owner, a person acting
on behalf of the owner or Captain of that
aircraft ; and

<!-- page 7 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20036
(b) a ship, means the owner, a person acting on
behalf of the owner and in possession of a
license under the Licensing of Shipping
Agents Act, No. 10 of 1972, or the Captain
of that ship ;
“passenger manifest” means a list of passengers
authenticated by the operator and carried on board
an aircraft during flight or a ship during a voyage,
from one destination to another.
PART II
TOURISM  DEVELOPMENT  LEVY
11. From and after the date of commencement of this
Part of this Act, there shall be levied from every institution
licensed under the Tourist Development Act, No. 14 of 1968,
a levy of one percentum on the turnover of such institutions
in any year, to be called the Tourism Development Levy.
12. (1) The levy imposed under section 11 shall be paid
in such manner as may be prescribed by the relevant Minister
in consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance and collected by the Director-General of the Ceylon
Tourist Board established by the Ceylon Tourist Board Act,
No. 10 of 1966.
(2) The Director-General of the Ceylon Tourist Board
shall retain the entirety of the Levy collected under subsection
(1). He shall also furnish such returns in such manner as may
be prescribed in that behalf to the Deputy Secretary to the
Treasury, within thirty days of the date on which such amount
is collected.
Method of
payment of
Tourism
Development
Levy.
Imposition of levy
on institutions
licensed under the
Tourist
Development Act.

<!-- page 8 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 7
13. For the purposes of this Part, “turnover” in relation
to–
(a) a tourist hotel, means the amount received or
receivable from the total sales excluding the service
charge upto ten per centum of such sales and the
value added tax charged on such sales in terms of
the Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002;
(b) a travel agent, means the total receipts from services
provided in relation to the tourist industry excluding
payments made by him in respect of services
provided to him by other local service providers and
the value added tax charged on such services in terms
of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002;
(c) a tourist shop, means the amount received or
receivable from the total sales of products from any
such shop excluding the value added tax charged
on such sales in terms of the Value Added Tax Act,
No. 14 of 2002.
PART III
R
EPEAL  OF  THE  EMBARKATION  TAX  ACT , NO . 19 OF  1961 AND
AMENDMENT  OF  AIR NA VIGA TION ACT
14. The Embarkation Tax Act, No. 19 of 1961 is hereby
repealed.
15. (1) All persons in possession of airline tickets or
tickets in relation to passage by ship, purchased prior to
September 1, 2003, where the travel on such ticket takes
place after September 1, 2003, and on which the embarkation
levy specified under section 2 had not been collected shall
be required to pay the amount due as embarkation levy under
this Act, to an officer authorised in writing by the Competent
Authority  at the airport or port of departure as the case may
be. An endorsement that the embarkation levy has been duly
paid shall be made on the ticket by an officer authorised in
writing by the Competent Authority.
Repeal of Act,
No. 19 of 1961
Transitional
provisions.
Definition of
Turnover.

<!-- page 9 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 20038
(2) Any person who refuses to pay the embarkation levy
when requested to do so in terms of subsection (1), shall not
be permitted to board the aircraft or ship, as the case may be.
(3) An officer authorised in writing by the Competent
Authority  who fails to collect the embarkation levy in terms
of subsection (1) shall be liable to a fine of rupees five
hundred in respect of each ticket in relation to which the
levy had not been collected.
(4) The amount collected as embarkation levy under
this section, shall be paid to the Competent Authority daily,
by the officer authorised in writing by the Competent
Authority. The Competent Authority shall credit such amount
to the Consolidated Fund. A return containing the information
in relation to such levy shall be sent weekly to the Deputy
Secretary to the Treasury.
16. Section 23 of the Air Navigation Act (Chapter 365),
is hereby amended as follows :—
(1) by the repeal of subsection (2A) of that section ;
and
(2) in subsection (3) of that section by the omission of
the words, “(including the embarkation taxes
collected by him under section (2
A ) :”.
PART IV
G ENERAL
17. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required to be prescribed or for which
regulations are authorized to be made under this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing,
the Minister may by regulation provide for —
(a) the mode and manner of the payment and collection
of the embarkation levy by the operator ;
Amendment of
section 23 of
Chapter 365.
Regulations.

<!-- page 10 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 2003 9
(b) the amount of any deposit or bank guarantee for
such duration not exceeding one year to be made
or given to the Competent Authority by the operator
;
(c) the procedure to be followed in the disbursment of
the levies collected under this Act ;
(d) the making of returns for the purposes of this Act
and the form of such returns ;
(e) the mode and manner of payment and collection of
the Levy from institutions licensed under the Tourist
Development Act, No. 14 of 1968.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 11 -->

Finance Act, No. 25 of 200310
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNM  ENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.