

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2347$02 - 2023 wf.daia;= ui 28 jeks i`ÿod - 2023'08'28
No. 2347/02  -  moNday,   august  28, 2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 6463 - 26 (08/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CIVIL  A VIATION  ACT  No. 14  OF  2010
RuLEs made by the Civil aviation authority under section 53 of the Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010 read with section 
122 of the aforesaid act. 
 Nimal Siripala De Silv a,
 minister of Ports, shipping and aviation.
Colombo,
25th august 2023. 
                                   
Rules
1. these Rules may be cited as ''the National aeronautical search and Rescue Plan Rules, No. 1 of 2023."
2. National Aeronautical SAR System Organisation 
2.1 International Conventions on saR

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
2a
2.1.1 the International Civil aviation organization (ICao) and the International maritime organization (Imo) of the 
united Nations set the international requirements in the following conventions, for which signatories shall provide 
search and rescue (saR) services:
 Convention on International Civil aviation (Chicago Convention), 1944, annex 12
 united Nations Convention on the Law of the sea (uNCLos),1994
	 Safety	of	Life	at	Sea	(SOLAS)	Convention,	1974	(Under	Ratification)	
2.1.2 the goal of ICao and Imo is to provide an effective global saR system, so that wherever people travel, in the air 
or at sea, saR services will be available if needed.  Imo and ICao jointly published the International aeronautical 
and maritime search and Rescue (IamsaR) manual with the standards and guidelines for which saR services 
may be provided.
2.1.3	 SAR	 services	are	defined	as	the	performance	of	distress	monitoring,	communication,	coordination	and	search	and	
rescue functions, including provision of medical advice, initial medical assistance, or medical evacuation, through 
the use of public and private resources, including cooperating aircraft, vessels and other craft and installations.
2.1.4  In providing assistance to persons in distress and to survivors of sa R incidents, member s tates shall do so regardless 
of the nationality or status of such a person or the circumstances in which that person is found.
2.1.5 accordingly the united Nations Convention on the Law of the sea (uNCLos) and the Chicago Convention on 
International Civil aviation, has accepted the obligation to provide aeronautical and maritime saR Coordination 
and services for its territories, territorial seas, and the high seas within its search and Rescue Region (sRR). 
2.2 National saR Legislation
2.2.1 the relevant International Conventions outlined in section 2.1.1 obligate sri Lanka to maintain effective means to 
provide and coordinate search and Rescue (saR) to persons in distress within its sRR.  Responsibility to assist in 
saR has been designated to a number of government agencies at the Regulatory and operational level.
2.2.2 Provisions in air Navigation Regulations of 1955 section 11 (1) , (2) & (3), Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka 
act, No. 34 of 2002 Part II; section 7 (h), Civil aviation act, No. 14 of 2010; sections 31 (c) & 54, Implementing 
standard No. 29 of CaasL promulgating ICao annex 12 and search & Rescue manual of sri Lanka (sLCaP 2700 
of	CAASL)	in	conjunction	with	IAMSAR	Manual	Volumes	I,	II	&	III	and	ICAO	Asia-Pacific	Regional	Mandate	as	
per ICao aPaC saR Plan 3.0/2019  have formed the basis for the functions and responsibilities in the provision 
of aeronautical saR included in this National aeronautical saR Plan.
2.3 sri Lanka’s search and Rescue Region (sRR)
2.3.1 the area of Responsibility for providing and coordinating saR services is the designated sRR for each nation. this 
is	an	area	of	defined	dimensions	associated	with	an	RCC.	
2.3.2 sRRs are established to ensure effective, adequate and primary saR coordination within the respective regions, 
including	the	provision	of	SAR	communications,	medical	assistance	services,	efficient	distress	alert	routing	and	
assistance to anyone in distress without regard to nationality or circumstance. 
2.3.3 the sRR is the boundary designated by ICao as the Colombo Flight Information Region (FIR).
2.3.4 this area is referred to as the sri Lanka sRR which is illustrated in annex-1 of this Plan.
2.3.5 the delimitation of sRRs is not related to and shall not prejudice the delimitation of any territorial boundaries 
between sri Lanka and its neighbouring states. sRRs are established for the sole purpose of saR coordination.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
3a
2.4 sri Lanka saR Responsibilities 
2.4.1 In accordance with annex 12 of the Convention of International Civil aviation, the government, through the Civil 
aviation authority of sri Lanka (CaasL), accepts responsibility for the provision of saR services for aircraft in 
distress within sri Lanka’s sRR.  on behalf of the CaasL, the responsibilities for the coordination of aeronautical 
saR response are exercised by airport and aviation services ( sri Lanka)(Pvt) Limited ( aasL), through the 
aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre (aRCC).
2.4.2 In accordance with the International Convention on maritime search and Rescue, the government, through the 
ministry of Ports and shipping and aviation, accepts responsibility for the provision of maritime saR for persons 
on or from a vessel at sea in sri Lanka’s sRR.  on behalf of the ministry of Ports and shipping, the coordination 
of maritime saR response is the responsibility of the merchant shipping secretariat which has been delegated to 
the sri Lanka Navy to exercise from the maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (mRCC).
2.4.3 Each rescue coordination centre is responsible to provide when requested, assistance to other RCCs. 
2.4.4 the responsibility of the Civil aviation authority on conducting of Investigations into any aircraft incident or 
accident occurred;
➢ within the territory of sri Lanka, 
➢ in respect of any aircraft registered in sri Lanka; or 
➢ in respect of any aircraft registered in sri Lanka where an investigation is not conducted by the state of 
occurrence or the territory where the accident occurred, 
is	specified	in	the	Aircraft	Accident	and	Incident	Investigation	Regulation	of	Sri	Lanka.
2.5 National aeronautical saR Plan (NasaRP) of sri Lanka
2.5.1 the National aeronautical search and Rescue Plan (NasaRP) is the baseline reference document for use by all 
organisations with saR responsibilities in sri Lanka. the Nasa RP outlines the National arrangements by which 
the saR organisations in sri Lanka will collectively work together to meet its National and International obligations.
 
2.5.2 the objectives of the National aeronautical saR Plan are to:
➢ Provide a Plan for coordinating saR services to meet National requirements and to document National 
Policies;
➢ Provide an overall Plan for coordination of aeronautical saR operations, effective use of available resources, 
mutual assistance and efforts to improve such cooperation and services;
➢ Provide the organizational framework, understanding the general procedures for coordinated, timely and 
effective response to aeronautical search and Rescue incidents; and
➢ Integrate available saR resources into a cooperative network for greater protection of life and to ensure 
greater	efficiency	and	economy.
2.5.3 this Plan is further intended to:
➢ Provide National guidance for the development of saR-related systems; 
➢ describe its participants and their roles in the sri Lanka saR system; 
➢ Recognize the lead National agencies for aeronautical saR operations and describe saR responsibilities;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
4a
➢ account for all operations up to and including providing initial assistance to saR survivors and delivering 
them to a place of safety; and 
➢ Cooperate for overall and continual development, coordination and improvement of saR services.
2.5.4 this National aeronautical saR Plan will not, where possible, prejudice any of the standards and guidelines stated 
in the IamsaR manual. this is to ensure the ability for the saR units and personnel partaking in providing saR 
services to be able to work uniformly and effectively in joint saR operations with other states when and if required.
 
2.5.5 the guidelines and policies outlined in the National aeronautical saR Plan will not prejudice the legal provisions 
of sri Lanka or any international conventions and obligations adhered by sri Lanka.
2.5.6 this National aeronautical saR Plan will be applicable to the events of an incident/ accident involving aircraft 
crashed into sea, any other water body or land area within the search and Rescue Region (sRR) of sri Lanka.
2.6 governance of the National aeronautical saR Plan
2.6.1 National aeronautical saR Committee (NasC)
2.6.1.1  the National aeronautical search and Rescue Committee (NasC) is the Executive body for all saR related 
stakeholders of sri Lanka and issues concerning aeronautical saR. the committee shall be responsible for providing 
the strategic guidance for effective saR services and operations within sri Lanka sRR through the development 
and maintenance of the National aeronautical saR Plan of sri Lanka and the oversight of its implementation.
2.6.1.2	 The	Terms	of	Reference	for	the	NASC	are	specified	in	1.6.2	of	this	plan.	
2.6.1.3  t he NasC shall comprise with the following members from the respective ministries, authorities, and organizations 
which are responsible for regulation, prevention, coordination, response and investigation on matters related to 
aeronautical saR;
1) secretary to the ministry of Ports, shipping & aviation (co-chair)
2) secretary to the ministry of defence (co-chair)
3) secretary to the ministry of Finance, Economic stabilization and National Policies;
4) secretary to the ministry of Fisheries;
5) secretary to the ministry of Health;
6) secretary to the ministry of Foreign affairs;
7) director general of Civil aviation sri Lanka (secretary)
8) Chairman of airport & aviation services (sri Lanka) (Pvt) Ltd;
9) director general of the disaster management Centre; 
2.6.1.4  the NasC shall also be responsible for developing and maintaining the National aeronautical saR manual for saR 
operations in line with the guidance of the National aeronautical saR Plan. this will enable a well-coordinated 
aeronautical saR system that is capable of providing uniform saR services to the search and Rescue Region of 
sri Lanka. 
2.6.2 t erms of Reference for National aeronautical saR Committee (NasC) of sri Lanka 
2.6.2.1 the aim of establishing an NasC is to provide strategic coordination, guidance and leadership for sri Lanka’s 
National aeronautical saR system. It is mandatory that the committee should meet at an initiation of aeronautical 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
5a
saR event or else regularly at least once a year. It will report to the minister of Civil aviation on an annual basis 
and for consideration as the situation requires.
2.6.2.2 the NasC shall be co-chaired by the secretary to the ministry of Ports, shipping & aviation with the secretary to 
the ministry of defence. the director general of Civil aviation shall act as the secretary to the committee. Rest of 
the	committee	membership	shall	be	as	specified	in	2.6.1.3.
2.6.2.3 the Committee is responsible for the accomplishment of following;
a. Provide a standing National forum for co-ordination of administrative and operational aeronautical saR 
matters;
b. develop, maintain and oversee the implementation of the National aeronautical saR Plan for sri Lanka.
c. develop and maintain a National aeronautical saR manual for effective saR response plans;
d. standardize saR procedures and training to enable interoperability among sri Lanka saR organizations;
e. Ensure saR service providers have saR Readiness Plans in place and are exercised regularly, including 
Mass	Rescue	Operations	required	in	significant	SAR	operations.
f.	 Maintain	equipment	and	Systems	to	enhance	the	overall	effectiveness	of	efficiency	of	SAR	Services;
g. Promote close cooperation and co-ordination among the ministries, government departments and other 
organizations	including	military	authorities	for	the	provision	of	an	effective	and	efficient	SAR	service;
h. Promote coordination and cooperation among aeronautical, maritime and local saR entities to enhance 
effective monitoring mechanism;
i. Promote effective use of all available facilities for aeronautical saR;
j.	 Determine	other	ways	to	enhance	the	overall	effectiveness	and	efficiency	of	Aeronautical	SAR	services;
k. Provide an interface with regional and international organizations involved with aeronautical saR and 
emergency services.
2.6.3 saR organization chart
Figure 1: saR organization Chart


<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
6a
2.6.4  National aeronautical saR Response mechanism
 


<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
7a
2.7  Roles and Responsibilities of the saR organisations 
Roles and responsibilities of each saR organization under this Plan are outlined hereunder while detailed procedure 
to be followed by each saR organization shall be included as an soP in their respective operations manuals:
2.7.1 ministry of Ports, shipping and aviation 
the ministry is responsible for formulating and implementing National Policy on saR as a function under Civil 
aviation.
the ministry is also responsible to, 
a. develop and implement the National aeronautical saR Plan which includes plans for response to mass 
Rescue operations (mRos) integrated with National disaster Plans, on behalf of the state and delegating 
the	responsibility	for	search	and	rescue	to	the	appropriate	strategic	stakeholders	as	defined	in	this	National	
aeronautical saR Plan.
b.  Establish National aeronautical saR Committee to provide strategic coordination, guidance and leadership 
for the National aeronautical saR system in sri Lanka and to advise the minister of Civil aviation on 
saR matters as required and to ensure the maximum practicable cooperation among the state entities.
c.  Provide necessary guidance and mediation in relation to inter-ministerial coordination that may be required 
in connection with saR arrangements/missions.  
d. Facilitate under the direction of the minister, the requisition of any aircraft from local aircraft operators in 
order to be used in a search and rescue operation.
e. Establish contingency facilities or procedures for temporary delegation of saR to another body or state 
during an event of service disruption to the provision of saR.
f.  assist CaasL to enter into agreements with neighbouring states to strengthen search and Rescue 
cooperation and coordination, setting forth the conditions for entry of each other’s search and Rescue units 
into their respective territories.
g.	 Ensure	the	necessary	information	flows	to	the	public	through	mass	media.
 Being the ministry for overlooking aspects of Ports and shipping & aviation affairs of sri Lanka, the 
ministry is also responsible for coordinating and facilitating the required services of agencies, such as 
Sri	Lanka	Ports	Authority	(Defined	as	a	separate	stake	holder,	Ref	2.7.21),	Ceylon	Shipping	Corporation	
and merchant shipping secretariat; by timely mobilising their equipment and skilled personnel to saR 
missions within the sRR. 
 the mRCC as the entity that co-ordinates all maritime saR related activities in an event of an emergency, 
they are vested with the authority to direct merchant ships in the sRR to assist ongoing saR activities. 
 the merchant shipping secretariat, through sri Lanka Navy, has delegated the authority to mRCC to 
coordinate saR related activities in an event of an emergency. accordingly, mRCC is vested with authority 
to direct merchant ships in the sRR to assist ongoing saR activities.  
 In an event of aeronautical saR, merchant shipping secretariat is responsible for;
a. directing merchant Vessels operating within the sRR of sri Lanka for commercial purposes, to act as an 
alerting Post in aeronautical accidents occurred over sea.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
8a
b. acquiring the support of merchant ships in aeronautical saR operations over sea.
c. Rendering any other support required by mRCC in carrying out saR operations over sea.
d.	 Notifications	 to	the	flag	states	of	the	merchant	ships	that	involve	in	the	SAR	operation,	as	applicable;	and	
direct and assist, merchant ships involved in saR operation, as applicable. 
2.7.2 ministry of defence (mod)
a. Provide strategic coordination, guidance and leadership for the National aeronautical saR system in sri 
Lanka and to advise the minister of defence on saR matters as required and to ensure the maximum 
practicable cooperation among the entities under the purview of the mod.  
b. Provide the security clearance for foreign aircraft to enter into and land at sri Lanka.
c. Provide required authorization to bring in foreign saR equipment as necessitated by the circumstances 
during a saR event or operation.
d.  Prompt coordination for the mobilization of saR units belonging to security forces and other entities under 
the administrative preview of mod to assist aircraft in distress and the survivors of an aircraft accident. 
 the roles and responsibilities of those entities which are under the purview of mod are given in 2.7.6, 
2.7.7, 2.7.8, 2.7.9 and 2.7.10. 
2.7.3 Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka (CaasL)
as per Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka act, No. 34 of 2002, P aRt II section 7 (h), Civil aviation authority 
of sri Lanka under the direction of the director general of Civil aviation shall “initiate investigations on aircraft 
accidents and any other related incidents, arrange for the establishment and provision of search and rescue operations 
and	conduct	inquiries	with	regard	to	any	flight	safety	hazards	and	take	remedial	action”.
the CaasL is also responsible to;
a. assist the ministry of Civil aviation for developing and implementing the National aeronautical saR 
Plan and Contingency Plans.
b. make necessary arrangements for the establishment and prompt provision of aeronautical search and 
Rescue (saR) services to ensure that assistance is rendered to aircraft in distress and to the survivors of 
aircraft accidents.
c. make arrangements for the use of saR units and other available facilities to assist any aircraft or its 
occupants who are, or appear to be in a state of emergency.
d. Publishing relevant information pertaining to saR in appropriate aeronautical publications.
e. t o coordinate the development and maintaining of a current, comprehensive electronic list of state saR 
facilities, saR equipment and sRus.
f. Establish, implement and maintain a regulatory framework and oversight the aeronautical saR service 
provider, to the scale and complexity of the National aeronautical saR requirement of sri Lanka.  
g. Engage in the on-site saR oversight activities.
h.  Enter into agreements with neighbouring states to strengthen search and Rescue cooperation and 
coordination, setting forth the conditions for entry of each other’s search and Rescue units into their 
respective territories.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
9a
i. Initiate investigations on aircraft accidents and any other related incidents which require saR response. 
j.  Provide required authorization for foreign aircraft to land at appropriate aerodromes and join saR operations 
as and when required.
k. Facilitate the requests that may be made by saR operational personnel for additional saR assets from 
other Contracting states.
2.7.4 airports & aviation services (sri Lanka) (Pvt) Limited (aasL)
aasL being the statutory aNs Provider of sri Lanka, through its aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre (aRCC) 
holds the responsibility of coordinating aeronautical saR operations and maintaining the necessary infra-structure, 
qualified	and	trained	SAR	personnel	together	with	updated	current	procedures	for	the	execution	of	the	effective	
coordination of saR missions within sRR of sri Lanka, and also to extend the assistance to saR missions undertaken 
by the adjacent sRRs to their best ability and capability.
In addition, aasL is also responsible to, 
a.	 Maintain	 fully	equipped	ARCC	of	sufficient	size	with	adequate	provision	of	operational	positions	and	
saR human resource requirements. 
b. Enter into an operational coordination agreement (oCa) with sL Navy maintained mRCC for sharing of 
operational information on aeronautical saR events.
c. Provide adequate supervisory atC resources to allow timely sRR alerts and information to aRCC.
d.	 Provide	sufficient	 ARCC	staff	to	serve	on	a	24	hour	basis.
e.	 Provide	 sufficient	number	of	trained	specialist	ARCC	officers	including	SARO’s	and	Assistant	SARO’s.
f. Empower the smCs with the authority to adequately carry out their responsibilities.
g.  Ensure the availability of a pool of aRCC support (saRo’s) staff who are familiar with aRCC operations.
h. develop saR personnel position description detailing responsibilities and eligibility criteria.
i. develop a comprehensive training programme that includes saR training for aRCC personnel.
j.  Ensure the aRCC personnel involved in the conduct of radiotelephony communications maintain at ICao  
English	Language	Proficiency	Level	4	as	minimum	and	facilitate	to	be	proficient	in	English	Language.
k.  make arrangements for Regular liaison visits by aRCC personnel to other RCCs, airline operating Centres 
and RCCs of neighbouring states.
l. Implementation of saR system improvement and assessment measures including safety management 
and Qa  systems.
m.	 Conduct	 an	annual	or	more	frequent	analysis	of	the	current	SAR	system	to	identify	specific	gaps	in	
capability (Internal audits etc.)
n.  arrange saR exercises (saREXs) on predetermined regular intervals with the participation of stakeholders 
of saR in sri Lanka.
o. Facilitate the movements of the foreign saR assets through civilian airports.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
10a
2.7.5 aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre (aRCC)
the Colombo aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre (aRCC) is based at the Colombo International airport 
Ratmalana adjacent to the Colombo area Control Centre.
the aRCC is the primary point of contact for reports of an aeronautical saR incident in the sri Lanka search and 
Rescue Region. Information relevant to such aeronautical events may come from the public or directly from an air 
Traffic	Control	Centre.
the aRCC is responsible to;
a. act as the focal point for receiving information on aircraft distresses which would eventually develop 
into a saR event.
b. For events over sea, coordinate with mRCC as appropriate to alert the mRCC and request assistance in 
order to locate where the incident has taken place.
c. For events over land, coordinate with dmC as appropriate to alert their network of rescue units to provide 
required assistance.
d. Notify the occurrence to the National aeronautical saR Committee.
e. assume the Role of smC for the coordination of the conduct of saR operation.
f. determining the search datum of the ill-fated aircraft.
g. determine the search area and the search patterns to be executed.
h. activate the soP for search planning & Rescue operations.
i. Reporting the conclusion of the aeronautical saR event.
In addition to the operational requirements mentioned above, the aRCC is also responsible to;
j. develop and maintain the aeronautical saR operations manual, which shall serve to demonstrate how 
Rescue Coordination Centres will comply with the requirements set out in the local regulations.
k.  develop saR operational Plans & procedures, communication and reporting mechanism and the provision 
of support to other sRus.
l. make arrangements for the establishment of an internet - based saR information sharing system.
m.  Establish Communication channels with dmC for providing information and coordinating rescue operations 
during an aeronautical saR event occurred within land.
n. develop and maintain a current, comprehensive, electronic list of state saR facilities, saR equipment 
and sRus.
o. Ensure the closest practicable coordination, consistency and cooperation with mRCC.
p. Establish saR distress alerting procedures with RsCs and other information sources available.
q. Establish procedures and necessary infrastructure to coordinate distress beacon alert responses.
r. maintain a current list of distress beacons registered within the sRR Colombo.
s. development of Contingency plans & procedures and establishment of contingency facilities for partial 
or total service disruptions to the provision of saR services.
t. Conduct regular saREXs to test and evaluate coordination procedures, data and information sharing and 
saR responses.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
11 a
the following Institutions mentioned in 2.7.6, 2.7.7, 2.7.8, 2.7.9 and 2.7.10 which are under the purview of the 
ministry of defence are entrusted with roles and responsibilities to provide search & Rescue units to promptly 
assist aircraft in distress and to survivors of aircraft accidents.  
2.7.6  sri Lanka Navy (sLN)
the sLN is the primary sRu provider of sri Lanka’s maritime and aeronautical saR efforts within the oceanic 
portion of sRR of sri Lanka.
the sri Lanka Navy is responsible to,
a. Establish and maintain maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (mRCC). 
b. Enter into an operational coordination agreement (oCa) with aasL maintained aRCC for sharing of 
operational information on aeronautical saR events.
c. Respond with maritime assets to aeronautical saR occurrence taking place within the oceanic portion 
of sri Lanka sRR. 
d. Respond with saR assets to aeronautical saR occurrence taking place within a water body in the island.  
e. Carryout search operations with search patterns described as per standards to locate survivors and the 
wreckages of occurrence.
f. deploy trained personal to saR operations with essential saR equipment including divers as and when 
appropriate.
g. make arrangements for rescue of injured personnel from inaccessible or remote land areas, or areas 
accessible by water but not accessible by land.
h.  Coordinate real time marine assistance to respond to aircraft in distress and rescue the survivors of aircraft 
accidents.
2.7.7  maritime Rescue Coordination Centre (mRCC)
mRCC is the saR Coordinator for maritime saR in sri Lanka and as such is responsible for implementing the 
maritime elements of the National aeronautical saR Plan to respond to an aeronautical saR event known to them 
or	notified	by	the	ARCC.
Responsibilities of the mRCC relevant to aeronautical saR are as follows;
a.  Receive distress alerts or any pertinent information regarding an aircraft in distress over sea, from an alerting 
post or any other source and relay that to aRCC and other relevant sRus.
b. activate the soP for in relation to aircraft in distress over sea.
c. assume the role of smC for the aeronautical saR event in agreement with aRCC
d.	 Facilitate	the	required	information	flow	in	regard	of	an	aeronautical	SAR	event	taking	place	over	the	ocean.
In addition to the main operational responsibilities, the mRCC is also responsible to:
e. Provide a continuous marine radio distress listening service;
f. develop and maintain the saR operations manual, which includes soPs detailing operational Plans & 
procedures, communication & reporting mechanism and the provision of support to other sRus in order 
to respond to saR events. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
12a
g.  Ensure the closest practicable coordination, consistency and cooperation with the aRCC.
h.        Establish saR distress alerting procedures with RsCs and other information sources available
												in	the	ocean	including	Merchant	ships	and	fishing	community.
i.          maintain fully equipped RCC with adequately trained staff.
j.          develop comprehensive training programmes for mRCC personnel.
k.         Ensure the mRCC personnel involved in the conduct of radiotelephony communications 
												are	proficient	in	English	Language.
l.          make arrangements for Regular liaison visits by mRCC personnel to other RCCs, airline 
            operating Centres and RCCs of neighbouring states.
m.       Conduct regular saREXs to test and evaluate coordination procedures, data and 
            information sharing and saR responses.
n.         Implementation of saR system improvement and assessment measures including 
            safety management and Qa  systems.
2.7.8  sri Lanka air Force (sLaF)   
the sLaF is the primary source of providing airborne sRus for aeronautical saR events occurring within sri 
Lanka sRR.
Following are the main responsibilities of sLaF in an event of aeronautical saR event;
a. Establish Communication channels to receive information on saR events.
b.  deploy airborne sRus to conduct the search operations to locate the survivors and wreckages of 
aeronautical saR events.
c. Provide airborne sRus engage in saR operations.
d. deploy trained personnel to saR operations with appropriate saR equipment.
e. Relay the real time information regarding saR events to the appropriate rescue coordination centres.
f. Provide aerial surveillance to the saR events to direct sRus to the location of the event. 
g. Facilitate the urgent transportation needs of survivors to safe locations.  
h. Locating survival equipment suitably packed at appropriate aerodromes to be dropped by aircraft to the 
survivors of aircraft emergencies.
2.7.9 sri Lanka army (sLa)
the sLa  is the main saR asserts provider for the land based saR operations taking place beyond the responding 
areas of established aerodromes. the sL a performs an integral part with responsibilities of coordinating and attending 
to rescue and relief operations over land areas within sri Lanka.
the sLa  is responsible for:
a. deploying troops equipped to carry out search and rescue operations. this shall include mass Rescue 
operations (mRos) over land. 
b. Facilitate initial medical assistants to the survivors. 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
13a
2.7.10 sri Lanka Coast guard (sLCg)
the sri Lanka coast guard is responsible for participating in search & Rescue operations and rendering necessary 
assistance to the main saR units in rescue operations during an aeronautical saR event at sea.
the sLCg is responsible for;
a. acting as an alerting Post for aeronautical saR events.
b. Rendering assistance to aeronautical saR events through the established Rescue sub Centre Network 
along the Coastline of sri Lanka.
c. deploying available saR assets to aeronautical saR occurrence taking place within the oceanic portion 
of sRR sri Lanka. 
d. deploy trained personnel to saR operations with essential saR equipment including the divers as and 
when appropriate.
e. Provision of necessary security for aircraft debris that may be found within the territorial waters of sri 
Lanka.
the following Institutions mentioned in 2.7.11, 2.7.12, 2.7.13 and 2.7.14 are entrusted with roles and responsibilities 
to provide search & Rescue units to promptly assist aircraft in distress and to survivors of aircraft accidents. 
2.7.11 disaster management Centre (dmC)
dmC being the state Constituted Institution for responding to Natural disasters and National Emergencies with 
established Island wide network of government administrators, is responsible to:
a. Incorporate the response for aircraft incidents and accidents into the available soPs of dmC associated 
with National Emergencies. 
b. Establish Communication channels to receive information from aRCC on aeronautical saR events.
c.	 Ensure	 efficient,	effective,	timely	and	rapid	coordination	of	SAR	Operations	and	Management	of	relief	
activities through the Island wide network of government authorities and agencies established under dmC. 
d. Coordinating the conduct of mass Rescue operations (mRos) during aeronautical saR incidents 
within the land area of sri Lanka.
2.7.12 sri Lanka Police
during an event of aeronautical saR, the sri Lanka police is responsible to,
a. act as an alerting Post within sri Lanka aeronautical saR system to notify the Rescue Coordination 
Centres promptly and directly of aircraft accidents or aircraft emergencies over land.
b.	 Provide 	necessary	trained	SAR	teams,	including	the	deployment	of	Special	Task	Force	officers	for	
conducting saR operations as appropriate.
c. assume the security responsibility within the area of aircraft accident/ incident.
d. Provide security for the accident/ incident site including the debris.
e. act as the law enforcement authority. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
14a
f.	 Establish	an	unobstructed	flow	of	emergency	and	other	supporting	vehicles	in/out	of	the	site.		
g.	 Control	 the	public	influx	to	the	incident	site	and	prominently	display	the	possible	hazards	within	the	area.
2.7.13 department of meteorology (dom)
the department of meteorology being the National aviation meteorological service provider, is responsible for 
providing weather related data and information such as on-scene weather conditions, weather reports and forecasts 
for aeronautical saR operations over the sea, the dom is also responsible for providing the following according 
to the availability of the data,
•	 Wind	Direction	and	Speed	–	 At	surface	and	upper	levels
•	 Ceiling	of	the	search	area	(	Important	data	for	Search	asset	deployment)	
•	 Visibility	and	temperature	of	the	search	area	
•	 CB’s,	Rain	and	any	other	special	weather	condition	or	development.	
2.7.14 department of Immigration and Emigration sri Lanka
the department of Immigration and Emigration is responsible for;
a.	 The	 department	may	issue	a	temporary	visa	to	surviving	passengers	who	forgo	the	connection	flights	due	
to an aircraft accident. the department may coordinate with respective airlines where necessary.  
b.	 Where	 the	intended	route	/	destination	is	different,	surviving	passengers	may	not	be	properly	documented	
to sri Lanka; the department may facilitate to issue a temporary visa and other forms of facilitation in 
these circumstances. 
c.	 The	 department	may	issue	an	Identity	Certificate	to	the	surviving	foreign	passengers	whose	travel	documents	
are	destroyed	due	to	an	air	crash	or	whatsoever.	It	may	be	processed	after	confirming	the	nationality	through	
the ministry of foreign affairs, if his/her respective foreign mission does not exist in sri Lanka. 
d.	 When	 arriving	the	authorized	representatives	of	the	carrier/operator,	technical	experts,	foreign	investigators,	
interpreters and other necessary personnel for (search and Rescue) saR operation in sri Lanka, the 
department may issue a required visa and visa extension considering the gravity of the issue. 
e.  the department may assist to investigate any national security concerned matters in relation to the crashed 
aircraft by providing necessary details to the local and foreign investigators. 
f.  the department may maintain a rapport with all respective entities which support for humanitarian 
operation at the time of aircraft crash.  
2.7.15 ministry of Health 
Being the state ministry for Health having the control of all government Health Bodies and agencies, the ministry 
of Health is responsible for: 
a. organizing the medical Response for an saR event immediately with the receipt of such request or 
information from a reliable source.
b. Prompt deployment of trained skilled medical personnel and equipment in Rescue operations during an 
aeronautical saR event.
c. Provision of medical evacuation, initial medical assistance and medical advice. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
15a
d. Ensure adequate human resources including doctors, Nurses and other supporting staff are available to 
respond for an saR event.
e.  Ensure the ambulances and other mobile healthcare facilities are readily available for the prompt response 
of any mass Rescue operations.
2.7.16 ministry of Foreign affairs
the ministry of foreign affairs, as the line ministry for inter-state coordination, in relation to aeronautical saR 
events is responsible for;
a. Coordinating with diplomatic missions of other countries to acquire support for saR operations when 
such requirements exist.
b. Coordinating and facilitating International Logistic requirements for saR operations.
c.	 Facilitating	 the	overflying/	landing	of	foreign	aircraft	joining	SAR	missions	in	consultation	with	other	
line agencies.
d. Facilitating the arrivals of foreign experts of saR and accident/ Incident Investigations.
e. Facilitating the establishment of saR agreements with neighbouring states by providing clearance to 
texts of such agreements. 
2.7.17 ministry of Finance, Economic stabilization and National Policies. 
the ministry of Finance will assist for providing necessary consultation for determining the Compensation in respect 
of requisition of any aircraft and payment to persons whose services were called out to facilitate any air search or 
rescue operations, requisition of any civil aircraft from its owner or operator and also call out for services of any 
person whose services may become essential to assist in air search or rescue operations.
Consent of the ministry of Finance is necessary for authorizing in respect of any payments made for saR assets 
deployed in an aeronautical saR operation mentioned above.
2.7.18 sri Lanka Customs 
sri Lanka Customs which is under the purview of the ministry of Finance, Economic stabilization and National 
Policies, is responsible for: 
a. Facilitating aeronautical saR events by expediting customs clearance involving saR equipment to be 
utilised, which are intended to be exported from other countries, whenever requested by saR units.
b.  t he expedite clearance of equipment as well as consumables, would be possible on provisional basis where 
the	party	concerned	is	required	to	subsequently	submit	related	documents	to	Customs	for	finalization	of	
the Customs formalities. 
c.	 When	 such	goods	are	to	be	re-exported,	the	requirements	under	the	Customs	Law	have	to	be	fulfilled	and	
the re-exportation has to be made within one year from the date of importation. 
d.	 Whether	 the	articles/goods	salvaged	from	the	distressed	aircraft	are	destined	to	Sri	Lanka	or	otherwise,	
the process of disposal of the same will be under the purview of sri Lanka Customs.   

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
16a
2.7.19 ministry of Fisheries
ministry of Fisheries is responsible for directing the department of Fisheries & aquatic Resources, which is under 
its purview, to obtain support for aeronautical saR operations by;
a. Notifying the occurrences of aeronautical saR events over sea, received through the Local Fishing 
Community to the relevant authorities.
b.	 Obtaining	support	from	the	local	fishing	community	for	SAR	operations	undertaken	at	sea.
c. department of Fisheries & aquatic Resources is responsible for rapid exchange of information with 
ARCC	regarding	any	aeronautical	emergency	in	the	SRR,	received	through	multiday	fishing	vessels.		
d. making all multiday sailors and crew aware of the aeronautical saR operation procedures.
e.	 Providing	 training	and	awareness	to	radio	communication	officers	of	Department	of	Fisheries	&	Aquatic	
Resources on aeronautical saR operations. 
2.7.20 National aquatic Resources Research and development agency (NaRa)
 
the National aquatic Resources Research and development agency (NaRa), is the national institute mainly 
responsible for carrying out and coordinating research, development and management activities on the subject of 
aquatic resources in sri Lanka.
In relation to the aeronautical saR events, the National Hydrographic and National Institute of oceanographic 
marine sciences of NaRa  is responsible for providing:
a. sea level data including sea current and tides, which will be an important factor in plotting search areas;
b. data on depths in the sea areas of interest which will be important for maritime search activities.
c. data relating to inland water bodies such as rivers, lakes, tanks and reservoirs which will aid in search 
and rescue efforts within the country.  
d. assist aRCC to locate the search and rescue area, using ocean modelling to minimise the search time.  
2.7.21 sri Lanka Ports authority
Sri	Lanka	Ports	Authority	is	the	state	owned	operator	of	all	the	major	ports	in	Sri	Lanka.	SLPA	is	identified	as	an	asset	
provider for the national aeronautical search and rescue operations at sea. the expertise and trained staff will be vital 
in providing and assisting search and rescue operations and salvage operations of distressed aircraft when required.
the responsibilities of sLP a would be;
a. t o provide assistance and aid for search and rescue operations at sea.
b. t o provide assistance for salvage operations and oil pollution control at sea.
2.8 t erms of Cooperation
2.8.1 the saR organisations agree to support the National aeronautical saR Plan to ensure that: 
a) sri Lanka’s obligations under international conventions and agreements relating to search and rescue are 
fulfilled;	
b) the National approach to aeronautical search and Rescue coordination is continued and strengthened; 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
17a
c) mechanisms are in place to facilitate cooperative decision making; and 
d) the obligations of sri Lanka under this arrangement are met. 
2.8.2 all existing and potential saR services agree to enhance cooperation with regard to joint saR operations and 
training. this shall include sharing of relevant saR incident information, available means for assistance during a 
saR incident, mutual training opportunities related to saR and the mechanism of saR coordination at any given 
incident where more than one saR service provider is authorized to attend and coordinate.
2.9 Resourcing agreement between saR organisations
2.9.1 the saR organisations should take such action required to achieve the objectives of the National aeronautical saR 
Plan in accordance with the Roles and Responsibilities described. 
2.9.2 the saR organisations should plan for necessary resources required for search and rescue responsibilities as set out 
in the National aeronautical saR Plan.
2.10 Charging of aeronautical saR services
2.10.1  In accordance with customary international laws, when a nation requests help from another nation to assist a person(s) 
in danger or distress, if such help is provided, it will be done voluntarily, and sri Lanka will neither request nor pay 
reimbursement of cost for such assistance.
2.10.2 Participants agree that saR services they provide to persons in danger or distress will be without subsequent cost-
recovery from the person(s) assisted.
2.10.3 Participants are to fund their own activities in relation to this Plan unless otherwise arranged by the Participants 
in advance, and will not allow a matter of reimbursement of cost among them to delay response to any person in 
danger or distress.
2.10.4 the Civil aviation authority that may hire or request privately owned facilities for an aeronautical saR operation 
will, unless otherwise agreed upon, bear any costs of hiring or payment of compensation for such requisitioning.
3.  Aeronautical Sar Operations
the overall responsibility for the initiation and execution of an aeronautical saR operation lies with the aeronautical 
Rescue Coordination Centre (aRCC) manned by airport & aviation services (sri Lanka) (Pvt) Ltd. Nevertheless, for 
aeronautical saR occurrences over sea, this responsibility can be mutually exchanged between aRCC and mRCC.
3.1 Roles and Responsibilities during an aeronautical saR operation
Following	operational	roles	are	specified	demarcating	the	operational	responsibilities	during	an	Aeronautical	SAR	
event.
3.1.1      saR mission Coordinators (smC)
smC shall be designated either by aRCC or mRCC as the case may be within the sRR for conducting aeronautical 
SAR	operations.	The	SMC	is	responsible	for	all	stages	of	the	SAR	operation	and	for	efficiently	executing	a	SAR	
operation using the assets available. smC’s responsibilities include the prompt dispatch of appropriate and adequate 
saR assets and execution of saR operations until rescue has been completed or the chance of success is no longer 
a reasonable possibility.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
18a
3.1.2      saR Liaison Coordinator 
The	SAR	Liaison	Coordinator	should	be	a	senior	official	either	from	ARCC	or	MRCC	depending	on	the	SAR	
occurrence who will coordinate resources of each sRu to the smC. 
3.1.3     on - scene Coordinators (osC)
The	OSC	is	the	most	senior	and	capable	person	allocated	on-scene	for	a	specific	SAR	case.	The	Commanding	Officer/
Officer-In-Charge	of	an	SRU	is	usually	designated	as	the	OSC	by	the	SMC.	When	a	number	of	SAR	assets	are	
working together on the same saR mission in the same location, there may be an advantage if one unit is assigned 
to coordinate the activities of all participating assets.
the osC shall be the most capable person available, taking into consideration saR training; communications 
capabilities of the asset; and the length of time that the asset the osC is aboard can stay in the search area. 
3.2 stages of a search and Rescue Response
3.2.1	 The	response	to	a	SAR	incident	usually	proceeds	through	a	sequence	of	five	stages.
3.2.2 these stages are groups of activities typically performed by the saR system in responding to a saR incident from 
the time the system becomes aware of the incident until its response to the incident is concluded. 
3.2.3 the response to a particular saR incident may not require the performance of every stage. For some incidents, the 
activities of one stage may overlap the activities of another stage such that the portions of two or more stages are 
being performed simultaneously.
3.2.4	 The	five	SAR	stages	are:
a)  a wareness
 Knowledge by any person or agency in the saR system that an emergency situation exists or may exist.
b) Initial action
 Preliminary action taken to alert saR assets and obtain more information. the stage may include evaluation 
and	classification	of	the	information,	alerting	of	SAR	assets,	communication	checks	and,	in	urgent	situations,	
immediate performance of appropriate activities from other stages.
c)  Planning
	 The	 development	of	operational	plans	including	plans	for	search,	rescue	and	final	delivery	of	survivors	to	
medical facilities or other places of safety as appropriate.
d)  operations 
 dispatching saR assets to the scene, conducting searches, rescuing survivors, assisting distressed aircraft, 
providing necessary emergency care of survivors and delivering casualties to medical facilities.
e)  Conclusion 
 Return of sRus to a location where they are debriefed, refuelled, replenished and prepared for other missions, 
return of saR assets to their normal activities and completion of all required documentation.
3.3 saR system alerting and Emergency Phases
3.3.1 the three Phases of an aircraft Emergency

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
19a
3.3.1.1 three phases of aircraft emergency have been established for classifying incidents and determining the actions to 
be taken for each particular incident.
3.3.1.2 they are, in order of progression:
uncertainty phase          INCERFa
alert phase                 aLERFa
distress phase                dEtREsFa
3.3.1.3	 The	emergency	phase	may	be	reclassified	as	the	situation	develops.
3.3.1.4 all reports concerning an incident must be carefully evaluated to determine their validity, the urgency for action, 
and the extent of the operation required.
3.3.1.5  the circumstances of occurrences that warrants each of these three Emergency Phases as appropriate shall be clearly 
described together with the sequence of actions required by the saR organizations in the saR operations manual 
of aRCC, mRCC, dmC and all sRus.
3.4 search and Rescue Planning and operations
descriptive procedures for search Planning, Rescue Planning and execution of saR operations in accordance with 
IamsaR manual shall be included in the saR operations manuals of aRCC and mRCC.
3.5 suspension or termination of operations 
3.5.1  the responsible RCC (as mutually agreed between aRCC and mRCC) shall decide when to suspend an aeronautical 
saR operation.
3.5.2 saR operations shall continue until all reasonable hope of rescuing survivors has passed.
 
3.5.3 the decision to suspend or terminate a saR operation shall not be made until a thorough review of the search is 
conducted. 
3.5.4 the review will focus on the probability: 
1)  of there being survivors from the initial incident,
2)  of survival after the incident,
3)  that the survivors were in the search area, and,
4)  the effectiveness of the search. 
3.5.5	 When	 an	RCC	considers,	on	the	basis	of	reliable	information	that	a	rescue	operation	has	been	successful,	or	that	
the emergency no longer exists, it shall terminate the saR operation and promptly so inform the NasC and other 
applicable	facility	or	service	which	has	been	activated	or	notified.
3.5.6 If the continuation of an saR operation becomes impracticable due to circumstances & adverse weather conditions 
and the respective RCC concludes that survivors may still be alive, the smC may temporarily suspend the saR 
activities pending further developments. Information subsequently received shall be evaluated and operations resumed 
when	justified	on	the	basis	of	such	information.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
20a
3.6        saR Incident documentation
3.6.1 RCCs shall establish mechanisms to document all incidents coordinated or responded by the respective RCC. the 
documents shall be kept safely as reference for a period of 10 years. statistical data and records of all incidents 
coordinated or responded by the RCC shall be made available for the public.
 
4.          International and Regional Cooperation
4.1 saR agreements
4.1.1 Policies on rendering assistance in foreign territories or territorial waters must balance concerns for saving lives, 
sovereignty and national security.  Provisions for territorial entry, as necessary, should be addressed in International 
Civil saR agreements and care should be taken to ensure that such agreements are compatible with National 
Policies in this regard.
4.1.2 any such international agreement may not be signed or otherwise concluded without prior consultation with the 
ministry of Foreign affairs.
4.1.3 Bilateral or multilateral saR agreements with other sri Lankan agencies or organizations, or with international 
authorities or organizations of other nations, may be of practical value for saR by:
	 Helping	to	fulfil	Sri	Lanka	domestic	obligations	and	needs;
 Enabling more effective use of all available saR resources;
 Better integration of sri Lanka saR services within the global saR system;
 Building mutual commitment to support aeronautical saR;
 Resolving saR procedures and sensitive matters in advance of time-critical distress situations; and 
 Identifying types of cooperative matters and efforts which may enhance or support saR operations (i.e., 
access to medical or fuelling facilities, training and exercises, meetings, information exchanges, use of 
communications capabilities and joint research and development projects etc.).
4.1.4    Negotiation and conclusion of such agreements should consider matters such as:
	 Which	authorities	of	the	Government,	agencies	or	organizations	concerned	should	be	involved	with	the	
agreement;
 Consistency with international and domestic civil saR principles or policies;
	 Whether	 other	treaties,	agreements	exist	which	should	be	superseded	or	accounted	for	in	preparation	of	a	new	
agreement; and 
 Relevant guidance of the IamsaR manual, National aeronautical saR Plan and other pertinent directives.
4.1.5  Participants who develop any agreement concerning aeronautical saR shall ensure that such efforts are coordinated 
with other interested Participants.
4.2        Cooperation with neighbouring saR authorities   
4.2.1	 When	 the	area	of	SAR	operations	is	near	or	at	the	boundary	between	international	Search	and	Rescue	Regions	(SRRs),	
the Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka (CaasL) and the merchant shipping secretariat shall be informed.  upon 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
21a
so informed,  Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka  through ministry of foreign affairs will liaise with neighbouring 
foreign RCCs in accordance with the relevant International saR arrangements and a determination made to best 
placed	SAR	Authority	to	assume	overall	coordination.	In	general,	the	following	procedures	reflect	the	international	
agreed approach to coordination near and across saR boundaries in saR arrangements.
4.2.2	 When	 the	position	of	the	aircraft	in	distress	is	known,	the	responsibility	for	the	initiation	of	SAR	action	will	be	that	
of the International RCC in whose sRR the aircraft is located.
4.2.3 the International RCC to assume responsibility for conduct of a saR action when the distressed aircraft’s position 
is unknown shall be the RCC responsible for:
 the sRR in which the aircraft was operating according to its last reported position; or
 the sRR to which the aircraft was proceeding if the last reported position was at the boundary of two sRRs; 
or
	 The	 SRR	to	which	the	aircraft	was	destined	if	it	was	not	equipped	with	suitable	two–way	radio	communication	
equipment or not under obligation to maintain radio communication.
4.2.4  If, after a saR action has been initiated, it is determined that the area of probability lies     across     the boundaries 
of two or more adjoining sRRs, the initiating RCC shall normally remain the responsible saR authority.
4.2.5   alternatively, where search areas are extensive, it may be agreed that aRCC/mRCC as the case may be coordinates 
search efforts in the sri Lanka sRR and the adjacent International RCC coordinates search efforts in the foreign sRR. 
should this be considered the preferable strategy, aRCC/mRCC may initiate the proposal to appropriate adjacent 
International RCC. 
4.3 Provision of entry of foreign aircraft during saR operations
4.3.1 the ministry of Foreign affairs shall take responsibility for organising the entry into and departure from the sri 
Lanka sRR, of foreign aircraft engaged in saR operations. If another saR authority becomes aware of a foreign 
aircraft being tasked to conduct saR operations in the sri Lanka region, they should inform the ministry of Foreign 
affairs immediately who will organise approvals and diplomatic clearances as necessary.
4.4 Requests for assistance from Foreign RCCs
4.4.1  the Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka (CaasL) being the aeronautical saR authority or the merchant shipping 
secretariat being the maritime saR authority of sri Lanka or the ministry of Foreign affairs may receive requests 
from foreign RCCs for the assistance of sri Lanka in saR operations.  If requests are received via other foreign 
organisations, the above relevant maritime or aviation saR authority of sri Lanka shall immediately establish 
communications with the RCC responsible for the area in which the incident has occurred to establish and arrange 
any assistance that may be required, whilst simultaneous action is taken to inform the ministry of Civil aviation, 
ministry of Foreign affairs and the ministry of defence as a matter of equal priority.
5.   Training and Exercises 
5.1 t raining requirements of saR coordinators and responders
5.1.1 overview

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
22a
5.1.1.1 t raining of key saR personnel is an essential component of contingency planning and preparedness. all personnel 
involved in saR response should be trained to an established baseline. Basic subjects should include:
	 Navigation;
	 Charting;
	 drift theory; and
	 saR Patterns.
5.1.1.2	 	Ideally	they	should	have	sufficient	training	to	fully	understand	their	responsibilities	during	a	SAR	response.
5.1.1.3	 Individual	members	will	be	given	training	tailored	to	their	specific	responsibilities	in	the	team,	from	management	
level to equipment operator level. 
5.1.2 saR Coordinator training 
5.1.2.1 saR mission coordinators and saRo’s (aasL and sLN) must conduct courses and certify its staff with regard to 
regulations laid down by the sri Lanka government.
5.1.2.2	 Staff	manning	the	RCCs	shall	be	sufficiently	trained	in	accordance	with	Chapter	3-IAMSAR	Vol.	1.	
5.1.3 saR Responder t raining 
5.1.3.1   the following topics are a guide to the types of training that are available to saR responders.
overview of National & International saR organization structure and positional responsibilities;
➢ Incident action Plans and the planning process cycle;
➢ t actical operations planning;
➢ Introduction to the National aeronautical saR Plan (NasaRP);
➢ Emergency Response organization structure and duties;
➢ Reporting procedures, requirements and responsibilities;
➢ Communications procedures during saR response;
➢ safe rescue helicopter operation including personnel safety, internal loading and slinging operations, hand 
signals and radio communication;
➢ safe working practices on small boats;
➢ First aid; and
➢	 Confidentiality	of	information	and	discussion	with	the	media.
5.2 Exercising the National aeronautical saR Plan
5.2.1 search and Rescue Exercises (saREXs) evaluate the thoroughness and effectiveness of the National aeronautical 
saR Plan under simulated conditions.  they also provide a learning experience to improve liaison and coordination 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
23A
skills. Exercises, conducted on a realistic basis, help to demonstrate and assess the true effectiveness of training 
and the operational efficiency and competence of the National Aeronautical SAR System.  Exercises will reveal 
deficiencies that may exist in the National Aeronautical SAR Plan and enable them to be improved.
5.2.2
 Important elements of capability to be tested are;
➢ Practicality (structure and organization);
➢ Communications;
➢ Equipment capability and response times;
➢ Adequacy of action plan; and
➢ Public, industry and media relations.
5.2.3 ARCC and MRCC shall conduct periodical training and exercises to continuously evaluate the capabilities of 
respective SAR organisations to revise and enhance the capabilities as necessary. 
5.2.4 ARCC and MRCC shall jointly plan and conduct a national SAREX annually to exercise and evaluate the coordinating 
agencies and organisations with SAR responsibilities.  The SAR Coordinators shall implement an impartial mechanism 
to evaluate, monitor and audit the National SAREX. 
5.2.5 ARCC and MRCC shall jointly present the details of the National SAREX to the preceding NASC meeting, with 
reviews and recommended evaluations.
5.2.6 Types of exercises to be considered include:
➢ Call-out of personnel who would be involved or contacted during a SAR case (including other government, 
non-government and department officers); and
➢ Table Top, Functional, and Full scale multi-agency exercises.
5.2.7 SAREXs involving tasking of assets will be conducted at sea or on-site using the resources that would be used in 
an actual SAR incident.  Hands-on experience with search patterns and techniques will be used where practical.
Annex 1: Sri Lanka Search and Rescue Region (SRR)
                  
  
Figure 3 :  R egional SRRs


<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
24A
Figure 4 : Sri Lanka SRR
Boundaries of Colombo FIR/SRR
100000N 0800000E -100000N 0820000E
060000N 9200000E -020000S 0920000E
020000S 0780000E - 060000N 0780000E
Annex 2:  Contact Details of MRCC, ARCC and The National Aeronautical SAR Committee. 
(a)
 Maritime Rescue Coordinating Centre (MRCC), Sri Lanka 
Tele: +94 11 2445368 
Tele: Colombo Radio 02: 0112423645
Colombo Radio fax +94 112424651
DGO WTR Office Telefax: +94 11 2441454
E-mail: -      
mrcccolombo@gmail.com
nhqdno@yahoo.com
(b)
 Aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre (ARCC), Sri Lanka
Aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre (ARCC)
Airport and 
Aviation Services Sri Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
Colombo International Airport
Ratmalana
Sri Lanka
Tel  
+94 11 2 625555
+94 11 2 611572
+94 11 2 634444
+94 11 2 623030 Ext:666 / 259 / 250


<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
25a
E-mail
arcccolombo@airport.lk
acc.ans@airport.lk
Fax: +94 11 2 635106
aRCC  In-Charge contact details:
smsar.ans@airport.lk
kiriatc.ans@airport.lk
mob   :   +94 76 824 2730
Fax					:			+94	11	2	635105	(during	office	hours)
 
(c)  ministry of defence 
 secretary ministry of defence,
 defence Headquarters Complex, sri Jayawardenepura, Kotte
 011 2381154
 011 2541 529
 secdefence@defence.lk
(d)  ministry of Ports, shipping & aviation
 secretary ministry of Ports, shipping & aviation
 19, 1 Chaithya Rd, Colombo 01
 t elephone: 0112 439 352
 secretary@portmin.gov.lk
(e)  Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka 
 director general of Civil aviation 
 152/1, minuwangoda Road (opposite Radar tower), Katunayake, sri Lanka.
 t elephone: 0112 358 802, 011 2252017
 Email: sldgca@caa.lk
(f)   ministry of Finance, Economic stabilization and National Policies
 the secretariat
 Colombo 01, sri Lanka.
 Phone : +94 112 484 500, +94 112 484 600, +94 112 484 700
 Fax : +94 112 449 823
 Email: info@mo.treasury.gov.lk
(g)   ministry of Health
 the secretary 
	 SUWASIRIPAYA,	No	385,	Rev.
	 Baddegama	 Wimalawansa	Thero	Mawatha,
 Colombo 10, sri Lanka.
 t elephone (general):
 (+94)112 694033, (+94)112 675011,
 (+94)112 675449, (+94)112 693493
(h)  ministry of Foreign affairs 
 the secretary 
 Republic Building,
 sir Baron Jayathilake mawatha,
 Colombo 01,
 sri Lanka.

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
26a
 t ele phone (general) 
 0112 325 372, 0112 325373, 0112 325 375
 Email: cypher@mfa.gov.lk
(i) Airport & Aviation Services Sri Lanka (Pvt) Ltd
      the Chairman 
      airport and aviation services (sri Lanka) (Pvt) Limited.
      Bandaranaike International airport,
      Katunayake,
      sri Lanka.
 t elephone: 0112264444
 Email:   chairman@airport.lk  &  comments@airport.lk, 
(j) disaster management Centre 
 director general
 Vidya mawatha, Colombo 07
 t elephone (general): 112 136 136,   Emergency:  0112 136 222 / 0112 670 002
 Email: dg@dmc.gov.lk
(k) ministry of Fisheries 
 the secretary 
 New secretariat maligawatta Colombo 10.
 t elephone: 0112 327 060
	 Email:	secfisherieslk@gmail.com
Abbreviations
   aasL -  airport & aviation services (sri Lanka) (Pvt) Ltd
   aIP -  aeronautical Information Publication 
   aRCC -  aeronautical Rescue Coordination Centre
                 CaasL -  Civil aviation authority of sri Lanka
                 dgCa -  director general of Civil aviation
                 ELt  -  Electronic Locator Beacon
IamsaR  -  International aeronautical and maritime search and Rescue
ICao        -  International Civil aviation organization
mRCC -  maritime Rescue Coordination Centre
mRo -  mass Rescue operation 
Notam - Notice to airmen
NasC -  National aeronautical search and Rescue Committee
RCC  -  Rescue Coordination Centre
RsC -  Rescue sub Centre
saR -  search and Rescue
SARO	 -	 Search	and	Rescue	Officer
saREx -  search and Rescue Exercise
sCPP -  saR Capability Partnership Programme
smC -  saR mission Coordinator 
sRR -  search & Rescue Region
sRu -  search and Rescue unit
utC -  Coordinated universal time

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
27a
Glossary
When	the	following	terms	are	used	in	this	document,	they	have	the	following	meanings;
Accident: an occurrence associated with the operation of an aircraft which takes place between the times any person boards 
the	aircraft	with	the	intention	of	flight	until	such	time	as	all	such	persons	have	disembarked,	in	which:
(a) a person is fatally or seriously injured as a result of
	being in the aircraft, or
	direct contact with any part of the aircraft, including parts which have become detached from the aircraft, or
	direct exposure to jet blast, 
except	when	the	injuries	are	from	natural	causes,	self-inflicted	or	inflicted	by	other	persons,	or	when	the	injuries	are	
to stowaways hiding outside the areas normally available to the passengers and crew; or
(b) the aircraft sustains damage or structural failure which:
	adversely affects the structural strength, performance or flight characteristics of the aircraft, and
	would normally require major repair or replacement of the affected component,
except for engine failure or damage. when the damage is limited to the engine, its cowlings or accessories: or for damage 
limited to propellers, wing tips, antennas, tires, brakes, fairings, small dents or puncture holes in the aircraft skin: or
(c) the aircraft is missing or is completely inaccessible.
Alerting post: any facility intended to serve as an intermediary between a person reporting an emergency and a rescue 
coordination centre or rescue sub centre.
Alert phase: a  situation wherein apprehension exists as to the safety of an aircraft and its occupants.
Distress phase: a  situation wherein there is a reasonable certainty that an aircraft and its occupants are threatened by grave 
and imminent danger and require immediate assistance.
Ditching: the forced landing of an aircraft on water.
Emergency phase: a  generic term meaning, as the case may be, uncertainty phase, alert phase or distress phase.
Incident: an occurrence, other than an accident, associated with the operation of an aircraft which affects or could affect 
the safety of operation.
Operator: a person, organization or enterprise engaged in or offering to engage in an aircraft operation.
Pilot-in-command: the pilot designated by the operator, or in the case of general aviation, the owner, as being in command 
and	charged	with	the	safe	conduct	of	a	flight.
Rescue: an operation to retrieve persons in distress, provide for their initial medical or other needs, and deliver them to a 
place of safety.
Rescue coordination centre (RCC): A 	unit	responsible	for	promoting	efficient	organization	of	search	and	rescue	services	
and for coordinating the conduct of search and rescue operations within a search and rescue region.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'08'28
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 28.08.2023
28a
Rescue sub-centre (RSC): a  unit subordinate to a rescue coordination centre, established to complement the latter according 
to particular provisions of the responsible authorities.
Search: an operation normally coordinated by a rescue coordination centre or rescue sub-centre using available personnel 
and facilities to locate persons in distress.
Search and rescue aircraft: An	aircraft	provided	with	specialized	equipment	suitable	for	the	efficient	conduct	of	search	
and rescue missions.
Search and rescue facility: any mobile resource, including designated search and rescue units, used to conduct search and 
rescue operations.
Search and rescue service: the performance of distress monitoring, communication, coordination and search and rescue 
functions, initial medical assistance or medical evacuation, through the use of public and private resources, including 
cooperating aircraft, vessels and other craft and installations.
Search and rescue region (SRR): An	 area	of	defined	dimensions,	associated	with	a	rescue	coordination	centre,	within	which	
search and rescue services are provided.
Search and rescue unit: a  mobile resource composed of trained personnel and provided with equipment suitable for the 
expeditious conduct of search and rescue operations.
State of Registry: the state on whose register the aircraft is entered.
Uncertainty phase: a  situation wherein uncertainty exists as to the safety of an aircraft and its occupants.
Eog 08 - 0274
priNTeD aT THe Depar TmeNT OF GOverNmeNT priNTiNG,  Sri laNKa.