

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
RANJITH ALUVIHARE FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Abdul Haleem, M. P. for Kandy District
on September 21, 2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 125]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on August 29, 2011)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 006255—850 (09/2011)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE RANJITH ALUVIHARE FOUNDATION
WHEREAS An Association called and known as the
“Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation” has heretofore been formed
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
all objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules  agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Association has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Ranjith Aluvihare
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the “Ranjith
Aluvihare Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be and become a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation” and by that name may sue
and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;
Incorporation
of the Ranjith
Aluvihare
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to give assistance, prizes and scholarships to needy
school children to enable them to continue their
education, encourage them to attend school
regularly, assist them  in their educational,
philosophical, religious, cultural and scientific
activities and to establish permanent and mobile
libraries ;
(c) to promote and protect Human rights, Human
values, fundamental freedoms, democracy and
pluralism in Sri Lanka;
(d) to promote sustainable development in rural and
remote areas by utilizing the natural resources
available in those areas;
(e) to promote agricultural, plantation and fishery
sectors by introducing latest technologies to obtain
maximum benefits;
(f) to establish information technology  centres island
wide for the advancement of scientific studies and
development of the country;
(g) to strengthen Institutes of higher studies, encourage
researches and scholarships for the advancement of
higher education;
(h) to promote social and cultural activities for
enriching the bond between different ethnicities
and for integrating the Sri Lankan communities;
(i) to empower women, children and the marginalized
groups such as persons with disabilities, the poor
etc.;
(j) to promote and encourage humanitarian, sports,
literature, aesthetic and spiritual activities;
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(k) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or caste
and to conduct various festivals and competitions ;
(l) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses for displaced persons and elders and
establish and maintain Children’s homes and day
care centres for children and elders ; and
(m) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of nine members including the
Chairman and  Secretary, Treasurer   elected in accordance
with such rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, former
Member of Parliament Honourable Ranjith Aluwihare shall
be the Chairman of the Board of Directors for life and
thereafter, a family member of the person who was holding
office as the Chairman shall become the next Chairman of
the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall, unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or  resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise moneys with or without security, to receive
or collect grants and donations, to invest its  funds, and to
engage and employ servants required for the carrying out of
the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by votes of
at least two-thirds of the members present and voting, to
make rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this  Act,
or any other written law, for all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership fees payable ;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Board of Directors, the quroum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties ;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors ; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
General
Powers of
the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be altered,
added to amended or rescinded in like manner at a like
meeting as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporations shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation for
any other purpose, be liable  to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to the Corporation.
Funds of the
Corporation.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
(Incorporation)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Audit and
accounts.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5
10
15
20
25
30
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which,
is or are by its rules prohibited from distributing an income
or property among its members.
12. (1) The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
cause proper accounts to be kept of all moneys received and
spent by the Corporation.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors  appointed by the Board of Directors.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation,  who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
14. Nothing contained in this Act  shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic,  or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those  claiming by, from or under
them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Ranjith Aluvihare Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .