

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
811
811
wxl 1"667 - 2010 wf.daia;= ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'08'13
No. 1,667 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 13, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 20th August, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th
August, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... 812
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 813
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The list of Jurors in Colombo High Court - 2009/2010 has been published in all three languages in Part VI of this Gazette.
Tamil version of this Gazette is printed separately.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
812
Appointments &c., by the Governors
APPOINTMENTS  MADE  BY  HIS  EXCELLENCY  THE  GOVERNOR  IN  THE  NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCE
UNDER  THE  SECTION  32(1)  IN  THE  IV  PART  OF  THE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  ACT,  No.  42  OF  1987
Serial Name/Service/Class/Grade The Post appointed/Office/
No. Effective date
01 Mr. D. M. K. C. Dissanayake For the post of acting Assistant Secretary to the Ministry of Health,
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class III Indigenous Medicine, Sports and Youth Affairs, North Western Province
with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 01.06.2010
02 Mr. A. D. Amarasiri For the post of Secretary to the Provincial Public Service Commission in
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class I the North Western Province with effect from 21.06.2010
03 Mr. H. M. B. P . Herath For the post of Senior Assistant Secretary to the Chief Ministry, North
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class I Western Province with effect from 21.06.2010
04 Miss A. A. U. Sakunthala Adhikari For the post of Assistant Secretary to the Ministry of Agriculture, Minor
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class III Irrigation, Agrarian Development and Animal Products and Development
in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 30.06.2010
05 Mr. J. M. R. P . Jayasinghe For the post of Deputy Municipal Commissioner of the Municipal Council,
Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Class I Kurunegala with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 30.06.2010
06 Mr. R. M. Ariyarathne For the post of Deputy Chief Secretary (Planning) in the Chief Secretariat
Sri Lanka Planning Service, Class I in North Western Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 07.06.2010
07 Mr. H. P . M. S. B. Pathiraja For the post of Accountant of the Department of Revenue in North Western
Sri Lanka Accountant Service, Class I Province with immediate effect in terms of the letter dated 28.06.2010
08 Mr. H. M. Sirimewan Herath For the post of Deputy Director of Agriculture in the Department in
Sri Lanka Planning Service, Class II/I Agriculture of North Western Province with immediate effect in terms
of the letter dated 16.06.2010
09 Mr. N. H. Wimalarathne For the post of Deputy Director of Agriculture in the Department of
Sri Lanka Planning Service, Class II/I Agriculture in Puttalam with immediate effect in terms of the letter
dated 16.06.2010
10 Mr. W. M. S. W anninayake For the post of Zonal Assistant Director of Agriculture in the Zonal Assistant
Sri Lanka Planning Service, Class II/II Agriculture Director Office, Galgamuwa with immediate effect in terms
of the letter dated 16.06.2010
11 Mr. D. A. Wanigasekara For the post of Deputy Director in the Department of Road Development
Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Class I in North Western Province with effect from 03.05.2010.
In terms of the order of His Excellency the Governor,
R. A. T
HILAKRATHNE,
Secretary to the Governor in the North Western Province.
At Governor's Office (North Western Province),
On 23rd July, 2010.
08–352

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
813
Provincial Councils Notifications
AYAGAMA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By –Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province,
Mahipala Herath, shall hereby notify under the power vested as
the relevant minister for the subject for me Article No. 2(1) of
Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the By-laws
which have been prepared by the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha under
the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local
Authority Act, No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected within the
limit of local authority from the date that notification appeared in
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
M
AHIPALA HERA TH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
July, 2010.
BY-LAW REGARDING THE REGULATION OF WEIGHT
AND SPEED OF VEHICLES AND DRIVING OF VEHICLES
1. This By-law may be cited as By-law for the regulation of the
weight and speed of vehicles and driving of vehicles in the roads of
Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. The purpose of imposing this By-law is to regulate and
administer the driving of vehicles, to impose driving speed limits
and weight limits and to minimize the damages caused to the roads
regarding the vehicles driving in the roads of Pradeshiya Sabha
Limits and not belong to the Authority and in the roads which are
declared to be Pradeshiya Sabha Roads within Ayagama Pradeshiya
Sabha.
3. (i) No person shall unless he possesses a permission issued
by the Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha and by paying
the charges specified in the First Schedule, drive a Tipper,
Lorry, Tractor, Road Construction machine or shall
transport stones, sand, or other building materials or
other minerals or productions related to Rubber of which
the weight is more than 2 Tons. Provided that timber
logs or other things shall not get drawn or shall not draw
by animals or by a tractor along this road.
(ii) Any vehicle without air filled tires and unless such
vehicle is loaded in other vehicle shall not drive in any
road in  Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. The maximum speed limit  along a road belongs to Pradeshiya
Sabha shall be 25 k.m. per hour.
5. (1) If any person expects to transport any building material,
agricultural product, timber or machines along a road
specified in the second article of this By-law, a written
request for that purpose shall be submitted to the
Chairman at least 3 days prior to the said transport.
(2) Where any request is received reference to the article
5(1) above, the Chairman shall call a report from the
technical officer  or from any other officer authorized
by the Chairman and shall obtain prescribed charges
and obtain a deposit security sufficient to the incur the
probable damages.
PANNALA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Entertainment  Tax  Ordinance
THE following resolution passed by the Pannala Pradeshiya Sabha
in terms of Sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the Entertainment Tax
Ordinance (Chapter 267) has been approved by the Minister of
Local Government in the North Western Province in terms of
Sub-section (2) of that Section and is hereby published in terms of
that Sub-section.
RESOLUTION
By virtue of the powers vested by Sub section (1) of Section 2
of the Entertainment Tax Ordinance (Chapter 267) the Pannala
Pradeshiya Sabha, hereby resolves to impose and levy, with effect
from the 01st day of the following month of the month in which
this resolution is published in the Gazette, a tax equivalent to Ten
per cent (10%) of the payment made for admission to Entertainment
defined in the Ordinance (other than Entertainment Tax) held in the
area within the administrative limits of the Council.
Provide that the tax levied upon a payment made to watch a film
shall be 7.5 per  cent of that payment within the first two years
within this resolution is in force.
A
THULA SARA TH KUMARA WIJESINGHE,
Chief Minister, Ministery of Finance
and Planning, Law and Peace, Local Government and
Manpower, Education and Cultural Affairs, Land,
Transport, Environment, Tourism,
Investment Co-ordinate,
Co-operative and Food supply and Distribution,
North Western Province.
Ministry of Local Government,
North Western Province,
30th April, 2010.
08–228

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
814
(3) The relevant permission shall not be issued unless
entering into an agreement after charging the prescribed
charges and security amounts under Article 5(2) above.
(4) Where any application is made for the release of the
security amounts deposited under Article 5(3) above,
first, the Departmental Charges of 10% shall be recovered
and then if a damage is caused, the said damage shall be
recovered after the assessment of the damage.
(5) If  the damage exceeds the security amount deposited, it
shall be lawful to require the said person to pay the said
additional amount also. Where the outstanding dues are
required to be paid, if any person fails to pay the said
outstandings, Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to
impose actions in a Competent Court of Law and recover
the said outstandings.
6. Contractors entered into agreement relevant to development
activities with Pradeshiya Sabha, shall be exempted from the charges
specified in the First Schedule hereto considering any written request
submitted to the Chairman by the said contractors.
7. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or Secretary of Pradeshiya
Sabha or any other officer authorized by them to implement the
power to inspect every permission issued under this By-law.
8. Every contravention of this By-law shall be an offence and
where any person is guilty of an offence under this By-law and on
conviction before a Magistrate with due jurisdiction, such person
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 750 and if the said offence
is committed subsequently and if such office is committed again
and again even after a written notice is served to the said person by
the Chairman or Secretary or any  other officer authorized by the
Chairman or Secretary, such person shall be liable to an additional
fine not exceeding Rs. 250 for each such date of commission of such
offence.
9. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala  and
Tamil texts, of this By-law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
10. Pradeshiya Sabha shall have the power to amend any subject
matter of this By-law from time to time.
11. For the purpose of this By-law, “Pradeshiya Sabha” means
Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha and, “Chairman” means the Chairman
of Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha and “Secretary” means the Secretary
of Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha and “other authorized officer” means
any other officer of Pradeshiya Sabha or a Grama Niladhari or
Police Officer.
F
ISRT SCHEDULE
1. Transportation of sand, soil and other minerals for one term
(cubes) :
For 1/2 cube Rs. 25.00
For 1 cube Rs. 50.00
For 2 cubes Rs. 100.00
For 3 cubes Rs. 150.00
for more than 03 Cubes, Rs. 10.00 for each additional cube.
2. Transportation of Fire-wood, Bamboo and Timber logs  :
For a tractor for one trip Rs. 200.00
For a lorry, tipper or truck for one trip Rs. 300.00
Drawing timber logs by elephants for a day Rs. 500.00 each
Other construction machines :
(Not being Chain Loaders) for a day Rs. 1,000.00
3. Transportation of Agricultural Materials :
Regularly or more than 05 days per month Rs. 200.00
Not regularly or not more than 05 days per
month Rs. 100.00
08–229/4
AYAGAMA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province
Mahipala Herath, shall hereby notify under the power vested as
the relavant minister for the subject for me Article No. 2(1) of
Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the By-laws
which have been prepared by the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha under
the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local
Authority Act, No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected within the
limit of local authority from the date that notification appeared in
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
M
AHIPALA HERA TH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province,
July, 2010.
BY-LAW  REGARDING  THE  REGULATION  AND
ADMINISTRATION  OF  PUBLIC  LIBRARIES
1. This By-law is enacted by Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha for the
regulation and administration of the Public Library Service by
providing various resources and services for the development of
the education, for the promotion of the interest of reading, for the
development of the discipline and personality of the people living
within the limits of Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. Public Libraries of Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha shall comprise
with several or all of the following sections according to the
necessities of the community living in the limits of Ayagama
Pradeshiya Sabha :–
(i) Books borrowing Section ;
(ii) Inquiries Section ;

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
815
(iii) Children's Section ;
(iv) Periodicals and Newspapers Section ;
(v) Academic Section ;
(vi) Books Preservation Section ;
(vii) Mobile and Branch Libraries ;
(viii) Other Information Services.
3. There shall be a Librarian in the Public Library of Ayagama
Pradeshiya Sabha and the Librarian so appointed shall be responsible
to the Pradeshiya Sabha regarding the proper maintenance of
organization and management of the Public Library.
4. Supervision and the General Administration of the Public
Library shall be vested to a Library Advisory Committee
(hereinafter referred to as "the Library Committee") :–
(i) This Committee shall be appointed annually by
Pradeshiya Sabha. It shall consist of the following
persons :–
• Chairman of Pradeshiya Sabha,
• Not exceeding three persons chosen from the
members of Pradeshiya Sabha,
• One agent representing each religion in the limit of
Pradeshiya Sabha,
• Not more than three distinguished persons residing
in Pradeshiya Sabha area who shall be appointed by
Pradeshiya Sabha,
• Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha,
• Community Relations Officer of Pradeshiya Sabha,
• Chief Librarian of Pradeshiya Sabha,
• A Principal of the Pradeshiya Sabha limit,
• A representative of Community Board in Pradeshiya
Sabha limit.
(ii) Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the ex-officio
Chairman of the Committee and he shall hold the chair
of every meeting of the Committee. In the event of
absence of the Chairman to any meeting, the members
present shall appoint a person to hold the chair from
among the members of the Committee.
(iii) The Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha shall be the convener
of the Committee.
(iv) Chief Librarian of the main Library of Pradeshiya Sabha
shall be the Secretary of the Committee.
(v) Quorum of the Committee shall be 1/3 of the members.
(vi) The person holding the Chair shall have a primary vote
and in the event of equal votes are casted for an against
any issue, the Chair Person shall have a conclusive vote.
5. Membership—
(i) Every person seeking the library services shall apply for
the membership by an application obtained from the
librarian by paying a charge prescribed by Pradeshiya
Sabha from time to time by a resolution and the said
application shall be certified by any of the following
persons :—
• Grama Niladhari of the area where the applicant
resides ;
• A Justice of the Peace ;
• A member of Pradeshiya Sabha ;
• Any staff officer in the Government Service or
Provincial Government Service ;
• If the applicant is a school student, the certificate of
the teacher in-charge of the class or certificate of the
principal of the school of the said applicant.
(ii) There shall have the following requirements to obtain
the membership of the library—
• To obtain the general membership, the applicant shall
be a resident or property holder or employee within
the limit of Pradeshiya Sabha.
• To obtain the school student membership, the
applicant shall be a person whose age is more than 5
years and learning in a school or Pirivena in the limit
of Pradeshiya Sabha.
(iii) Membership Fees—
For a general member, the annual membership fees
shall be Rs. 100. It shall be renewed by paying Rs. 30
per year.
The membership fees for school student members shall
be Rs. 50 and it shall be renewed by paying Rs. 15 per
year.
Provided that, the membership fee shall be prescribed
from time to time by Pradeshiya Sabha by a resolution
and with reference to the recommendation of the
Committee. At the same time, any fee decided by
Pradeshiya Sabha on the recommendation of the
Committee shall be charged from the persons who are
not the members of the library for the use of inquiry
section and other sections except the books borrowing
section.
(iv) Guarantors —
* Guarantors of school student applicants shall be their
mother/father/guardian/principal/teacher in-charge of
the class.
* A permanent Government/Provincial Government
officer or a distinguished person of the area/other
member of the family/tax payer shall sign as guarantors
for general members.
6.Two books can be borrowed by a permission issued for a
borrowing member of the library for one term and the said member
shall be responsible for every book borrowed by him.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
816
7. Any book borrowed by a member of the library shall be
returned to the librarian within 14 days of borrowing the said book.
8. Where any member fails to return the book to the librarian
within the period of 14 days specified in Article 7 of the By-Law,
Rs. 2.00 shall be charged for every day exceeding the relevant date
of submitting the book by a general member and Rs. 1.00 shall be
charged from school student member for the same being a fine or he
shall be subject to a fine imposed by Pradeshiya Sabha from time to
time by a resolution on the recommendation of the Library Advisory
Committee.
9. In the event of failing any member to return any book within
30 days after the expiration of period of 14 days, the said book
shall be deemed to be lost.
10. Where any such book is deemed to be lost, the relevant
member shall pay the value of that book and 25% of value of the
said book as a Departmental charge and he shall be subject to fines
specified in Section 8 of the Sub-constitution. The member shall
not make any damage or scribble in any manner to any book
borrowed by him.
11. It shall be the duty of every member to inform the librarian
regarding any damage or scribble already caused to the book which
is going to be borrowed. Where any member fails to inform the
librarian regarding any such damage or scribble, such book shall be
regarded as a book which was handed over to the said member
without any damage or scribble.
12. Where the librarian is of the opinion that any book handed
over to a member is in such a position that he has made damages or
scribbles and it is not suitable to re-issue, the said member shall be
subject to incur the expenditure to provide the said book again.
After the said new book is taken back, the damaged book shall be
given to the said member by putting the seal as "This book was sold
as a damaged book".
13. * Any book taken from the library shall not be alienated
by any member.
* Membership of any member who contravene the
provisions of Article 13(1) above shall be cancelled.
14. * No member shall return any book to the library if the
said member is aware that the said book was used by a
person suffering from a infections or contact disease.
* Where any borrowed book is used by a person
suffering from a infectious or contact disease, the said
book shall be destroyed and the said member shall pay
the amount to the librarian to provide the said book.
15. Where any dispute arise between two or more members
regarding to which member any book shall be given, the said dispute
shall be solved by the librarian.
16. Where any book which shall be given for any borrower is
required by any member, the said book shall be issued and if the
said book was issued at that time to other person, the librarian shall
write the name or names of the said applicant or applicants in a
waiting list and shall take steps to provide the said book to the
aforesaid applicants.
17. Books borrowing library shall be kept open from 9.00 a.m.
to 5.00 p.m. daily except on Sundays, on public holidays and on
such days the Committee may decide to calculate the stocks of
books after informing the members at least 07 days prior to the said
calculations of stocks. Provided that the times and dates of keeping
the library open may be altered on the discretion of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
18. Inquiry Section :
• Books in the Inquiry Section shall be used with the
permission of the librarian and after signing the register
kept in the Inquiry Section.
• Any library book, magazine, or any other ting issued for
reading shall not be taken out of the library by any
person. Provided that, if a photocopy service is in
progress, any person who is asking to bring the said
publication to take photocopies after paying the relevant
charges shall be given the said opportunity to take
photocopies under the approval and the guardianship of
the librarian.
19. Reading Hall :
• Reading Hall shall be kept open on every day from 9.00
a.m. to 5.00 p.m. or on the days and during times decided
by Pradeshiya Sabha. Reading hall can be used by anyone
and for that purpose, readers shall sign their names and
mention the time of arrival.
• Any person shall not make any damage to any
newspaper, periodical, magazine, map, or any other library
thing which is kept in the reading hall or owing to the
reading hall and the same shall not be taken out of the
library too.
20. No person shall —
• hold a miss-conduct or make any disturbance within the
public library premises or around the library ;
• make any damage or make any scribble to any building or
property of the library or building or property of
Pradeshiya Sabha ;
• stay or loiter in the library premises after the closing
times of the library ;
• take liquor, smoke or spit in the library premises ;
• gamble with dices or card packs ;
• make any hindrance to the users of the library by making
shouts, singing or making other sounds or using the mobile
phones, inside the public library ;
• enter the public library premises in dirty position ;

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
817
• take any animal into the library premises ;
• sleep or take any food within the library premises ;
• make any hindrance to the librarian or any person who
performs the powers legally under this By-Law acting on
the requirement of the librarian.
21. Any person suffering from any infectious, contact or skin
disease or recently suffered from such a disease or any person who
gave treatments to such a person shall not enter the public library
premises until the expiration of infections period.
22. Where any person is guilty of an offence for contravening
this By-Law, he shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 750 for
any act or omission of the said contravene and for any subsequence
offence, after conviction by a Court of Law having the jurisdiction
to determine the same, or after informing such person regarding the
said offence by the Chairman or any person authorized by the
Chairman, he shall be liable to an additional fine of Rs. 50 for each
day of committing of such offence.
23. In this By-Law, unless the context otherwise requires :-
"Chairman" means the Chairman of Ayagama Pradeshiya
Sabha and the "Secretary" means the Secretary of Ayagama
Pradeshiya Sabha and "the librarian" means the chief
officer incharge of public library of Pradeshiya Sabha or
any other officer acting in his post and who shall fall in to
the library service appointed by Public Service
Commission of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council ;
24. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil
text of this By-Law, the Sinhala Text shall prevail.
08-229/1
AYAGAMA    PRADESHIYA    SABHA
By  Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province
Mahipala Hearath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as
the relevant Minister for the subject for me Article No. 2(1) of
Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the By-laws
which have been prepared by the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha under
the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local
Authority Act, No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected with in the
limit of Local Authority from the date that notification appeared in
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
M
AHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province.
BY-LAW TO TAKE INFORMATIONS AND PERIOD
REPORTS RELEV ANT TO CHARGING TAXES WITHIN THE
LIMIT OF PRADESHIYA SABHA
1. This By-Law shall be cited as By-Law to take informations
and period reports relevant to charging a tax, rent or any other charge
by issuing a permission for trades, professions and industries within
the limit of Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This By-Law expects to regulate, control and maintain of
taking informations and period reports relevant to charging any tax,
rent or any other charges.
3. Provisions and conditions mentioned in this By-Law shall
come into operation on such date as they are published in the Gazette.
(a) This By-Law shall apply for businesses and industries
described in Schedule I and situated within Ayagama
Pradeshiya Sabha limit.
4. It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a trade or
industry referred to in the Schedule of Article 03(A), to furnish any
information or report required by Pradeshiya Sabha and which may
be necessary to charge any tax, rent or any other charges due and
owing to Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha from such trade or industry.
5. Where the Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha makes a notice,
advertisement or any other proper communication regarding the
informations and reports referred to in this By-Law, the said
informations and reports shall be sumitted to Ayagama Pradeshiya
Sabha by General Post or Registered Post or by hand within 30 days
of such notice. Every document submitted by hand shall be handed
over to the Secretary of Pradeshiya Sabha or any other officer
authorized by the Secretary.
6. It shall be the duty of Pradeshiya Sabha to acknowledge the
above trades and industries by way of a document receipt or any
other way that Pradeshiya Sabha received the said informations and
reports within 30 days referred to Section 30 above.
7. If the above informations are not received to Pradeshiya Sabha
within the aforesaid 30 days and if the said informations are required
to Pradeshiya Sabha, then there shall be an opportunity by this
Sabha to the Chairman or Secretary or any authorized officer of
Pradeshiya Sabha to reach the said trade or industry and demand the
said informations and reports or inspect the same.
8. Where any project/industry is initiated subsequent to the date
of publication of this By-Law, the owner or manager of the aforesaid
project/industry shall inform Pradeshiya Sabha regarding the said
project/industry prior to expiration of 30 days of such initiation of
project/industry.
9. In the event of any alteration of business/industry maintained
in the relevant place, such alteration shall be informed by the owner
or manager of the said place to the Chairman or Secretary of Pradeshiya
Sabha within 30 days of such alteration.

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
818
10. Where many businesses/industries and professions are
maintained in one place, it shall be the duty of the relevant
businessman/trader to furnish the relevant information separately in
conformity with the form specified in Schedule 02.
11. Any person who fails to cause the relevant informations or
reports during the prescribed periods to be submitted as required by
this By-Law and who fails to submit the same or submitting false
informations shall be guilty of an offence and on conviction before
Magistrate with due jurisdiction, such person shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding Rs. 750 and if the said offence is committed
subsequently and if such offence is committed again and again even
after a written notice is served to the said person by the Chairman or
Secretary or any officer authorized officer of Pradeshiya Sabha, such
person shall be liable to an additional fine not exceeding Rs. 250 for
each such date of commission of such offence.
12. Interpretation.– In this By-Law, unless the context otherwise
requires –
* "Sabha" means Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha and "Chairman"
means the person acting in the officer of the Chairman of
Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
* "Secretary" means the person acting in the post of Secretary
of Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
* "Authorized Officer" means any officer authorized by the
Chairman or Secretary of Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
* "Turnover" means every receiving by any trade, business
or industry.
* "Business" means any person, group of persons or institute
producing, supplying or selling any goods or services.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and
Tamil texts of this By-Law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
1ST SCHEDULE
* Hotels, canteens or accommodations registered or approved
or accepted by Sri Lanka Tourist Board.
* Electricity power plants approved by Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka.
* Factories.
* Garment Factories.
* Foreign Employment Agent Institutions.
* Supper Markets
* Registered Liquor Shops
* Private Transport Services Institutions.
* Driving Training Institutes.
* Every Financial Institutes Established for Depositing and
Lending Money.
* Insurance institutes.
* Audit Institutes.
* Private Medical Laboratories
* Independent Contractors Institutes
* Auctioneers and Brokers
* Gem Businessmen
* Concrete Working Sites
* Every other businesses registered under the Business
Registration Act.
02
ND SCHEDULE
1. Name of the owner :––––––––––.
2. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
3. Address :––––––––––.
4. Annual value of business place :
(i) Assessment No. :––––––––––.
(ii) Previous year annual turnover/receiving :––––––––––.
5. Nature of the business/industry/profession :––––––––––.
6. Productions supplied or produced by the business/industry.
(Particulars are given over leaf) :––––––––––.
7. Cadre employed in service :––––––––––.
8. Give details if the business/industry/profession is registered
under any other department or institute :––––––––––.
9. Other details :––––––––––.
I certify that the above all particulars mentioned by me are true
and accurate and not false.
–––––––––––,
Signature.
(Owner of the business/industry/profession)
Date :––––––––––.
08–229/2
–––––––––––––––
AYAGAMA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
By  Laws
I, as the Minister of Local Government at Sabaragamuwa Province
Mahipala Hearath to shall hereby notify under the power vested as
the relevant minister for the subject for me Article No. 2(1) of
Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 have approved the By-laws
which have been prepared by the Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha under
the power vested for it by the Article No. 122(1) 69/126 of Local
Authority Act, No. 15 of 1987 and shaped be connected within the

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
819
limit of Local Authority from the date that notification appeared in
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
MAHIPALA HERATH,
The Minister of Local Government,
Sabaragamuwa Province.
At Sabaragamuwa Province.
BY-LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATION AND
REGULATION OF PARKING OF VEHICLES
1. This By-Law may be cited as By-Law for the Administration
and Regulation of parking vehicles within Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha
Limit.
2. A certain place hereinafter referred to as "Public Parking Place"
may be reserved for parking of Motor Vehicles within Ayagama
Pradeshiya Sabha limit.
3. No person shall park any other vehicle which is not being a
motor vehicle in a Public Parking place.
4. No person shall park any motor vehicle in a Public Parking
place unless such person possesses a valid permission issued by the
Chairman for that purpose and obtained by paying such rates of
charges specified in First, Second and Third Schedules specified
below.
5. Every motor vehicle for which a permission is issued under
Section 4 of this By-Law shall be accompanied with the identification
number of the said motor vehicle and the said permission shall be
valid for such period specified in the aforesaid permission.
6. Where any Police Officer, Motor Vehicle Controller or any
other person authorized by the Chairman ask the owner or driver of
the vehicle to submit the permission issued regarding the parking of
said motor vehicle in a public parking, it shall be the duty of such
owner or driver of motor vehicle to submit he aforesaid permission
to be examined.
7. Where any public parking place is reserved for a specific group
or category of motor vehicles, no person shall park any motor vehicle
which is not belong to such group or category in the said public
parking place.
8. No person shall park any motor vehicle in a public parking
place making any hindrance to entering vehicles or leaving vehicles of
such public parking place.
9. Charges for parking motor vehicle specified in the Schedule
hereto may be exempted for parking of any motor vehicle belongs to
government department or body-corporate incorporated or not
incorporated.
10. This By-Law shall be in operation from 6.00 a. m. to 6.00
p. m. of each day.
11. The Chairman may suspend the operation of this By-Law on
any day by an order published in the Gazette and he may alter the
charges specified in the Schedule of this By-Law.
12. (i) No person shall wash any motor vehicle when such
vehicle is parked in a public parking place.
(ii) No repairer work can be done except a repairer work
which helps to remove the parking vehicle, when such
vehicle is parked in a public parking place.
13. No person shall take toxic drugs or shall engage in any business
in a public vehicle parking place.
14. Every contraventions regarding this By-Law shall be an offence
and if any person is guilty of an offence on conviction by a Court of
Law having the due jurisdiction, such person shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding Rs. 750 for that offence. If the said offence is committed
subsequently and if the said offence is committed again and again
even after a notice is served to the said person by the Chairman or
Secretary or any other authorized officer of Pradeshiya Sabha, such
person shall be liable to an additional fine not exceeding Rs. 250 for
each such date of commission of such offence.
15. In this By-Law :
* "Chairman" means the Chairman of Ayagama Pradeshiya
Sabha.
* "Sabha" means Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.
* "Motor Vehicle" shall have the same meaning given to any
"Motor Coach", "Motor Vehicle", "Lorry", "Bus",
"Tractor" and "V ehicle" by Motor Traffic Act (Chapter
203).
* "Vehicle controller" means any person authorized by
Pradeshiya Sabha who shall issue the permission to park
vehicles in a public parking place.
16. In the event of any inconsistence between the Sinhala and
Tamil texts, of this By-Law, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Chairman,
Ayagama Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'08'13
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.08.2010
820
1ST SCHEDULE
For the first For any half For any half
hour or any or any part or any part
part thereof of an hour of an hour
exceeding the exceeding
first hour and 4 hours
not more than
4 hours
Rs. c. Rs.  c. Rs.  c.
(a) For a Motor Cycle No No No
(b) For a Motor Coach or 20 0 10 0 10 0
Coach
(c) For a Tractor or 30 0 10 0 10 0
Lorry with a Trailer
(d) For a Tractor or 20 0 10 0 10 0
Lorry without a
Trailer
(e) For a bus 30 0 10 0 10 0
2ND SCHEDULE
For a month
Rs. cts.
(a) For a three wheeler for a month 150 0
(b) For a Motor Vehicle or Van for a month -
(i) If it is a vehicle operated with diesel 200 0
(ii) If it is a vehicle operated with petrol 200 0
(iii) If it is a small lorry for a month 250 0
(c) For a tractor with or without trailer 200 0
(d) For a bus 250 0
Persons who need a parking place always and who are living in the
city can reserve parking by paying the following amounts completely.
3RD SCHEDULE
Monthly Charges Annual Charges
Rs. Rs.
(a) For a tractor with or
without a trailer 200 0 2,000 0
(b) For a motor car or motor
coach 250 0 2,500 0
(c) For a motor cycle Not relevant Not relevant
(d) For a bus 250 0 2,500 0
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
4TH SCHEDULE
VEHICLE PARKING PLACES
1. In front of super market in the Ayagama bus station
2. Both side of Mr. Leele's shop at Ayagama bus station
3. From People's Bank to bridge on edge of right side along the
Ayagama Manana Road
4. Near the statue of Sarath Muththettuwegama in Ayagama
5. Right side from near the temple to bridge Ayagama
6. Left side near the Mr. Wimaladasa's shop
7. Towards the Gayana Saloon along the Idangoda Road
8. Left side from near the temple to co-operation in Ayagama
9. From right side to Maithree Mudalali's shop in Ayagama
10. Near the Ayagama Hospital
11. 300 feet in front of Samurdhi Bank near the fair
12. In front of Mr. Somapala's shop near the school in Ayagama
13. At the 1st mile post near the Mr. Danapala's house at Araporuwa
14. Right side front of the  Sumanawathi's shop at Madanagoda
15. Near the Mr. Sunil's shop at the junction of finehill state in
Udugala
16. Left side of Okanda bridge, Udugala
17. Edge of right side of the E. V . Shoshan Mudalali's shop at
Paragaha junction
18. Near the Pimburu bridge at right side Sirinandana shop
19. Near the Bo tree at Nikagoda Batamandiya junction
20. Left side of Mrs. Dayawathi's shop at Pallekade junction
21. Left side of Tea Kolaniya junction
22. Right side of Tea Kolaniya junction in front of Mr. Sunil's shop
23. Right side of Tea Kolaniya Kalumudiriya junction
08–229/3