

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 28.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 43]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on October 04, 2010)
ANIMAL WELFARE
A
BILL
to provide for the protection of animals from cruelty; to foster kindness,
compassion and responsible behaviour towards animals in the community;
to establish a National Animal Welfare Authority; to provide for animal
welfare generally; and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.
 Presented by Hon. (Ven.) Athuraliye Rathana Thero, M. P . for Gampaha
District on October 19, 2010

<!-- page 2 -->

1Animal Welfare
A N  A CT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  PROTECTION  OF  ANIMALS  FROM
CRUELTY ; TO  FOSTER  KINDNESS , COMPASSION  AND  RESPONSIBLE
BEHA VIOUR  TOWARDS  ANIMALS  IN  THE  COMMUNITY ; TO
ESTABLISH  A  NA TIONAL  ANIMAL  W ELFARE  AUTHORITY ; TO
PROVIDE  FOR  ANIMAL  WELFARE  GENERALLY ; AND  FOR  MATTERS
CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Animal Welfare Act,
No.    of 2010 and shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette:
Provided that the Minister may appoint different dates in
respect of different Parts of this Act.
PART I
O
BJECTIVES
2. The Objectives of this Act are—
(1) to recognize a duty of care on the part of persons in
charge of animals to treat the animals humanely and
to take all reasonable steps to ensure the wel-being
of those animals;
(2) to prevent cruelty to animals and to secure the
protection and welfare of animals, to prohibit certain
categories of conduct in relation to animals and
impose penalties for breach of the law;
(3) to establish a National Animal Welfare Authority
and to provide for regulations and codes of practice
for animal welfare ; and
(4) to raise community awareness on animal welfare.
Objectives.
5
10
15
20
Short title
and date of
operation.
2—PL 005203—125 (09/2010)

<!-- page 3 -->

Animal Welfare2
PART II
THE  NATIONAL  ANIMAL  W ELFARE  AUTHORITY
3. (1) There shall be established an Authority which
shall be called the National Animal Welfare Authority
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “Authority”).
(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.
4. The Authority shall consist of the following
members :—
(a) ten persons appointed by the Minister (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed members”) as follows:—
(i) six persons with wide experience in animal
welfare from among persons nominated by
Animal Welfare Societies and at least one of
whom shall be an Attorney-at-Law;
(ii)two persons with qualifications in veterinary
science nominated by the Veterinary Council
of Sri Lanka;
(iii)one person who is an Ayurvedic physician
with experience in treating animals, nominated
by the Ayurvedic Medical Council ; and
(iv) one person who is a professor or Senior
Lecturer in clinical veterinary sciences of a
recongnized University in Sri Lanka nominated
by the University Grants Commission ; and
(b) the following ex-officio members, namely :—
(i) the Director, of Wild Life Conservation or his
nominee;
Constitution
of the
Authority.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Animal
Welfare
Authority.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Animal Welfare
(ii)the Director of the Department of National
Zoological Gardens or his nominee;
(iii)the Director General of the Central
Environmental Authority or his nominee;
(iv) the Director General of the Department of
Animal Production and Health appointed
under the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1991
or his nominee;
(v) the Inspector General of Police or his nominee
who shall be not below the rank of Deputy
Inspector General of Police; and
(vi) the Director in charge of Public Health
Services in the Health Ministry or his nominee.
5. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Authority if—
(a) he is or becomes a member of Parliament or any
Provincial Council or any local authority; or
(b) he is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka; or
(c) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country, found or declared to be of unsound
mind; or
(d) he is an undischarged bankrupt or insolvent, having
been declared a bankrupt or insolvent; or
(e) he is seving or has, at any time during the preceding
seven years, served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other
country; or has at any time been found guilty by a
Court of law for any offence under any law relating
to animal protection or welfare whether in Sri Lanka
or any other country; or
Disqualification
from being a
member.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Animal Welfare4
(f) he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under any
contract made by or on behlaf of the Authority; or
(g) he has any financial or other interest that is likely to
affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Authority.
6. (1) An appointed member may resign his office by
letter addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall
be effective from the date on which it is accepted by the
Minister.
(2) The Minister may for reasons assigned remove an
appointed member of the Authority from office.
(3) Where an appointed member dies, resigns or is
removed from office, the Minister shall, having regard to the
provisions of Section 5, appoint another member in his place.
(4) A member appointed under subsection (3) shall hold
office for the unexpired part of the term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
7. Of the first appointed members, two shall hold office
for a period of two years, two shall hold office for a period of
three years, three shall hold office for a period of four years
and three shall hold office for a period of five years, as
specified in their respective letters of appointment. Members
appointed to succeed such members shall hold office for a
period of five years.
8. The members of the Authority shall be paid such
remuneration out of the Fund of the Authority at such rates
as may be determined by the Minister
9. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Chairperson and a
Deputy Chairperson of the Authority from among the
appointed members.
Resignation
and removal
of members.
Term of
office of
members.
Remuneration
of members.
Chairperson
and Deputy
Chairperson
of the
Authority.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Animal Welfare
(2) If the Chairperson or the Deputy Chairperson is by
reason of illness or absence from Sri Lanka, temprorarily unable
to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may appoint
another member of the Authority to act in his place.
10. (1) The Chairperson of the Authority shall preside
at every meeting of the Authority.  In the absence of the
Chairperson from any such meeting, the Deputy Chairperson
shall preside at such meeting. In the absence of both the
Chairperson and the Deputy Chairperson from any such
meeting, a member elected from among the members present
shall preside at such meeting.
(2) The quorum for any meeting of the authority shall be
seven members.
(3) The Chairperson or the Deputy Chairperson or other
member presiding at any meeting of the Authority, shall in
addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.
(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the Authority may regulate the procedure in regard to the
meetings of the Authority and the transaction of business at
such meetings.
11. No act, decision or proceeding of the authority, shall
be rendered invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy in the membership of the Authority or any defect in
the appointment of any member thereof.
12. (1) The seal of the Authority may be ditermined
and devised by the Authority and may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Authority.
(2) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of
such person as the Authority may decide from time to time.
Meetings of
the
Authority.
Acts not
invalidated
by reason of
vacancy or
defect in
appointment.
Seal of the
Authority.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 7 -->

Animal Welfare6
(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except with the sanction of the
Authority and in the presence of the Chairperson and one
other member who shall sign the instrument or document in
token of their presence.
(4) The Authority shall maintain a register of the
instruments and documents to which the seal of the Authority
had been affixed.
13. The Authority may delegate any of the powers and
functions of the Authority to the Chairperson, the Deputy
Chairperson, the Director, any Committee, any officer or any
other member of the Authority and any such person to whom
any power or function is so delegated, shall exercise such
power and discharge such function so delegated, subject to
the general or special directions of the Authority.
PART III
F
UNCTIONS  AND  POWERS
14. The functions of the Authority shall be—
(a) to advise the Government on the formulation of a
national policy on animal welfare;
(b) to implement the provisions of this Act;
(c) to advise the Government on measures for the
protection of animals and prevention of cruelty to
animals;
(d) to keep the laws relating to animal welfare under
constant review and advise the Government on
amendments to be undertaken to any such laws;
(e) to formulate codes of practice relating to animal
welfare which are consistent with internationally
Delegation of
powers and
functions of
the
Authority.
Functions of
the
Authority.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 8 -->

7Animal Welfare
accepted standards and best practices in
consultation with relevant Agencies and Bodies and
Animal Welfare Organizations;
(f) to create awareness of the objects and provisions of
this Act among Government agencies, provincial
authorities, local authorities, Animal Welfare
Societies, religious institutions, schools and other
educational institutions and the general public;
(g) to foster kindness and compassion and responsible
behaviour towards animals;
(h) to co-operate with animal welfare societies in
promoting the objectives of this Act;
(i) to encourage the formation and development of
animal welfare societies and to give financial and
other assistance to such societies for the furtherance
of the objectives of this Act;
(j) to advise the Government on appropriate standards
and measures relating to the medical care of animals
which may be provided in animal shelters and
elsewhere;
(k) to recommend legal, administrative or other reforms
required for the effective implementation of national
policy on animal welfare;
(l) to receive representations form the public relating
to animal welfare and where necessary, to refer such
representations to the appropriate authorities;
(m ) to monitor the progress of investigations and
criminal proceedings relating to offences against
animals;
(n) to take appropriate steps for securing the safety,
protection and welfare of animals;
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 9 -->

Animal Welfare8
(o) to advise and assist Government agencies,
provincial authorities, local authorities, non-
governmental organizations, animal welfare
societies, religious institutions and the general
public to co-ordinate campaigns against cruelty to
animals; and to advice on any matter connected with
animal welfare;
(p) to prepare and maintain a national data base on
matters pertaining to animal welfare;
(q) to supervise and monitor institutions which provide
animal care services, safety homes for animals and
animal shelters;
(r) to promote education in relation to the humane
treatment of animals and the promotion of animal
welfare;
(s) to liaise and exchange information with foreign
governments, international organizations and animal
welfare associations in other countries, with respect
to animal welfare and the prevention of all forms of
cruelty to animals;
(t) to keep and maintain a Register of Animal Welfare
Associations or Societies and Animal Shelters; and
(u) to establish special funds as provided for in this
Act.
15. The Authority shall have the power—
(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any
movable or immovable property;
(b) to borrow, with or without security, moneys, on such
terms and conditions as may be approved by the
Minister, for the purpose of discharging it’s
functions;
Powers of
the
Authority.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 10 -->

9Animal Welfare
(c) to accept gift, grants or donations whether in cash
or otherwise and to apply them for discharging its
functions;
(d) to establish committees at Provincial and District
level for the exercise of such powers and discharge
of such functions as may be delegated to them by
the Authority;
(e) to issue licences, permits and certificates of
competence for such purposes as are provided for
under this Act;
(f) to make appointments of staff of the Authority as
provided for under this Act;
(g) to establish a social security scheme, and provide
welfare and recreational facilities for its officers and
employees;
(h) to enter into and perform all such contracts, whether
in or outside Sri Lanka, as may be necessary for the
exercise of the powers and the discharge of the
functions of the Authority;
(i) to make rules in respect of the administration of the
affairs of the Authority;
(j) to establish shelters for the purpose of providing
care and custody to animals;
(k) to institute where appropriate, prosecutions for
offences under this Act; and
(l) to do all such other things as are necessary to
facilitate the proper discharge of the functions of
the Authority.
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 11 -->

Animal Welfare10
PART IV
STAFF  OF  THE  AUTHORITY
16. (1) There shall be appointed to the Authority a
Director, a Deputy Director, Assistant Directors, Animal
Welfare Inspectors and such other officers and emplyees as
may be considered necessary for the effecient discharge of
its functions.
(2) The power of appointment, transfer, dismissal and
disciplinary control of the Director, Deputy Director and the
Asistant Directors shall vest in the Authority.
(3) The power of appointment, transfer, dismissal and
disciplinary control of other officers and employees other
than those referred to in subsection (2) shall vest in the
director.
(4) The officers appointed under subsection (1) shall be
remunerated in such manner and at such rates and shall be
subject to such conditions of service as may be determined
by the Authority with the approval of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance.
(5) At the request of the Authority an officer in the public
service may, with the consent of the officer and the Secretary
to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to the
Authority for such period as may be determined by the
Authority with like consent, or be permanently appointed
to such staff.
(6) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the authority, the provisions of
subsection (2) of seciton 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply, to and in relation, to him.
Staff of the
authority.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 12 -->

11Animal Welfare
(7) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply, to and in relation, to him.
(8) Where the authority employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of sevice to the Authority by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such agreement.
17. The Director of the Authority shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Authority and shall in the discharge
of his functions of this Act in compliance with the policy and
directions of the Authority.
PART V
FINANCE
18. (1) The Authority shall have its own Fund
(hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”)
(2) There shall be paid into the Fund—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted by
Parliament for the use of the Authority out of the
Consolidated Fund;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act;
and
(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Authority by way of gifts, grants or donations from
any source whatsoever other than such sums as
may be paid into Special Funds established in terms
of section 19.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Director of
the
Authority.
Fund of the
Authority

<!-- page 13 -->

Animal Welfare12
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums as
are required to defray the expenditure incurred by the
Authority in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act or under any
other written law and all such sums as are required to be paid
out of the Fund.
19. There may be established by the Authority Special
Funds with monies received by way of gifts, grants or
donations from any source whatsoever, for special projects
or programmes aimed at providing support for animal welfare
measures including the establishment of animal welfare
centres, animal shelters, animal hospitals and other similar
measures and the provisions of sections 20 and 21 of this Act
shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such Special Funds.
20. Every donation made by money or otherwise to the
Authority shall, for the purposes of paragraph (b) of
subsection (2) of Section 31 of the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 38 of 2000 be deemed to be a donation made in money or
otherwise to a fund established by the Government.
21. (1) The financial year of the Authority shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.
PART VI
D UTY  OF  CARE
22. A person in charge of an animal owes a duty of care
to it.
Special Funds
for Animal
Welfare
Exemption
from certain
taxes.
Financial
year and
audit of
accounts.
5
10
15
20
25
Duty of Care
to animals.

<!-- page 14 -->

13Animal Welfare
23. Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions
of section 22, it shall be the duty of every person in charge
of an animal—
(a) to take all reasonable measures to ensure the well
being of such animal; and
(b) to prevent the infliction upon such animal of
unnecessary fear or pain; and
(c) to provide such animal with food, water, hygienic
living conditions, adequate living space and shelter
that is—
(i) appropriate; and
(ii)reasonably practicable for the person to provide.
PART VII
O
FFENCES  RELATING  TO  CRUELTY  TO  ANIMALS
24. (1) Any person who—
(a) beats, kicks, overrides, overdrives, overloads,
overworks, over-walks, tortures, terrifies or
otherwise treats an animal so as to subject it to
unnecessary pain or, being a person in charge of an
animal, permits the animal to be so treated; or
(b) uses an animal in any work or labour or for any other
purpose for which by reason of any disease, infirmity,
wound, or other cause, such animal is unfit to be so
used or, being the person in charge of the animal,
permits any such unfit animal to be so used; or
(c) trains an animal in a way that is detrimental to its
health and welfare, including forcing an animal to
exceed its natural capacities or strength; or
Cruelty to
animals.
10
15
20
25
5
Duty of
persons in
charge of
animals

<!-- page 15 -->

Animal Welfare14
(d) willfully and unreasonably administers any poison,
injurious drug or substance to an animal or wilfully
and unreasonably causes or attempts to cause any
poison, injurious drug or substance to be taken by
an animal; or
(e) conveys or carries an animal in such a manner or
position as to subject it to pain; or
(f) keeps or confines an animal in any cage or any place
which does not measure sufficiently in height, length
and breadth to permit the animal a reasonable
opportunity for movement; or
(g) keeps an animal for an unreasonable length of time
chained or tethered upon an unreasonably short or
unreasonably heavy chain or cord or keeps an animal
tied or bound or yoked in such a manner as to subject
it to pain; or
(h) being the person in charge of an animal, willfully
deprives an animal of food, water or shelter; or
(i) being the person in charge of an animal, kills the
animal or its off-spring unless it is a food animal and
the killing is in compliance with the provisions of
this Act or unless such animal constitutes a grave
and immediate danger to the public;
(j) being a person in charge of animal, abandons the
animal; or
(k) causes unnecessary pain to an animal by any other
willful act or omission,
shall be guilty of the offence of cruelty to animals and shall,
upon conviction after trial before a Magistrate be liable to a
fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 16 -->

15Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
30
Killing of
animal in
unnecessary
cruel manner,
an offence.
25. Any person who kills an animal in an unnecessarily
cruel manner shall be guilty of an offence and shall, upon
conviction after trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine
not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
26. (1) Any person who intentionally kills or knowingly
sells or delivers for killing any pregnant animal except when
the said animal constitutes grave and immediate danger to
the public, shall be guilty of an offence and shall upon
conviction after a trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine
not exceeding two hundred thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
(2) If in a prosecution for an offence under subsection (1)
the question arises as to whether the animal in relation to
which the offence is alleged to have been committed was
pregnant at the time of the commission of the offence, a
certificate under the hand of a Veterinary Surgeon to the
effect that the animal was pregnant at the time of the
commission of the offence shall be admissible in evidence
without proof of signature and shall, unless there is evidence
to the contrary, be proof of the facts stated therein.
PART VIII
P
ROHIBITED  CONDUCT
27. Without prejudice to the provisions of the Fauna
and Flora Protection Ordinance, no person shall, without any
reasonable excuse, set or cause to be set a trap to capture,
harm or kill an animal.
28. No person shall confine a bird by means of—
(a) a ring, chain, string, cord or wire attached to its leg;
or
Killing of
pregnant
animal, an
offence.
Setting traps
to capture
&c.,
prohibited.
Unlawful
confinement
of birds
prohibited

<!-- page 17 -->

Animal Welfare16
(b) a restraint around its neck or body; or
(c) pinioning.
29. No person shall use an animal to test cosmetics,
cosmetic ingredients or cosmetic products.
30. No person shall castrate or sterilize an animal or cause
an animal to be castrated or sterilized, unless such castration
or sterilization is performed by or under the supervision of a
Veterinary Surgeon.
31. No person shall sell or offer for sale or contract to
sell any animal which is in pain by reason of illness, disease,
mutilation, starvation, thirst, overcrowding or ill-treatment,
except for the purpose of medical treatment and care.
32. No person shall keep for sale or display for sale any
animal in such circumstances as would, cause pain or distress
to the animal.
33. No person shall make an animal available in any
manner whatsoever for the purpose of being hunted, injured
or killed by another animal.
34. No person shall carry on the business of breeding or
trading in animals without obtaining a licence therefor as
required by law.
35. Any person who acts in contravention of any of the
prohibitions contained in sections 27 to 34 shall be guilty
of an offence and shall, upon conviction after trial before a
5
10
15
20
Use of
animals for
testing
cosmetics
&c.,
prohibited.
Unlawful
castration or
sterilization
of animals
prohibited.
Unlawful sale
of animal
suffering pain
prohibited.
Unlawful
keeping or
displaying of
animal for
sale
prohibited
Making
available an
animal for
hunting &c.,
prohibited.
Unlawful
breeding or
trading
prohibited.
Punishment
for engaging
in prohibited
conduct.

<!-- page 18 -->

17Animal Welfare
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year
or to both such fine and imprisonment.
36. (1) No person shall participate in, organize, manage,
facilitate or advertise any of the following events (hereinafter
called “a prohibited event”):—
(a) sport-hunting or any other kind of recreational sport
involving injury to or destruction of the lives of
animals;
(b) any shooting match or competition in which animal
is released from captivity for the purpose of shooting
or hunting that animal; or
(c) any sporting event or entertainment that involves
the confining of any animal (including tying of an
animal) so as to make it an object of prey for any
other animal or inciting any animal to fight any
other animal.
(2) No person shall knowingly permit any premises of
which he is the owner or of which he is in charge, to be used
for a prohibited event.
(3) No person shall knowingly supply or train any animal
for a prohibited event.
(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions of any
of the foregoing sub sections shall be guilty of an offence
and shall upon conviction after trail before a Magistrate be
liable to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
37. (1) No person shall slaughter or cause or permit to
be slaughtered—
(a) any buffalo or buffalo calf; or
Prohibited
events.5
10
15
20
25
30
Slaughter of
buffaloes,
cows and
bulls an
offence.
Penalty.

<!-- page 19 -->

Animal Welfare18
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) any cow or cow calf; or
(c) any bull or bull calf.
(2) In this section the expression “buffalo” includes both
a male and female buffalo and the expression “buffalo calf”
includes both a male and female buffalo calf.
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an offence, and shall upon
conviction after a trail by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
38. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
any other law with regard to the grant of licenses for the
slaughter of any quadruped, no person shall slaughter or
cause to be slaughtered a quadruped in a private dwelling
house or a place of business or a public place.
(2) No person shall slaughter any quadruped where the
meat or any part of the carcass of the quadruped is meant to
be sold or distributed for any purpose whatever unless such
person holds a certificate of competence in the slaughter of
animals issued or recognized by the Authority.
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of an offence and shall upon
conviction after a trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a
fine not exceeding twenty thousand rupees or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
"public place" for the purposes of this section includes
any way, road, lane, square, court, alley, passage or
open space whether a thoroughfare or not and any
building to which the general public have access.
Conditions
regarding
slaughter of
quadrupeds.

<!-- page 20 -->

19Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
PART  IX
TRANSPORT  OF  ANIMALS
39. No person shall convey, carry or transport, or cause
to be conveyed, carried or transported any animal in such a
manner as to subject such animal to unnecessary pain.
40. Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing
provision, it shall be the duty of any person who conveys,
carries or transports any animal to ensure the following:—
(a) that injury to such animal during loading and
unloading is avoided;
(b) that the animal is provided adequate space, air,
hygienic conditions and reasonable comfort during
the period of transit from the time of loading to the
time of unloading;
(c) that no animal which is —
(i) ill;  or
(ii) pregnant and is reasonably likely to give birth
in transit or within forty eight hours thereafter,
is so conveyed, carried or transported, other than
for purposes of medical treatment or the animal’s
own safety;
(d) that any vehicle used in the conveyance, carriage or
transportation of the animal has —
(i) facilities for the easy observance and
inspection of the animal carried therein; and
(ii) a ramp to load and unload such animal in a
humane manner;
Subjecting
animal to
unnecessary
pain during
transport,
prohibited.
Duties during
transport of
animals.

<!-- page 21 -->

Animal Welfare20
5
10
15
20
25
30
(e) that the floor of any vehicle used in such
conveyance, carriage or transportation is free from
holes or cracks likely to cause injury to any animal;
(f) that any vehicle used in such conveyance, carriage
or transportation has adequate covering so as to
give the animal such protection as is appropriate to
the circumstances having regard to the type of animal
being transported, the distance to be covered and
the environmental factors such as the weather,
temperature and terrain;
(g)  that no animal prone to aggressiveness is conveyed,
carried or transported together with other animals
unless adequate precaution is taken to prevent such
animal attacking or causing harm or injury to such
other animals;
(h) that such conveyance, carriage or transportation
from the point of loading to the point of unloading
is carried out without unnecessary delay and without
confining any animal for an unreasonable period of
time;
(i) that where, conditions of transport require that an
animal be deprived of food and water during
transport care is taken to ensure that the journey is
not longer than the animal can endure without food
or water;
(j) that where practicable during long journeys
sufficient stops are made to enable the animal to be
given rest, food and water and to attend to its
hygiene.
41. (1) Any person who fails to comply with or
contravenes the provisions of sections 39 or 40 shall be
guilty of an offence and shall upon conviction after trial by
Penalty.

<!-- page 22 -->

21Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
30
a Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
one year or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(2) Upon the conviction of any person for an offence
under this Part, the Magistrate may, in addition to any
sentence imposed under sub section (1) and subject to the
provisions of sub section (3) make an order forfeiting the
vehicle which was used in the commission of the offence
and the animal or animals therein.
 (3) Where the owner of the vehicle is a third party not
being the spouse or child of the person convicted, an Order
of forfeiture under paragraph (2) shall be made only after
giving notice to such owner to show cause why such an
Order should not be made and no such Order shall be made
if the owner establishes to the satisfaction of the Court that
he had taken all precautions to prevent the use of the vehicle
in the commission of the offence or that the vehicle has been
used therefore without his knowledge :
Provided that where the vehicle belongs to a person whose
vehicle has been used for the commission of an offence for
the third time, the Magistrate shall make an order forfeiting
such vehicle.
(4) Any vehicle or animal forfeited to the State by an order
of court shall—
(a) if no appeal is preferred against such order, vest
absolutely in the State with effect from the date on
which the period prescribed for preferring an appeal
against such order expires; and
(b) if an appeal has been preferred against such order,
vest absolutely in the State with effect from the date
on which the order is finally affirmed on appeal.
(c) be dealt with in terms of the provisions of this Act.

<!-- page 23 -->

Animal Welfare22
5
10
15
20
25
PART  X
U
SE  OF  LIVE  ANIMALS  FOR  SCIENTIFIC  PURPOSES
42. (1) No person shall use live animals for teaching or
research or experimentation unless such person has obtained
a permit for the said purpose from the Authority.
(2) In issuing a permit, the Authority shall have regard,
amongst other considerations that it considers relevant, to
the availability of alternative methods and devices that do
not involve experimentation on live animals, including
computer simulations and other audio-visual methods,
synthetically produced models, ethically sourced cadavers
and clinical experiences.
(3) The Authority may refuse to issue a permit upon being
satisfied that such research can be carried out or such
teaching or experimentation can be performed using such
alternatives as are referred to in subsection (2).
PART  XI
I
NVESTIGA TION  AND  PROSECUTION
43. All investigations under this Act shall, unless
otherwise provided herein, be conducted in compliance with
the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act , No. 15
of 1979.
44. A Police officer not below the rank of Inspector of
Police or an Inspector may, after obtaining a Warrant
therefore:—
(a) enter and inspect any premises where he has reason
to believe that an offence under this Act has been
committed, is being committed or is about to be
committed;
Use of live
animals for
experiments
&c.,
Applicability
of Code of
Criminal
Procedure
Act for
investigations.
Search &c.,

<!-- page 24 -->

23Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
(b) examine any books, registers or records relating to
animals maintained at such premises;
(c) question any person in any such premises with
regard to the commission or imminent commission
of an offence under this Act:
Provided that, where upon information received, a Police
Officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Police or an
Inspector is of the view that it is urgently necessary to take
any of the above steps to prevent the commission or
continued commission of an offence, or to prevent the
destruction of any document or other thing that may
constitute evidence of the commission of an offence under
this Act, or to ensure the welfare of any animal, it shall be
lawful for such Police officer or Inspector to take any of the
above steps before obtaining a warrant and such Inspector
or Police Officer shall, within twenty four hours of having
taken such step, submit to Court a report on the steps taken
and the reasons which warranted the taking of such steps
without obtaining a warrant.
45. (1) Where, after investigation, an Inspector has
reasonable grounds to believe that an animal —
(a) is not being cared for;
(b) is not being provided with adequate food, water
and shelter;
(c) is experiencing pain;
(d) requires veterinary treatment; or
(e) is being worked while unfit for work,
Issue of
Animal
Welfare
Directions by
Inspectors.

<!-- page 25 -->

Animal Welfare24
5
10
15
20
25
30
he may issue a written direction to the person in charge of
the animal requiring that person to take remedial steps and
in particular to do one or more of the following:—
(i) to care for or treat the animal in the manner stated
in the direction;
(ii) to provide the animal with food, water, rest, shelter
or other living conditions stated in the direction;
(iii) to consult a Veterinary Surgeon about the animal’s
condition by a date or time stipulated in the
direction;
(iv) to relocate the animal for any of the purposes stated
in sub-paragraphs (i), (ii) or (iii) above; or
(v) to refrain from moving the animal from the place
where it is kept until a stipulated time or the
happening of a stipulated event.
(2) Such a direction shall be called an Animal Welfare
Direction and shall be in the form set out in the Schedule
hereto.
(3) Nothing contained in sub section (1) shall prevent the
Inspector himself from taking any of the remedial steps
mentioned in subsection (1) where such Inspector is of the
opinion that it is in the best interests of the animal to do so. In
such an event the Inspector shall record his reasons for taking
such steps and shall forthwith make an entry to that effect at
the Police Station of the area.
(4) A person who fails to comply with a direction given
under sub section (1) without reasonable cause shall be guilty
of an offence and shall upon conviction after trial by a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand
rupees or to imprisonment for a term of three months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

<!-- page 26 -->

25Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
30
(5) The issue of a direction under this section in respect
of any act or omission shall not by itself prejudice the
institution of a prosecution for an offence under this Act in
respect of such act or omission.
46. A Magistrate may, upon application made therefore
by a Police Officer or Inspector, or on his own motion, make
order that any animal in respect of whom an offence is alleged
to have been committed, is being committed or is likely  to
be committed, be placed in the care and custody of a suitable
person, a State Farm, animal shelter or other suitable
Institution who or which is willing to take custody of such
animal, upon being satisfied that it is necessary to do so to
prevent the continued commission of an offence or for the
purpose of providing such animal with necessary care or
medical treatment.
47. Any person who obstructs or resists an Inspector or
Police Officer in the exercise of any powers under this Act
shall be guilty of an offence and shall upon conviction after
a trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
three thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
48. A prosecution for an offence under this Act may be
instituted:—
(a) by a peace officer; or
(b) by the Authority; or
(c) upon a complaint made to a Magistrate having
jurisdiction in terms of the provisions of Section
136 (1) (a) of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act
No. 15 of 1979.
49. It shall be lawful for a Magistrate to try summarily
any offence under this Act or any regulation made there
under and to impose punishments prescribed in respect of
the same notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in any other law.
Placing
animals in
shelter & c.
during
investigation
and trial to
ensure its
welfare.
Obstructing a
Police
Officer,
Inspector, an
offence.
By whom
prosecutions
can be
instituted.
Offences
triable
summarily.

<!-- page 27 -->

Animal Welfare26
5
10
15
20
25
50. (1) Where any person is convicted of an offence in
relation to an animal under this Act the Magistrate may, in
addition to any punishment that may be imposed, made Order
for—
(a) the forfeiture of the animal or animals in respect of
which the offence was committed;
(b) the forfeiture of any weapon, instrument or vehicle
used in the commission of the offence; or
(c) the re-imbursement of expenses incurred by any
person or institution in whose care and custody
any animal was placed in terms of the provisions of
this Act.
(2) The Magistrate in making an Order under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) may direct that the  care and custody of
the animal be given to a suitable person , a State Farm, animal
shelter or other suitable institution with the consent of such
person or the person in charge of such Farm, shelter or other
institution, as the case may be.
(3) The provisions of subsections (3) and (4) of section
41 shall mutatis mutandis apply to an Order for the forfeiture
of a vehicle, under paragraph (b) of subsection (1).
PART  XII
M ISCELLANEOUS
51. (1) The Minister may make regulations giving effect
to the principles and provisions of this Act.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the foregoing power, the Minister may make regulations
in respect of any of the following matters:—
(a) the maximum load to be carried or drawn by any
animal;
Forfeiture,
re-
imbursement
of expenses,
after
conviction.
Regulations.
30

<!-- page 28 -->

27Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
(b) the conditions to be observed for preventing the
overcrowding of animals in any vehicle, cage or
enclosure;
(c) regulating the use of any type of bit or harness;
(d) regulating the conduct of the business of a farrier;
(e) the precautions to be taken in the capture of animals;
(f) the conditions and means under which animals may
be transported;
(g) conditions relating to aquaria;
(h) breeding, vaccinating and sterilizing of animals;
(i) conditions relating to farm animals including
conditions and practices relating to poultry;
(j) boarding kennels, hotels for pets and other similar
institutions run on a commercial basis;
(k) conditions relating to performing animals;
(l) conditions relating to pet shops;
(m ) conditions and practices relating to
slaughterhouses;
(n) stray animals;
(o) conditions relating to animals in theme parks;
(p) conditions relating to animals in captivity;
(q) conditions relating to experiments on animals;
(r) conditions relating to pest control.

<!-- page 29 -->

Animal Welfare28
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament. Any Regulation which is not approved by
the Parliament shall be deemed to be rescinded from the date
of disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.
52. Where an animal becomes a subject of Court
proceedings, it shall be lawful for the Authority, an Inspector
or a person authorized by an Animal Welfare Society to
intervene in the Court proceedings to safeguard the interests
of the animal.
53. Every person who contravenes any provision of this
Act or any Regulation made therunder  shall be guilty of an
offence.
54. Every person who commits an offence under this
Act or under any Regulation made thereunder for which no
punishment is  expressly provided, shall on conviction after
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
five thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
55. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then—
(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director or officer of that body corporate; and
(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm,
Right of
intervention
in cases
involving
animals.
Contravention
of provisions
of Act or
Regulation,
an offence.
Penalty for
offences
where not
expressly
provided.
Offences
committed
by a body of
persons.

<!-- page 30 -->

29Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
30
Shall be deemed to be guilty of such offence:
Provided that a director or an officer of such body corporate
or partner of such firm shall not be deemed to be guilty of
such offence if he establishes that such offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he exercised due diligence to
prevent the commission of such offence.
56. Any person who abets the commission of an offence
or attempts or conspires to commit an offence under this Act
shall be guilty of an offence and shall upon conviction be
liable to the same punishment as is provided for the offence.
57. No prosecution for an offence committed under this
Act shall be instituted after the expiration of twelve months
from the date of the commission of the offence.
58. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to pest
control activities or to any reasonable measures taken to
safeguard human life or property.
59. (1) The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Ordinance,
No. 13 of 1907 is hereby repealed. All prosecutions
commenced under the said Ordinance and pending as at the
date of its repeal shall be continued and completed under the
provisions of the said Ordinance as if it were still in force.
(2) All regulations, proclamations, orders and
notifications issued or made under the Prevention of Cruelty
to Animals Ordinance and in force on the day preceding the
date on which this Part of this Act comes into operation
shall, in so far as they are not inconsistent with this Act,
continue to remain in force and shall be deemed to have
been issued or made under this Act and shall so remain in
force until repealed or rescinded under this Act.
60. Section 38 of the Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958 (as
amended by Act, No. 46 of 1988) is hereby further amended
Abetting &c.,
an offence.
Limitation of
time for
prosecution.
Exemptions.
Repeal of
Ordinance,
No. 13 of
1907.
Definition of
"animal"
under Section
38 of the
Animals Act.

<!-- page 31 -->

Animal Welfare30
5
10
15
20
25
30
by the repeal of the definition of "animal" and the
substitution, of the following definition therefore:—
"animal" means neat cattle (ela haraka) or buffalo and
in section 3C  and Part IV , includes a sheep, goat,
pig or poultry."
61. In the event of inconsistency between the provisions
of this Act and any other Act relating to animals, the
provisions of this Act shall prevail.
PART  XIII
G
ENERAL
62. (1) For the purpose of enabling the Authority to
exercise, perform and discharge any of the functions, powers,
and duties under section 14 and section 15 of this Act, the
Authority or any person authorized in that behalf by the
Authority may by notice in writing require any person to
furnish to the Authority or to the person authorized, within
such period as shall be specified in the notice, information
pertaining to any animal as may be specified.
(2) It shall be the duty of any person who is required to
furnish any information by a notice under subsection (1) to
comply with such requirement within the period specified in
such notice, except where such person is precluded from
divulging such information under the provisions of any law.
(3) No member, officer or employee of the Authority shall
disclose to any person outside the Authority and other than
for the purposes of the Authority any information furnished
under subsection (1) except when required so to do by a
court of law.
63. The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.
This Act to
prevail in the
event of
inconsistency
with other
Acts relating
to animals.
Authority
may call for
information.
Authority to
be a scheduled
institution
within the
meaning of
the Bribery
Act.

<!-- page 32 -->

31Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
30
64. All members, officers and servants of the Authority
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code.
65. (1) Where any immovable property of the State is
required for any purpose of the Authority, such purpose shall
be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or lease
of such property may be made under section 6 of the Crown
Lands Ordinance and accordingly the provisions of that
Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of such
property to the Authority.
(2) Where any movable property of the State is required
for any purpose of the Authority, the Minister may, by Order
published in the Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Authority
the possession and use of such movable property:
Provided however, that no Order affecting any movable
property of the State shall be made by the Minister under the
preceding provisions of this subsection, without the
concurrence of the Minister having control over such
property.
66. (1) Where any immovable property is required to be
acquired for any specific purpose of the Authority and the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette approves of the
proposed acquisition for that purpose that property shall be
deemed to be required for a public purpose and may
accordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and
transferred to the Authority.
(2) Any sum payable, for the acquisition of any immovable
property under the Land Acquisition Act for the Authority
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority.
67. (1) No suit or prosecution shall be instituted —
(a) against the Authority, for any act, which in good
faith is done or purported to be done by the
Authority under this Act; or
Members,
officers and
servants of
the Authority
deemed to be
public
servants.
Acquisition
of
immovable
property
under the
Land
Acquisition
Act.
State
property
both movable
and
immovable
to be made
available to
the
Authority.
Protection for
action taken
under this Act
or on the
direction of
the Authority.

<!-- page 33 -->

Animal Welfare32
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) against any member, officer or employee of the
Authority for any act which in good faith is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or on
the direction of the Authority.
(2) Any expenses incurred by any such person as is
referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), in any suit or
prosecution instituted against him in respect of any act which
is done or purported to be done by him under this Act or on
the direction of the Authority shall be paid out of the Fund of
the Authority, if the Court holds that such act was done in
good faith.
68. The Minister may, require or direct the Authority to
furnish to the Minister, in such form as the Minister may
require, returns, accounts and other information with respect
to the work of the Authority and the Authority shall carry out
every such direction.
69. The Authority shall publish in the national
languages, within four months after the end of each financial
year of the Authority and make to the Minister a report on the
exercise and performance by the Authority of its powers and
duties during that year and on its policy and programme.
The Minister shall lay a copy of such report before Parliament.
PART XIV
I
NTERPRETATION
70. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
"animal" means any living being other than a human-
being and includes a domestic animal, a farm animal,
an animal in captivity, a wild animal, a companion
animal, a stray animal and a food animal as
hereinafter defined;
"animal in captivity" means an animal kept in a zoo
or circus or other situation of confinement, whether
Furnishing of
information
to the
Minister.
Annual
Report.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 34 -->

33Animal Welfare
5
10
15
20
25
for work or ceremonial or any other purpose, other
than a domestic animal or a farm animal;
"animal shelter" means a shelter or infirmary or any
other location or transit point used for safe keeping
and maintenance of animals;
"Authority" means the National Animal Welfare
Authority established under Part II of this Act;
"Ayurvedic Medical Council" means the Ayurvedic
Medical Council extablished by the Ayurvedic
Medical Council Act, No. 31 of 1961;
"cage" includes a pen, kennel, hutch and other similar
receptacle;
"Central Environmental Authority" means the Central
Environmental Authority established by the
National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980;
"Chairperson" means the Chairperson of the Authority
appointed under Section 9 of this Act;
"companion animal" includes an animal kept as a guide
or a pet;
"confine" in relation to an animal, means to restrict
its freedom of movement including—
(a) by enclosure in a cage, pit, yard, field or other
enclosure serving to restrict freedom of access
and movement; and
(b) by pinioning, tethering or other manner of
restraint;
"Director" means Director appointed under this Act
and includes a Deputy Director and an Assistant
Director;

<!-- page 35 -->

Animal Welfare34
5
10
15
20
25
"domestic animal" means—
(i) an animal of a species commonly kept as pets,
whether or not that animal is being kept as a
pet at the relevant time;
(ii) an animal of any species if that animal has
been or is being kept as a pet;
(iii) an animal used for riding, racing, transport,
work, breeding or display;
(iv) an animal used as a guard or guide or
companion animal;
"farm animal" means an animal kept or used for
agricultural or dairy or livestock purposes and
includes poultry;
"food animal" means an animal whose flesh is
consumed as food by humans;
"Inspector" means an Animal Welfare Inspector
appointed under section 16;
"ill-treat" in relation to an animal means causing an
animal to suffer, by any act or omission, pain or
distress that in its kind or degree or in its object or
in the circumstances in which it is inflicted, is
cruel;
"infirmary" means a shelter established to keep sick or
aged or disabled animals;
"local authority" means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha  and includes any
authority created and established by or under, any
law to exercise, perform or discharge powers,
duties and functions corresponding to or similar

<!-- page 36 -->

35Animal Welfare
to powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed and discharged by any such Council
or Sabha;
"Minister" means the Minister in charge of the subject
of animal welfare;
"overwalking" in relation to an animal means forcible
walking under cruel or distressful conditions;
"pain" includes distress and mental or physical
suffering;
"peace officer" includes Police Officers, Grama
Niladharis appointed by a Divisional Secretary in
writing to perform police duties;
"person" includes any body of person, corporate or
unincorporated;
"person in charge of an animal" means a person who—
(a) owns or has a lease, license or other
proprietary right  to or over the animal; or
(b) has custody of the animal, whether lawfully
or otherwise;
"pinioning" in relation to a bird means disabling a bird’s
wing or removing part of a bird’s wing;
"possession" includes control and custody;
"prescribed" means prescribed by or under this Act;
"research" in relation to an animal means an experiment,
procedure, test or study in which an animal is used
and includes subjecting an animal to surgical,
medical, psychological, biological, chemical or
physical treatment;
5
10
15
20
25

<!-- page 37 -->

Animal Welfare36
"stray animal" means an animal at large or an
abandoned animal or an animal which is not a
wild animal wandering in a street, road or any
public place;
"trap" means a net, cage, snare, pen, pitfall or electrical
device or mechanical thing used for the purpose
of killing, entrapping, entangling, restraining or
immobilizing an animal; but does not include—
(i) any fenced area of land or other effective
enclosure used for handling, herding or
mustering an animal; or
(ii)any enclosure, such as cage used for
transporting an animal;
“University Grants Commission” means the University
Grants Commission established by the Universities
Act, No. 16 of 1978 ;
“vehicle” means any conveyance used as a means of
transport;
“Veterinary Council of Sri Lanka” means the Veterinary
Council of Sri lanka constituted by the Veterinary
Surgeons and Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956;
“Veterinary Surgeon” means a Veterinary Surgeon
registered under the Veterinary Surgeons and
Practitioners Act, No. 46 of 1956 and includes a
V eterinary Practitioner;
“Veterinary treatment of an animal” means—
(i) consulting with a Veterinary Surgeon about
an animal’s condition;
(ii) a medical or surgical procedure performed
on an animal by a Veterinary Surgeon; or
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 38 -->

37Animal Welfare
(iii) a medical procedure of a curative nature
performed on an animal;
“welfare of an animal” includes the health, safety and
well-being of an animal;
“wild animal” means an elephant or any other species
of animal listed in the Schedules to the Fauna and
Flora Protection Ordinance that is not in captivity.
71. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
5
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 39 -->

Animal Welfare38
SCHEDULE [Section 45 (2)]
A NIMAL  WELFARE  DIRECTION
Name of the person in charge of the animal:—
His/Her address:—
Address where animals is kept:—
Identification of the animal, if any:—
Special marks, if any:—
Sex, Breed and type of animal:—
Conditions under which the animal is kept:—
Remarks, if any:—
Date and time:—
Signature of the Inspector:—
Name and Designation:—
DECLARATION BY THE PERSON IN CHARGE OF THE
ANIMAL
I agree to abide by the foregoing direction issued to me in
the interes tof the said animal’s. I hereby undertake to com-
ply with the said directin, failing which I am aware that I may
be charged for breach of the provisions of the Animal Welfare
Act.
Signature of the person in charge of
the animal:
Date:—
(in case compliane is refused, the Inspector shall record it
and the action taken by him under the remarks column)

<!-- page 40 -->

39Animal Welfare
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.