

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
861
861
wxl 1"774 - 2012 wf.daia;= ui 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'08'30
No. 1,774 – THURSDAY , AUGUST 30, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st September, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
September, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 862
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,773 of 24.08.2012 were not published.
The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in January– March, 2009 has been published in Part V of this gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
862
Provincial  Council  Notifications
UDAPALATHA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-Laws
I, Sarath Ekanayake as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local
Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby notify,
according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section
123 the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, to be read with Sub-
section (1) a of Section (2) of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of
1989 (consequential Provisions) has approved the following By-
laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers
vested under Sub-Section (e) VII of Section (126) of the said Act, to
be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15 of 1987 and the said By-laws shall be effective within
Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Udapalatha from the date of
publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province and
the Minister in Charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Central Province,
Kandy,
06th July, 2012.
BY-LAW RELATING TO CREMATORIUM
01. This By-law is cited as the By-law for controlling and regulation
crematoriums in the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha Authority
area.
02. These By-laws are enforced for the purpose of using and
controlling and for determining and levying fees for using such
crematoriums.
03. No any corpse or dead body or part of a dead body or embryo
shall be cremated in a crematorium belonging to the council
without a permit issued by the Chairman or by an officer
authorized by him.
04. Any person who require to obtain a permit under By-law
No. 03 hereinafter referred as the applicant shall forward an
application, prepared according to Schedule No. 01 herein to
the Chairman or to an officer authorized by him, accompanied
with following documents :
(i) A document to prove the relationship between the applicant
and the deceased person (for this purpose a certificate
issued by the Grama Niladari of the Wasama where such
deceased person was residing or a certificate issued by a
member of the Council or the birth certificate or marriage
certificate of the applicant or any such certificate shall be
sufficient) ;
(ii) A photocopy of the applicant's National Identify Card, a
photocopy of the valid passport, or any other document
to prove the identity of the applicant.
(iii) Death certificate issued by a registrar of births and deaths,
according provisions under Section II of Chapter 110 of
births and deaths Registration Ordinance as amended by
the births and deaths registration Act, No. 41 of 1975 ;
where it is speciafically mentioned that the cremation is to
be carried out at Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha crematorium.
(iv) If a post mortem examination has been held under the
Criminal Procedure Code, in respect of the deceased person
the certificate issued by the coroner or by the magistrate
under Section 41(c) of the births and deaths registration
Act.
(v) If the dead body is due to still birth certificate under 41(1)
of the births and deaths registration Act, shall be produced.
05. Where a perfected application is received by the Chairman of
by an officer authorized by him it shall be registered according
to order of receipt and a permit shall be issued according, to
such order of receipt of application and determining the time
of cremation.
06. For cremation of a dead body a cremation fee of Rs. 6,000 shall
be paid to office of the Pradeshiya Sabha. Such fees shall be
amended from time to time on a resolution passed by the
Council and such amended fees shall be published in the
Government Gazette and be exhibited at the office and at the
crematorium.
07. If for any reason if a dead body is not to be accepted for
cremation, the applicant shall be informed immediately giving
such reasons.
08. Corpses shall be handed over for cremations only during 6.00
a. m. to 6.00 p. m. on all days of the week. It is lawful to
cremate a corpse even after 6.00 p. m. if it has been accepted
for cremation before 6.00 p. m.
09. The applicant shall hand over the dead body to the crematorium
keeper at the time mentioned in the permit or before that time.
The Pradeshiya Sabha shall not be held responsible for any
inconvenience or loss caused due to delay in handing over a
dead body.
10. The crematorium keeper shall maintain a register in every
crematorium entering particulars of applicant such as his name
and address, the name of the deceased person and his address
where he was residing before his death and the relationship
between the applicant and the deceased person and date of
cremation and the time.
11. If it fails to perform a cremation of a dead body due to any
mechanical defect that may occur at the time of cremation the

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
863
applicant shall agree to abide by any other alternative
arrangement regarding the dead body on the advice of the
Chairman.
12. The applicant or an authorized representative shall take over
the ashes before expiry of 72 hours of the cremation of the
dead body and it is legally in order to dispose the ashes in any
manner if such ashes are not taken over during the specified
time period.
13. It is an offence to enter into the premises of a crematorium
without the permission of crematorium keeper or the Chairman,
even though, any person or persons accompanying the permit
holder shall be considered as having been granted permission
for that purpose.
14. No person should behave in a manner that will disturb the
peace within the premises of a crematorium and shall not cause
any damage to property of the Pradeshiya Sabha and shall not
obstruct the duties of a crematorium keeper or his assistant. If
there be any such damage or loss the permit holder shall be
liable to pay the value of such damages ; when he is duly
informed afer assessing the value of such damages. If he defaults
the payment it is lawful to summon him before a court of law
having jurisdiction and recover the due sum of money as a fine.
15. No decoration should be carried out within the premises of
crematorium without the written approval of the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
16. If the crematorium is to be kept closed for a certain period
owing to any maintenance work or for repairs notification in
respect of such closure should be displayed in a prominent
visible place of the crematorium.
17. Contravening any of the provisions of these by-laws is an
offence and when committed in a court of law having
jurisdiction, the maximum fine and punishment imposable and
when such contravention is committed continuously and when
convicted or the case of continuous contravention, after
delivering a written notice by the Chairman on by and officer
authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention,
the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of
continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined
under Sub-section (02) of Section (112) of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
18. Unless the context otherwise requires in these By-laws :
"Council" means Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
"Chairman" means the Chairman appointed to the Udapalatha
Pradeshiya Sabha according to written law in force at the
time.
"Dead body" means a dead body of a human being or part of
a dead body or body of a still birth.
"Crematorium Keeper" means a person appointed as a
crematorium keeper to carry out such duties.
In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts of these By-laws then Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE NO. 1
Application for cremation of a dead body in the crematorium of
the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha :
1. Full name of the applicant :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Number of the Identity Card :––––––––––.
Wasama of Grama Niladari :––––––––––.
2. Name of the deceased person :––––––––––.
Address of the deceased person :––––––––––.
National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
Grama Niladari Wasama :––––––––––.
Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area :––––––––––.
3. Relationship between the applicant and the deceased person
:––––––––––.
4. Number of death certificate and date :––––––––––.
5. Name and address of the Register of death :––––––––––.
6. Cause of death :––––––––––.
7. Whether post - morternm was held, the date and time :––––––
.
8. Coroner's name and the post :––––––––––.
9. Verdict of the coroner :––––––––––.
10. Whether permission was granated/not granted for cremation of
the dead body :––––––––––.
11. Proposed date and time of cremation :––––––––––.
12. Telephone Number :––––––––––.
I hereby declare the information furnished above is true and correct
all necessary documents are annexed hereto.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
(for office use)
1. Issue of application is approved/not approved.
–––––––––––,
Chairman/Authorized Officer
Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. Paid Rs. .................... under receipt No. ................. dated
..............
–––––––––––,
Subject Clerk.
Date :––––––––––.
08–786/2

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
864
UDAPALATHA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
By-Laws
I, Sarath Ekanayake as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local
Government of the Central Provincial Council, do hereby notify,
according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section
123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987, to be read with
Sub-section (1) (a) of Section (2) of the Provincial Council Act, No.
12 of 1989 (consequential Provisions) has approved the following
By-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to
powers vested under Sub-Section (e) VII of Section (126) of the said
Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and the said By-laws shall be effective
within Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of Udapalatha from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH EKANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province and
the Minister in Charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of the Chief Minister of the Central Province,
Kandy,
06th July, 2012.
BY-LAW RELATING TO PARKING , HIRING CARS AND
MOTOR VEHICLES
01. This By-law is cited as far By-law for parking controlling and
regulating hiring cars and motor vehicles within the Udapalatha
Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area and for levying licensing fees
from such vehicles.
02. No motor vehicle shall be parked at any public place for the
purpose of hiring such vehicles except at a place approved by
the Pradeshiya Sabha of Yatinuwara and duly notified by the
Chairman according to 1st Schedule shown herein. Such parking
places shall be amended and new parking places shall be named
on a resolution passed in the Council.
03. Hiring cars and motor vehicles shall be parked at places shown
in the 1st Schedule herein, after payment of fees shown in the
2nd Schedule together with relevant crown fees to the Council
annually. Such hiring cars and motor vehicles shall be registered
in the council. Relevant fees shall be determined by the council
from time to time and such amended fees shall be valid only
after publication of a notification in the Government Gazette.
04. No person shall park a motor vehicle in the parking places
shown in the 1st Schedule herein situated within the Pradeshiya
Sabha Authority area, except on a license issued by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him and such parking arrangement
shall operate from 6.00 a. m. to 7.00 p. m. daily.
05. The period of validity of every license issued under these By-
laws shall expire on the last date of the calendar month for
which it is issue unless it is cancelled earlier by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him.
06. For the purpose of obtaining a license, an application as
stipulated in the Third Schedule herein shall be forwarded to
the Chairman by the owner or driver of the vehicle.
07. The license issued in respect of a motor vehicle parked in a
parking place shall be reduced for inspection of a traffic warden
or a person appointed by the Chairman for the purpose
whenever a request is made from the owner or driver of such
vehicle.
08. Vehicle parking license shall have to be obtained before the
first day of the every relevant month.
09. No motor vehicle shall be parked in a hiring car and motor
vehicle parking place without a valid license issued by the
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
10. Whenever a motor vehicle is to be removed from a vehicle
parking place permanently or for a period not less than 14
days, such removal shall be immediately notified to the council
office and if fail to notify accordingly relevant monthly fees
shall be payable to the council.
11. No vehicle shall be washed or cause to be washed or repaired
within a hiring car and motor vehicle parking place.
12. No person shall behave drunkenly or under influence of liquor,
or misbehave or behave in disorderly manner, causing any
hindrance inside a hiring car parking place or inside a vehicle
parked therein.
13. Contravening any of the provisions of these by-laws is an
offence and when convicted in a court of law having jurisdiction,
the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such
contravention is committed continuously and when convicted
or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a
written notice by the Chairman on by an officer authorized by
him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximu
additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such
contravention shall respectively be as defined under Sub-section
(02) of Section (112) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987.
14. It shall be lawful to cancel a license issued to a person who has
convicted in a court of law twice or more times on account of
violation of these By-laws and or in addition to any other
punishment imposed by a court of law having jurisdiction.
Such person has no right to claim any compensation for such
cancellation.
15. Unless the context otherwise requires in these By-laws :
"Council" means Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha.
"Chairman" means the Chairman of Udapalatha Pradeshiya
Sabha.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
865
By-laws “Authorized Officer” means an Officer Authorized
by the Chairman of Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Traffic Warden” means an Officer appointed by the
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha for control of traffic.
“Motor car or hiring car” means a Three Wheeler, Lorry,
Motor Van, Tractor, Truck, Hand Tractor.
In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts of these By-laws then Sinhala text shall prevail.
1ST  SCHEDULE
PLACES APPROVED FOR PARKING VEHICLES WITHIN THE UDAPALATHA
PRADESHIYA SABHA AUTHORITY AREA
01. A distance of 20 meters in length in front of Pusellawa town.
02. A distance of 20 meters in length in front of singer establishment
in Pusellawa.
03. A distance of 20 meters in front of Pusellawa old bus stand.
04. A distance of 20 meters near approach road to toddy tavern.
05. A distance of 15 meters close to Wahugepitiya Hospital.
06. A distance 15 meters in length at the place turning towards
Chaply colony in Wahugepitiya Town.
07. A distance of 20 meters in length of Paradeka town junction.
08. A distance of 20 meters in length at Atabage junction.
09. A distance of 20 meters in length at Delpitya junction.
10. A distance of 20 meters in length at Nawadewita junction.
11. A distance of 20 meters in length at Moragolla junction.
12. A distance of 20 meters in length at Udagama junction.
13. A distance of 20 meters in length at Dunukeulla junction.
14. A distance of 20 meters in length at Parapaha junction.
15. A distance of 20 meters in length at Doragala junction.
16. A distance of 20 meters in length at Pupurassa town junction.
17. A distance of 25 meters in length at Pauwilatenna junction.
18. A distance of 20 meters in length at Millagahamula junction.
19. A distance of 20 meters in length at Wariyagala junction.
20. A distance of 20 meters in length at Nellambe junction.
21. A distance of 20 meters in length at Pihimbiya Hena junction –
Megoda Kalugamuwa.
22. A distance of 20 meters in length in front of Sathipola - Doluwa
junction.
23. A distance of 20 meters in length along Galaha Road - Godawela
junction.
24. A distance of 20 meters in length along Galaha Road – Ceremic
Corporation junction.
25. A distance of 20 meters in length along Galaha Road - Haloya
09th Mile Post junction.
26. A distance of 20 meters in length along Galaha Road - Appukade
junction.
27. A distance of 20 meters in length along Galaha Road - Nillambe
Office junction.
28. A distance of 20 meters in length along Galaha Road - Mawatura
junction.
29. A distance of 20 meters in length at Inguruwatta junction.
30. A distance of 20 meters in length near Andiyakadewatha
Mosque.
31. A distance of 20 meters in length near Pallewela birdge.
32. A distance of 20 meters in length at Bowala Pinthaliya junction.
33. A distance of 20 meters in length at Kahawatta.
34. A distance of 20 meters in length at Egodakalugamuwa.
35. A distance of 20 meters in length at Ilangewatta.
36. A distance of 20 meters in length at Naranwita Playground.
37. A distance of 20 meters in length at Bowala Wewpitiya.
38. A distance of 20 meters in length at Nillambe New Town.
39. A distance of 20 meters in length at Mulgama.
40. A distance of 20 meters in length at Pallelegunadeniya.
41. A distance of 20 meters in length near Wewatena School.
42. A distance of 20 meters in length at Levallon Estate.
43. A distance of 20 meters in length at Wariyagolla Illagolla
junction.
44. A distance of 20 meters in length at Ganegoda.
45. A distance of 20 meters in length at Nillambe reservoir.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
866
46. A distance of 20 meters in length at Store field junction.
2nd SCHEDULE
FEES FOR PARKING HIRING CARS AND MOTOR VEHICLES
01. A Lorry Rs. 500 per month
02. A Motor Van Rs. 500 per month
03. A Tractor with Trailer Rs. 250 per month
04. A Three-Wheeler Rs. 100 per month
05. A Motor Car Rs. 500 per month
06. A Hand Tractor Rs. 250 per month
3rd  SCHEDULE
U
DAPALATHA PRADESHIYA SABHA
APPLICA TION FOR REGISTRATION OF VEHICLES AND OBTAINING LICENSE
1. Number of the vehicle and the type of vehicle :––––––––––.
2. Name of owner :––––––––––.
3. Number of the National Identity Card :––––––––––.
4. Address of the owner :––––––––––.
5. Name of driver :––––––––––.
6. National Identity Card Number of the driver :––––––––––.
7. Driving License Number :––––––––––.
8. Address of the driver :––––––––––.
9. Place applied for parking the vehicle :––––––––––.
10. The purpose for which the vehicle is used :––––––––––.
11. Capacity/extent :––––––––––.
I certify that the above given information is true and correct.
––––––––––,
Signature of applicant/Driver.
Date :––––––––––.
Approval of the Chairman :
Issue of the license is approved/not approved after charging a fee
of Rs. ..........................
–––––––––––,
Chairman,
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha,
Delpitiya – Atabage.
Date :––––––––––.
08–786/1
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.