

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1395
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1370
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"974 – 2016 cQ,s ui 01 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'07'01
No. 1,974 –  fRiday ,  July 01, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd July, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th  July, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st June, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1367
Note.— Sri lanka association for child development (Slacd) (incorporate) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part 
II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 13, 2016.
N. B.— Part iii of the Gazette No. 1973 of 24.06.2016 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1368
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1369
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1370
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths
 
Badulla  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 01st of august, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th June, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Mahiyanganaya Post of additional Registrar of  district Secretary/additional
   Marriages (Kandyan/General) of  Registrar General, district   
   Mahiyanganaya town division   Secretariat, Badulla. 
07–105
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths
 
KuRuNEGala  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1371
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 01st august, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
10th June, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Kurunegala Giribawa Post of Birth and death Registrar of district Secretary/additional
   Rajanganaya left Bank division and  Registrar General, district   
   Post of Marriage Registrar of Wanni  Secretariat, Kurunegala. 
   Hathpaththuwa division (Kandyan/
   General)
Kurunegala Kobeigane Post of Birth and death Registrar of district Secretary/additional
   Baladora  Koralaya division and   Registrar General, district   
   Post of Marriage Registrar of  Secretariat, Kurunegala. 
   devamedi Hathpaththuwa division 
   (Kandyan/General)
07–102
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths
 
NuWaRa Eliya  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1372
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 01st august, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th June, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara ambagamuwa Post of Registrar of Births and deaths district Secretary/additional
Eliya   of Hatton dickoya in Nuwara Eliya  Registrar General, district   
   district   Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya. 
07–104
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths
 
PuttalaM  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1373
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 01st august, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
10th June, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam anamaduwa Post of Registrar of Marriages  district Secretary/additional
    (General) in demala Hathpattuwa   Registrar General, district   
   division and Births and deaths of   Secretariat, Puttalam. 
   Pandithapattuwa division
Puttalam chilaw Post of Registrar of Births and deaths  district Secretary/additional
    in chilaw town division  Registrar General, district   
      Secretariat, Puttalam. 
   
07–154
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages 
 
NuWaRa Eliya  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule 
hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1374
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
01st august, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th June, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Hanguranketha Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar district Secretary/additional
 Eliya   of Nuwara Eliya district,   Registrar General, district   
   Hanguranketha town division  Secretariat, Nuwara Eliya. 
07–103
––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Police Constable 
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
for the Post of Recruit Police constable in the Sri lanka 
Police. 
2. application forms duly perfected in accordance 
with the specimen form given below should be sent to 
"director/Recruitment, Recruitment division, No. 375, 
Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, colombo 06". the 
application should be sent by registered post to the above-
mentioned address to reach on or before 01.08.2016 and 
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. delayed 
applications will be rejected and no applications will be 
issued by Sri lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.– Rs. 354,480 - 7 x 3,600 - 27 x 4,440 
-   Rs. 499,560.00. 
Salary will be paid from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020 as 
per the Public administration circular 3-2016 Schedule ii 
and the above mentioned salary scale will be effect from 
01.01.2020. 
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordane with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013 dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above 
salary scale, they will be paid following allowances : 
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) arduous duty allowances  2,000 0
 (b) Combined allowances : 
  (1)  for performing duties in  10,500 0
   North and East areas
  (2)  for performance duties in 8,400 0 
 other areas
 (c) Other allowances : 
  uniform cleaning allowance 250 0
 (d)  free transport facilities
 (e)  Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country.).
 (f)  all uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (g)  facilities to imporve their skills and talents in 
sports.
 (h)  travelling expenses for duty and money will be 
granted as rewards for outstanding and arduous 
duties. 
04. Basic Qualifications : 
 (a) Age Limits.– the age should be between 18 and 
28 years as at closing date of the applications 
as per the Gazette Notification. However Police 
officers currently serving in the Sri Lanka Police 
are eligible to apply up to the age of 30 years at 
age as at the closing date of applications. 
 (b) Educational qualifications.– Should have 
passed 06 subjects including Mathematics 
and Medium language in not more than two 
attempts at the G. c. E. (o/l) Examination. 
Rs. cts. 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1375
Applicants who are qualified within two 
attempts should have passed at least 05 subjects 
at the first attempt. 
Note 01.–   According to the classification of subjects 
by the department of Examinations, 
Sri lanka number of subjects passed 
at the examination will be decided by 
considering the two science subjects 
bearing numbers 41, 44 as one subject 
and the two mathematics subjects bearing 
numbers 42 and 45 as one subject.
Note 02.–   failure in the technical subjects at 
written test of G. c. E. (o/l) Examination 
will be considered as failure in the same 
subject although a pass has been obtained 
for the same subject in the Practical test. 
Note 03.–   Since optional subjects of tamil, English 
and Sinhala have not been included in the 
stream of G. c. E. (o/l), passes in any of 
these subjects will not be computed as a 
pass in the  G. c. E. (o/l) Examination. 
 (c) Physical Requirements : 
  * Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
  * chest 30 inches (minimum/in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of 
the physical requirements, but fulfill 
the other stipulated qualifications will 
be eligible at the discretion of Inspector 
General of Police provided that they have 
skills in sports or have achieved best 
performance in sports at national level 
or they have earned reputation for Sri 
Lanka by participating in an international 
competition. 
 (d) Visual Requirement.– Vision should not be less 
than  6/12 with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 
with one eye and 6/18 with the other eye it will 
be accepted. colour vision should be normal. 
applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses 
will not be eligible.
 (e) Other Qualifications .– applicants should be 
unmarried (divorcees will be considered as 
married). only this condition will not apply for 
the Police Officers presently serving in the Sri 
Lanka Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will 
have to pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by 
the department of Police. only those who have passed this 
test must also get through the physical fitness test such as 
endurance test. 
      1,000 meters  – 03 minutes   44 seconds 
only those who are successful in the physical 
fitness such as endurance test will be called for final 
interview. only those who score 40% or more will be 
called for the written test.
* the written test consists of two question papers :
* an essay paper; not less than 500 words within 
45 minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper 
- 1 hour. 
6. Medical Test.– applicant must pass the medical test 
before obtaining his appointment. Medical test is an only 
one part of the recruitment process. Selection will be made 
among the applicants who pass the medical test, as per 
the number of existing vacancies and the position in the 
list pertaining to the merit and skill. those who fails the 
medical test will be rejected. 
07. Background Inquiries : 
 (a) applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
applicants with bad conduct will not be 
recruited.
 (b) Providing false information will make the 
applicant inelig ible. if the false information is 
elicited after the appointment, the applicants 
will be dismissed from the service. 
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* as per the Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry 
of Public administration and Home affairs, all 
officers recruited to the Public/Provincial Service 
with effect from 01.07.2007 should acquire 
proficiency in the other official language within 
a period of 05 years in addition to the official 
language through which they entered to the 
service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1376
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* the salary increments of those who fail to pass 
the second official language within 5 years from 
the date of appointment will be deferred until a 
pass is obtained. 
09. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable. you are liable to contribute to the Widows'/
Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
10. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) this appointment is subject to a recruit period of 
three years.
 (b) the selected applicants will be required to comply 
with any rules already made or may hereinafter be 
made to give effect to the official language policy.
 (c) they will be subjected to comly with relevant 
provisions of the Establishment code V olume 
i and ii, financial Regulations, departmental 
orders, and any other orders that may be issued 
by the inspector General of Police or by the 
Government from time to time.
 (d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed Examinations 
conducted by the Sri lanka Police. those who 
fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found 
to be unfit for Police duties will be liable to be 
removed from the Police Service.
 (e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior to 
the being confirmation in the said rank without 
the permission of the inspector General Police. 
However in terms of P. G. ii No. 41 dated 
28.02.1973 and i. G.'s circular No. 1952/2006 
of 19.10.2006 and circular (amended) dated 
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry under special 
circumstances and with the permission of 
inspector General of Police.
 (f) applicants appointed after the training should 
serve as recruit period of 03 years in the Sri lanka 
Police and if they wish to resign from the service 
before their recruit period is over, they should 
sign a consent agreement to the effect that they are 
willing to pay any amount which was incurred on 
the training and uniforms etc., together with any 
other prescribed payments at the time of tendering 
their resignations. director of Police training 
college will decide it having calculated dues from 
the applicants. the acceptance of resignation 
should conform to the Section 4, chapter V of 
V olume i of the Establishments code, 1985.
 (g) Recruit Police constables should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with the Police code of conduct immediate after 
commencing their training in terms of the i. G. P.'s 
circular No. 1693/2003.
 (h) Recruit Police constables should subscribe the 
oath of allegiance for a prestigious public service, 
immediate after commencing their training in 
terms of the i.G.P.'s circular, No. 1804/2004.
 (i) Recruit Police constables who have been 
confirmed in the post will have opportunities for 
promotions in terms of the approved schemes of 
promotions of the Sri lanka Police. 
11. (a) attention is drawn to the general conditions 
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public 
Service published at the beginning of the Section 
(iia) of the Part i of this Gazette ;
 (b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
administration circular, No. 15/90 dated 
10.03.1990. 
12. applicantions should accompany photocopies of 
following documents (originals must not be forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) two recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from persons who are not related) ;
 (iii) Certificates substantiating educational qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates substantiating any outstanding sports 
or other extra curricular activities ;
 (v) A photocopy of the certificates of services (if 
available) ; 
 (vi) a photocopy of the identity card.
13. (a) applicants who are already in the Public Service 
must forwarded their applications through the 
Heads of their respective departments and they 
must be accompanied with a certificate stating 
that the officer can be released, if selected. 
 (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in 
their own hand writing on a paper of 11" x 8" 
in size and post them together with the copies 
of certificates called for to the address given 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1377
in paragraph two and under no circumstances 
should applications be handed over personally to 
any officer in the Department. 
14. applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview. 
 
Pujith jayasundara, 
 inspector General of Police. 
Police Headquarters, 
colombo 01,
11th June, 2016.
SRi laNKa PolicE 
Post of Police constable  
sPecimen aPPlication form
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
  (b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father's Name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth 
belongs : ––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05. (a) Present address :––––––––––.
 (b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
:––––––––––.
 (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
 (d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.
 (e) Grama Niladari's division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
  divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
 (f) t elephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
 (b)  Whether you are a Sri lanka citizen by birth or 
registration  :––––––––.
   (If by registration attach a copy of that certificate)
  (c)  if you are a citizen by birth State the place of birth:
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. (copy of the birth 
certificate should be attached)
 
 age : (as at the closing date of applications as per the 
Gazette Notification) :  
 y ears :–––––––– Months :–––––––– days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :––––––––––.
11. civil status :–––––––––.
12.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed force ? :–––––––.
13. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications ? 
:––––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees 
to inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
15. Have you served in the Sri lanka Police Service before ?    
(if so,what are the reasons for leaving the service ? 
give details) :––––––––––.
16. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? (if so 
your application must be forwarded  through the 
respective Service commander) :––––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in an armed service ? (if so 
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :–––––.
17. (a) are you serving as a V olunteer  armed Service ? 
(if so, your application must be forwarded 
through the respective Service commander) : 
–––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1378
 (b)  Have you served in a V olunteer armed service ? 
:––––––––.
  (If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
18. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court of punished (if so give details) 
:––––––––––.
19. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed on offence or convicted or brought 
before the court of punished (if so give details) :–––––.
i hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, i 
am aware that i am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri lanka Police at any time even though i 
have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of Department (If applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss ..................... 
is serving in ....................... the department, corporation/
Board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the  
 department with designation seal. 
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
07–241/1
–––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Police Constable Driver
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri lanka 
for the Post of Police constable driver in the Sri lanka 
Police. 
2. application forms duly perfected in accordance with 
the specimen form given below should be sent to “director 
Recruitment, Recruitment division, No. 375, 1st floor, 
Sri Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha, colombo 06 ”. the 
application should be sent by the Registered Post to the 
above address to reach on or before 01.08.2016 and the 
post applied for should be marked on the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. delayed 
applications will not be entertained and no applications 
will be issued by the Sri lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.– Rs. 354,480 - 7 x 3,600 - 27 x 4,440 
-   Rs. 499,560. 
Salary will be paid from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020 as 
per the Public administration circular 3-2016 Schedule ii 
and the above mentioned salary scale will be effect from 
01.01.2020. 
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above 
salary scale, they will be paid following allowances : 
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) arduous duty allowances  2,000 0
 (b) Combined allowances : 
  (1)  for performance duties in  10,500 0
   North and East areas
  (2)  for performance duties in 8,400 0 
 other areas
 (c) Other allowances : 
  uniform cleaning allowance 250 0
 (d)  free transport facilities.
 (e)  Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country.).
 (f)  all uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (g)  facilities to imporve their skills and talents in 
sports.
 (h)  travelling expenses for duty and money will be 
granted as rewards for outstanding and arduous 
duties. 
04. Basic Qualifications Required : 
 (a) Age Limits.– the age should be 19 and 28 years 
as at closing date of the application as per the 
Gazette Notification. 
 (b) Educational qualifications : 
  Should have passed 06 subjects including 
Mathematics and Medium language in not 
more than two attempts at the G. c. E. (o/l)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1379
examination. Applicants who are qualified 
within two attempts should have passed at least 
05 subjects at the first attempt. 
Note 01.–  the subjects passed at the G. c. E. (o/l) 
examination is determined as per the subject 
classification of Department of Examination 
i. e. Science subject combination of subject 
number 41 and 44 is considered as one subject 
and Maths subject combination of subject 
number 42 and 45 as one subject. 
Note 02.–   if the written test of technical subject 
at the G. c. E. (o/l) Examination is failed, it 
is considered as the technical subject is failed 
even though the practical test of the same 
subject is passed.
Note 03.–   Since optional tamil, English and 
Sinhala subjects are not included in the stream 
of G. c. E. (o/l) syllabus, passes in any of 
these subjects will not be accounted as passed 
subjects at the  G. c. E. (o/l) Examination. 
 (c) Physical Requirements : 
  * Height 05 feet 03 inches (minimum).
  * chest 30 inches minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– applicants who are slightly short of the 
physical requirements, but fulfill the other 
stipulated qualifications will be eligible 
at the discretion of inspector General of 
Police provided they have outstanding skills 
in sports and have excellent performance 
in sports at national level or have earned 
reputation for Sri lanka by participating in 
an international competition. 
 (d) Professional qualifications : 
 (i) Certificate of competence in driving light or 
heavy vehicles. 
 (ii) at least, one year experience in diriving 
motor vehicles after obtaining the above 
certificate. 
Note.– Priority will be given for knowledge 
of motor mechanism, experience in repairs 
of vehicles and long term experience in 
driving vehicles. 
 * if any applicant has deformity or any other 
physical disability which impedes movement 
of physical limb required for competence in 
driving will be disqualified, although he has 
obtained a medical certificate to the effect 
that he is fit for service. 
 * The applicants who have basic qualifications 
will be tested for their ability for driving 
and maintaining vehicles. their knowledge 
of road rules, traffic signals and basic 
knowledge of mechanical theories of the 
vehicle in which the applicant has achieved 
competence in driving will also be tested. 
 (e) Vision Requirement.– Vision should not be less 
than 6/12 in each eye, it is also accepted if the 
vision is 6/6 in one eye and 6/18 with the other 
eye. colour vision should be normal. applicants 
wearing spectacles or contact lenses will not be 
eligible for being selected for the service. 
 (f) Other Qualifications .– applicants should be 
unmarried (divorcees will be considred as 
married). 
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will 
have to pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by 
Sri lanka Police. only those who pass this test must also 
get through the physical fitness tests or endurance test. 
1,000 meters  – 03 minutes   44 seconds 
Only those who are successful in the physical fitness 
test will be summoned for final interview, and those 
who score 40% or more in the final interview will be 
summoned for the professional test. 
6. Professional Qualifications : 
 6.1 Professional test will be conducted by the 
assistant director of Police driving School under 
the supervision of the director, Sri lanka Police 
college. 
 6.2 100 marks have been allocated for the professional 
test. the test will be conducted as follows : 
 (a) competence in driving vehicles - 50 marks
 (b) Road rules manual - 25 marks
 (c) Knowledge on maintenance of vehicles and 
ability to attend to minor repairs - 25 marks. 
 6.3 Professional Test.– applicants who obtain a 
minimum of 25 out of the maximum marks of 
50 allocated to the eligibility of driving vehicle, 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1380
a minimum of 12.5 out of the maximum marks of 
25 allocated to the knowledge on the road rules 
manual, a minimum of 12.5 out of the maximum 
marks of 25 allocated to the maintenance and 
attending to minor repairs, thus obtaining a total 
of 50 out of total marks of 100 allocated will be 
considered as having passed the professional test. 
only the candidates who pass the professional test 
will be invited for the medical test. 
Note.– Police Constable Drivers who are 
recruited should obtain certificates to drive 
heavy vehicles and pass the heavy Vehicle 
Driving Test conducted by the Police College 
before the end of probation period. 
07. Medical Test.– applicant must pass the medical test 
before obtaining his appointment. Medical test is an only 
one part of the recruitment process. Selection will be made 
among the applicants who pass in the medical test, as per 
the number of existing vacancies and the position in the 
list pertaining to the merits and skill. those who fail the 
medical test will be rejected. 
08. Background Inquiries : 
 (a) applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
applicants with bad conduct will not be 
recruited.
 (b) Providing false information will make the 
applicant ineligible. if the false information is 
elicited after the appointment, the applicants 
will be dismissed from the service. 
09. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* as per the Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry 
of Public administration and Home affairs, all 
officers recruited to the Public/Provincial Public 
Service with effect from 01.07.2007 should 
acquire proficiency in the other official language 
within a period of 05 years in addition to the 
official language through which they enter the 
service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* The salary increments of the officers who do not 
acquire the specified proficiency in the second 
official language within a period of 05 years from 
the date of their appointments will be deferred 
until they obtain qualifications.  
10. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable. you are liable to contribute to the Widows'/
Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
11. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) this appointment is subject to a recruit period of 
three years.
 (b) the selected applicants will be required to 
comply with any regulation already made or made 
hereinafter to give effect to the official language 
policy.
 (c) they will be subject to comply with the relevant 
provisions of the Establishments code V olume 
i and ii, financial Regulations, departmental 
orders, Police disciplinary code and any other 
orders that may be issued by the inspector General 
of Police or by the Government from time to time.
 (d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed departmental 
Examinations. those who fail to pass the 
prescribed examinations or found to be unfit for 
Police duties will be liable to be removed from 
the Police Service.
 (e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior 
to the confirmation in the said rank without the 
permission of the inspector General of Police. 
However in terms of P. G. ii No. 41 dated 
28.02.1973 and i. G.'s circular No. 1952/2006 
of 19.10.2006 and circular (amended) dated 
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry under special 
circumstances and with the permission of 
inspector General Police.
 (f) applicants  appointed after the training should 
serve a recruit period of three years in the Sri 
lanka Police and if they wish to resign from the 
service before their recruit period is over, they 
should sign a consent agreement to the effect 
that they are willing to pay any amount which 
was incurred on the training and uniforms etc., 
together with any other prescribed payments 
at the time of tendering their resignations. 
director of Police training college will decide 
it having calculated dues from the applicants. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1381
the acceptance of resignation should conform 
to the Section 4, chapter V of V olume i of the 
Establishments code, 1985.
 (g) Recruit Police constable drivers should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with the Police code of conduct immediate after 
commencing their training in terms of the i. G. P.'s 
circular No. 1693/2003.
 (h) Recruit Police constables drivers should 
subscribe the oath of allegiance for a prestigious 
Public Service, immediate after commencing 
their training in terms of the i.G.P.'s circular, No. 
1804/2004.
 (i) Recruit Police constable drivers who have been 
confirmed in the post will have opportunities for 
promotions in terms of the approved scheme of 
promotions of the Police department. 
12. (a) attention is drawn to the general conditions 
applicable to appointment to the posts in the 
Public Service published in the Section (iia) of 
the Part i of this Gazette.
 (b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
administration circular, No. 15/90 dated 
10.03.1990. 
13. applicants should accompany photocopies of the 
following documents (originals must not be forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) two recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from non related persons) ;
 (iii) Certificates in support of educational 
qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports 
or other extra curricular activities ;
 (v) Certificates regarding experience in service (if 
available) ;
 (vi) a photostat copy of the National identity card ; 
 (vii) a photostat copy of the valid driving licence.
14. (a) applicants who are already in the Public Service 
must forward their applications through the 
Heads of their respective departments and must 
be accompanied by a certificate stating that the 
officers can be released, if selected. 
 (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in 
their own hand writing on a paper 11" x 8" in 
size and post them together with the copies of 
certificates to the address given in paragraph 2 
and under no circumstances should applications 
be handed over personally to any officer. 
15. applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview. 
 
Pujith jayasundara, 
 inspector General of Police. 
Police Headquarters, 
colombo 01,
11th June, 2016.
SRi laNKa PolicE   
Post of Police constable driver  
sPecimen aPPlication form
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (As stated in the applicant's Birth Certificate)
  (b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (copy of the Nic should de attached)
03. father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth 
belongs :––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05. (a) Present address :––––––––––.
 (b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
: ––––––––––.
 (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
 (d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.
 (e) Grama Niladari's division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
  divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
 (f) t elephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   Mobile No. :––––––––––.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1382
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b)  Whether you are a Sri lankan citizen by birth or  
  registration :––––––––––.
   (If by registration attach a copy of that certificate)
  (c)  if you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth :
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant’s father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant’s paternal grandfather :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant’s paternal great grandfather :        
  ––––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. (copy of the Birth 
Certificate should be attached)
 
 age : (as at the closing date of applications as per the 
Gazette Notification) :  
 y ears :–––––––– Months :–––––––– days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
10. (a) driving licence No. :––––––––––.
 (b)  date of issue :––––––––––.
 (c) classes competent to drive :––––––––––.
    (attach a photostat copy of the driving licence)
11. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
12. civil status :––––––––––.
13.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed force ? :––––––.
14. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications ?              
:–––––––––.
15. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees 
to inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
16. Have you served in the Sri lanka Police Service before ?      
(if so, what are the reasons for leaving the service ? 
Give details) :––––––––––.
17. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? (if so 
your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service commander) :––––––––––.
 (b)  Have you served in an armed service? (if so attach 
a copy of your discharge certificate) :–––––––––.
18. (a) are you serving in a volunteer armed service ? (if 
so your application must be forwarded through 
the respective Service commander) :–––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in V olunteer armed service ? 
(If so attach a copy of your discharge certificate) 
:––––––––––.
19. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court or punished (if so give details) 
:––––––––––.
20. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed an offence or convicted or brought 
before the court or punished ? (if so give details) :             
––––––.
i hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, i 
am aware that i am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri lanka Police at any time even though i 
have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
21. Certification of the Head of Department (If applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss ..................... 
is serving in ....................... the department corporation/
Board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the  
 department with the designation seal. 
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
07–241/2
–––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERVICES  COmmISSION
ministry of Local Government and Provincial 
Councils
REcRuitMENt foR tHE PoSt of lEGal 
officER (ExEcutiVE catEGoRy GRadE iii) oN 
oPEN BaSiS 
aPPlicatioNS are called from citizens of Sri lanka with 
qualifications specified in this notification to fill a vacancy 
in the Post of Legal Officer of the Ministry of Provincial 
councils and local Government.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1383
01. Method of recruitment .– applicant who obtains 
maximum marks from a structured interview conducted 
by an interview board appointed by Public Services 
commission out of applicants who have completed 
qualifications specified in the notification will be recruited 
to fill the existing vacancy. Structured interview will be 
held in conformity with the marking scheme (under No. 6) 
approved by Public Services commission.
02. Qualifications :
 (i) Educational/ Professional Qualifications:
  Should have possessed a degree in law 
from a university recognized by university 
Grants commission or having taking oath as 
a lawyer.
 (ii) Experience:
  Should have an active professional service 
period not less than 3 years after taking oath 
as an attorney-at-law.
 (iii) Physical Qualifications :
  Every applicant should be physically and 
mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island 
and to perform duties of the post.
 (iv) Other :
 * Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 * Should be of excellent character.
 * Requisite qualifications for this post should 
have been completed in every aspect as at 
the closing date.
03. Service Occupying Conditions and Service 
Conditions :
 (i) this post is permanent.
 (ii) this appointment will be subject to a probation 
period of three (3) years. Officers should pass 
the First Efficiency bar examination within 
three years of the  appointment as stated in 
the recruitment procedure.
 (iii) Every Officer should obtain the proficiency 
in the official language before exceeding 
five years from the appointment as per the 
provisions of Public administrative circular 
01/2014 dated 21.01.2014 and circulars 
incidental thereto.
 (iv) this appointment is also subject to the 
procedural rules of Public Services 
commission, financial regulations, provision 
of Establishments code, provisions in the 
recruitment procedure of the Post of legal 
Officer (Executive Category Grade iii) of the 
Ministry of Provincial councils and local 
Government and the reforms and provisions 
that may be made.
04. Age Limit.– the applicant should not be less than 
21 years and not more than 45 years of age.
05. Salary Scale : 
Monthly Salary Scale – Rs. 47,615 – 10 x 1,335 – 8 
-17 x 2170 – Rs. 110,895 – (Salary segment Sl-l-2016 of 
P.a.c. No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016).this salary scale is 
effective from 01.01.2020. fixed salary for 2016 – Basic 
Salary Rs. 27,871.00.
adjustment allowance – Rs. 9,651.00
06. Marking scheme for the structured interview :
 S. No. Subject Marks Maximum
    Marks
 01. Additional Educational qualifications :  20
  degree in law from a recognized university
   - first class 20
   - Second class (upper) 15
   - Second class (lower) 10 
  First Class in the final year of law college 15
  Second Class in the final year of Law College 10
  Note: 10 marks should be given only First Class is obtained at the final 
   exam 
   (marks only for maximum qualifications – either LLB or 
   Law College Qualifications)
 02. Additional Professional Qualifications :  15
  Post Graduate Diploma in relevant field or Post Graduate  Diploma in 
  law issued by a recognized institute
  (05 marks for each diploma)
  Diploma of not less than six months in relevant field offered by a 
  recognized institute. (3 marks each for one diploma)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1384
  Certification course of not less than 03 months in relevant field
  offered by a recognized institute (2 marks for each certificate course)
 03. Additional Experience :  30
  Experience as attorney-at-law in public or private sector not less
  than 06 months and not more than one year – 02 marks 
  maximum 30 marks – five marks per each year
  (Except 03 years of service period engaged in service as an 
  Attorney-at-Law, to acquire basic qualifications.)
  (Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate issued by 
  an attorney-at-law or President's counsel or a judge with a service 
  period not less than 20 years)
 04. Computer Literacy :
  Should have studied information technology as a main subject for a  15 15
  degree of a university recognized by university Grants commissions
  a  diploma on information technology not less than one (01) 10
  year or 1500 hours from a Government recognized institute.
  A certificate course on information technology of  
  06 months/ 720 hours 07
  03 months/ 360 hours
  from a Government recognized institute. 05
 05. Proficiency in English Language :  15
  Post graduate/degree/post llB degree/llB degree studied 15
  in English medium.
  (all relevant question papers should be answered in English
  medium) 
  English language diploma from a university recognized 10
  by university Grants commission or an institution recognized
  by the Government. (01 year or 1500 hrs.)
  English Language Certificate course from a university recognized 
  by university Grants commission or an institution recognized
  by the Government.
  06 months/ 720 hours 07
  03 months/ 360 hours 05
  marks to be given by interview board for skills  05
    Total marks   100
07. Identity of Applicants.– only applicants who have submitted complete applications in every aspect will be 
called for the structured interview.
Original copies of all certificates and duly certified copies should be submitted at the interview.
Any of the following documents will be accepted to confirm the identity at the interview :
  (a) National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons ;
  (b) Valid passport.
 S. No. Subject Marks Maximum
    Marks

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1385
08.  Method of Application :
 i applications should be sent by registered post 
to reach the following address on or before 
25.07.2016, applications received after the due 
date will be rejected :
  Secretary,
  Ministry of Provincial councils & local 
   Government,
  No. 330, union Place,
  colombo 02.
 ii a  specimen application is given at the end of 
this notification. Applicants should prepare their 
applications using a4 size papers as item No. 01 
to No. 05 in first page and item No. 06 to No. 08 
in Second page in applicant's own hand writing. 
 iii the words "application for the Post of legal 
Officer" should be mentioned at the top left corner 
of the envelope enclosing the application.
 iV  the signature of the applicant should be attested 
by a Principal of a Government School/Justice 
of the Peace/a Commissioned Officer of three 
armed forces, a Gazetted Police Officer or 
an officer holding a permanent post in Public 
Service drawing a consolidated monthly salary of                      
Rs. 47,615  or above. 
 V candidates who are already in the Public or 
Provincial Public Services, should forward their 
applications through the respective Heads of their 
department in which they are serving at present.
 Vi the applications which are not conformed to the 
prescribed specimen application will be rejected. 
No complaints will be entertained on loss or delay 
of applications.
09. Furnishing  false particulars.– if any of the 
particulars furnished by you are found to be false or 
erroneous before the Recruitment, your candidature will 
be cancelled. in case such falsehood or error is detected 
after the recruitment, action will be taken to dismiss you 
from service, subject to relevant disciplinary actions being 
taken. 
•	 in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette  notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
on order of the Public Service commission,
 H. 
t. kamal Pathmasiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Provincial councils & 
 local Government.
colombo 02,
01st July, 2016.
(For Office Use Only)
REcRuitMENt foR tHE PoSt of 
lEGal officER 
MiNiStRy of PRoViNcial couNcilS aNd 
local GoVERNMENt
01.  1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––.
   (in block capitals)
  1.2 full Name :––––––––––.
   (in block capitals)
  1.3 full Name :––––––––––.
   (in Sinhala)
02.  2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
  2.2 telephone Number :   
Residence :––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––.
03.  3.1 Ethnicity :
   Sinhala - 1, tamil - 2, Muslim - 4, other - 5
  3.2 Gender : 
    female Male 
  3.3 Marital Status : 
    Married unmarried
  3.4 National identity card No. :
  3.5 date of Birth: 
   y ear :–––––– Month :––––––– date :–––––––. 
  3.6 age as at 25.07.2016 :
   y ears :––––– Months :–––––– days :–––––––.
04.  4.1 Educational Qualifications:
 (i) Effective date of the degree :––––––––––.
 (ii) university / institution :––––––––––.
 (iii) degree :––––––––––.
  4.2 Professional Qualifications and Experience:
 (i) Pass for English language obtained at 
G.c.E.(o/l) or G.c.E.(a/l) examination 
:––––––––––.
 (ii) Experience as a lawyer: ………… years 
05. Have you been convicted before a court of law? if 
"yes" explain with date and number of the case:––––.
06. Applicant's Certification:
 
 i do hereby certify that the particulars given by me 
in the application are true and correct. if any description 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1386
herein included is found to be false i am liable to be 
disqualified before selection and to dismissal without any 
compensation. if detected after the appointment.
  ––––––––––––,
  applicant's Signature.
date :––––––––––.
07. attestation of applicant's Signature:
 
 a Principal of a Government School/Justice of the 
Peace/a Commissioned Officer of three armed forces, a 
Gazetted Police Officer or an officer holding a permanent 
post in public service drawing a consolidated monthly 
salary of Rs. 47,615/- or above.
  i certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms……………………………
(full name), who is submitting this application is personally 
known to me, has paid the due examination fee, has attached 
the paid receipt and he/she has placed his/her signature in 
my presence on ………………………………….
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
 date :––––––––––.
 full Name of the attester :––––––––––.
 Position :––––––––––.
 address :––––––––––.
 (Should be supported by the official frank)
08. Report of the Head of the department if the applicant 
is in Public Service :
  i, certify that …………………… . (full Name) who 
is submitting this application is personally known to me 
and he/she has placed him/her signature in my presence on 
…………………
  i certify that his/her performance and conduct are 
………………………… He / She can be released from 
him / her present post.
    
 ––––––––––––,
 Head of the department.
 date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
 designation :––––––––––.
(Should be supported by the Official frank)
07–214
PubLIC  SERVICE  COmmISSION
ministry of Industry and Commerce
oPEN REcRuitMENt foR tHE PoSt of lEGal 
officER (ExEcutiVE catEGoRy - claSS iii)
aPPlicatioN are called from citizens of Sri lanka with 
the following qualifications for the vacant post of Legal 
Officer in the Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
01. Method of Recruitment.– out of the candidates with 
required qualifications, only the candidates, who score the 
highest marks at a structured interview conducted by a 
panel of interview board appointed by the Public Service 
commission, will be considered for appointment based 
on the number of vacancies available. the structured 
interview (details under section 6) will be conducted 
according to the marking scheme approved by the Public 
Service commission.
02.  Required Qualifications :-
 (i) Educational/ Professional qualifications :
  Should have a degree in law from a 
university recognized by the university Grant 
commission/ Sworn in as an attorney- at- law 
of the Supreme court.
 (ii) experience :
  Not less than three (03) years of active 
professional experience after sworning in  as an 
attorney- at- law of the Supreme court.
 (iii).  Physical fitness : 
  all candidates should be of sound mental and 
physical health to serve and fulfill the duties in 
any part of Sri lanka.
 (iv) Other qualifications :
 *  Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.
 *  Should be of an excellent moral character.
 *  Should have completed and obtained all 
qualifications required for the post before the 
closing date of applications.
03. Terms and Conditions of Service :-
 (i) this post is permanent. you should agree with 
any policy decision of the government on the 
pension scheme entitle to you.
 (ii) the appointme nt is subjected to a probation 
period of three (03) years. The first efficiency 
bar examination should be completed within 
three (03) years of the appointment as per the 
scheme of recruitment.
 (iii) Should earn the proficiency of the other 
official Language in addition to the language 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1387
of recruitment within five (05) years of the appointment as per Public Administration circular No. 01/ 2014 
dated 21.01.2014 and officer recruited by a media of non- official should earn the required official Language 
Proficiency within the probation period.
 (iv)  the appointment will be governed by the procedural rules of Public Service commission, the establishment 
code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka, its financial Regulations and other rules and regulations 
stipulated.
04. Age Limit.– applicants Should not less than 21 years of age and not more than 45 years of age as at closing 
date of application.
05. Salary Scale.– a monthly Salary of Rs. 47,615- 10x1,335- 8x1,630- 17x2,170- Rs. 110,895/- (Sl - 1-2016) 
is entitled to this post (the salary of sub list ii is entitled in accordance with regulations of Public administration circular 
No. 03/ 2016 dated 25.02.2016)
06. the following marking scheme will be used as a base for the structured interview :-
 Subject  Maximum 
  marks 
01 Additional Educational Qualifications :  20
  the degree in law received from a recognized university
   - for a first class 20
   - for a upper Second class 15
   - for a lower Second class 10
   - For a First Class of the final year of Law college 15
   - for a Second Class of the final years of Law collage 10
  Note: 10 marks to be given if only pass the final year with honors
   (Marks given only for the maximum qualification - either one of the 
   degree or Law College Qualification)
 
02. Additional Professional Qualifications:  15
  for a Post Graduate diploma or a Post Graduate law diploma
  of not less than one year duration in the relevant field obtained 
  from a recognized institution
  (05 marks for each diploma)
  for a diploma of not less than 06 months duration in the relevant 
  field obtained from a recognized institution 
  (03 marks for each diploma)
  For a Certificate Course of not less than 03 months duration in 
  the relevant field obtained from a recognized institution. 
  (02 marks for each course)
03.  Additional experiences :  30
  for an experience of more than 06 months and less than one year as an
  attorney- at- law in the Government Sector oR in the Private Sector 02 Marks
  Maximum 30 marks at 05 marks for each year
  (less than the 03 year service to obtain the basic requirement to 
  qualify as an attorney- at- law)
  (Additional experience should be ratified by a certificate
  obtained from an attorney- at- law with a service of not less
  than 20 years or a President's counsel or Judge of court of law)

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1388
04. Literacy on Information Technology :  15
  information technology (it) studied as a main subject for a degree in a 15
  university recognized by the university Grants commission (uGc)
  diploma course in it  of not less than 01 year duration in an 10 
  institution recognized by the Government or 1500 hours
  Certificate course in IT is an Institution recognized by the Government 
   - 06 months / 720 hours 07
   - 03 months / 360 hours 05
05. Language Proficiency :-  15
  Post Graduate degree/ degree/ Post Graduate degree in law/ degree 15
  in law - Studies in English Medium
  (all question papers of the related examination should have been 
  answered in English Medium)
  diploma course of English in a university recognized by the uGc 10 
  or in an institution recognized by the government (one year duration or 1500 hours)
  Certificate Course of English in a University recognized by the UGC 
  or in an institution recognized by the government
   - 06 months / 720 hours 07
   - 03 months / 360 hours 05
06. Performance at the interview  05
07. t otal Marks  100
07. Identity of the Candidate.– only candidates who submit applications in full compliance to this notice will be 
considered for the structured interview.
Originals and certified true copies of relevant certificates should be submitted at the interview.
only following identities will be accepted at the interview as a mean of verifying the identity of the candidate.
 (i)  National identity card (Nic) issued by the commissioner of the department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii)  Valid Passport
08. Submission of Applications :-
 (i)  all applications should be sent under registered cover addressed to the "Secretary", Ministry of industry 
and commerce, No. 73/ 1, Galle Road, colombo 03 to reach on or before 21.07.2016 applications 
received after that day will be rejected.
 (ii)  a  specimen of the application form to apply is shown at the end of this notice. all candidates should  
submit their applications in A4 size papers filled in their own handwriting and in the order of sections 
01 to 07 to be displayed in the front page of the application followed by sections 08 to 13 in the second 
page and the rest in the third page.
 (iii)  The title "Application for the Post of Legal Officer" should be mentioned on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope enclosing the application.
 Subject  Maximum 
  marks 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1389
 (iv)  candidates signature should be attested either 
by a Principle of a Government School/ Justice 
of Peace/ commissioner of oaths/ attorney- 
at- law/ Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer 
of the Armed Forces or by an Officer holding a 
permanent post in the government service and 
drawing a monthly consolidated salary of not 
less than Rs. 22,935.
 (v) candidates who are already in government 
service or in provincial government service 
should submit their applications through their 
respective heads of the institution.
 (vi) applications not in compliance with the 
specimen of the application given will be 
rejected. complaints with regard to lost or delay 
of applications will not be entertained.
09. Submission of false Information.– if the application 
submitted by any candidate is found to have false or 
incorrect information, their candidacy for the post will 
be cancelled. if that kind of information is revealed after 
recruitment, such will be dismissed from the service 
subject to relevant guidelines and regulations.
10. In such situations the right of filling or not filling the 
said vacancy is vested with the Public Service  commission.
 By order of the Public Service commission.
 Secretary,
 Ministry of industry and commerce.
No. 73/ 1, Galle Road,
colombo 03,
13th of June, 2016.
sPecimen of the aPPlication form
  
 (office use only)
ministry of industry and commerce
APPLICATION FOR The POST OF LeGAL OFFICeR 
(ExECutIvE CAtEGORy - CLASS III)
01.  Name of the applicant :-
 1.1 Name with initials to appear last (in English 
capitals) :–––––––––––.
 1.2 Name in full (in English capitals) :–––––––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/ tamil)  :–––––––––––.
 1.4 if you are already in Government Service, has your 
name been changed after entering government  
service ? :–––––––––––.
  if yes, please mention your Name earlier :––––––.
02.  address and telephone number :
 2.1 if in government service, the name and the address 
of the department/ Section (in English capitals) 
:–––––––––.
 2.2 the Name and the address of the department/ 
Section (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––.
 2.3 Private address (in English capitals) :–––––––––.
 2.4 Private address (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––.
 2.5 telephone number :–––––––––.
 2.6 Mobile telephone number :–––––––––.
03.  date of Birth :
 
  y ear : Month : date :
04.  age as at the date of closing :
  y ears : Months : days : 
05.  National identity card (Nic) number : 
06.  Gender : 
  female  - 1
   Male  - 2
07.  Married/ unmarried/ Widowed : 
  Married  - 1
  unmarried  - 2
  Widowed  - 3
08.  Educational Qualifications : 
(a) 8.1 university/ institute, which the degree in law 
obtained :––––––––––.
 8.2 Name of the degree :––––––––––.
 8.3 date the degree was awarded :––––––––––.
 8.4 General/ Special :––––––––––.
 8.5 class :––––––––––.
 8.6 Medium of language :––––––––––.
(b) date sworn in as an attorney- at- law of the 
Supreme court :––––––––––.
09.  Professional Qualifications :
  exam/  Year Subject Level of Name of the
  Diploma   Pass Institution/
      University 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1390
10.  Experience :
  Institution Designation Period of service
  served
 
11.  Proficiency in English :
 11.1  degree :––––––––––.
 11.2  diploma :––––––––––.
 11.3  Certificate Course :––––––––––.
12. Qualifications in IT :
 12.1 degree :––––––––––.
 12.2 diploma :––––––––––.
 12.3 certi ficate Course :––––––––––.
13. Other educational qualifications (Postgraduate/ 
Diplomas/ Other Language Proficiencies) :
  Degree/ Year Subject Level Institution/
  Diploma/   of Pass University
  Others
14. Have you been convicted of any offence in a court of 
law ? :––––––––––.
15.  declaration by the applicant :
i declare that the information provided on this application 
by me is true & correct. i am aware that any information 
furnished herewith is found to be false or incorrect, i will 
be liable to be disqualified for the post if found before 
selection and to dismissal without compensation if found 
after appointment.
 –––––––––––––,  
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
16. attesting applicant signature :
Mr./ Ms……………… who is submitting an application 
for the post of Legal Officer in the Ministry of Industry and 
commerce is known to me personally and i declare that he/ 
she placed his/ her signature in my presence on the…….of 
the month of…….2016.
    
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the person attesting.
date :–––––––––––.
Place :–––––––––––.
Name of the Person attesting :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
Certification by the Head of Department/ Institution
(this only refers to applicants already in government 
service)
i hereby certify that the conduct of work and behavior 
of Mr./ Ms…….. who serve this Ministry/ department/ 
institution in the capacity of a…….is satisfactory and there 
is no disciplinary action or inquiry against him/ her and 
there is no such intension even. if he/ she is selected for the 
post he/ she could/ could not be released from the present 
service.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the  
 Department and Official seal.
date :––––––––––––.
07–187
––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERVICE COmmISSION
ministry of Education
V acaNciES of tHE claSS 1 of tHE SRi laNKa 
tEacHER EducatoR'S SERVicE
aPPlicatioNS are entertained by the Secretary to the 
Ministry of Education for filling the vacancies of the Class 
1 of the Sri lanka teacher Educator's Service exist as at 
the following days in the National colleges of Education 
under the purview of the Ministry of Education.
 Date No. of  Vacancies
01.01.2014 3
01.07.2014 2
total 5
02. the applications prepared according to the 
following specimen form in the notification should be sent 
by Registered post to reach the Secretary , Ministry of 
Education, isurupaya, Battaramulla on or before 29
th July 
2016. the term, " Vacancies in the class 1 of the Sri lanka 
teacher Educator's Service " should be mentioned on the 

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1391
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing applications. 
all the applications should forward their applications 
through the respective Heads of the institutions. the 
applications received after due  date will be rejected.
03. Conditions of employing in the Service :
 3.1  the selected applicants will be appointed to 
the class 1 of the Sri lanka teacher Educator's 
Service subjected to the general conditions 
pertaining to the appointments in the public 
Service and rules and regulations stipulated 
in the Sri lanka teacher Educator's Service 
Minute and revisions made from time to 
time in relation to such rules and regulations, 
Establishments code, financial Regulations 
and the procedural rules of the Public Service 
commission published in the Gazette extra- 
Ordinary No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
 3.2 the selected applicants should reside within 
the limits of the National college of Education 
when residential facilities have been provided.
 3.3  the candidates selected for the Posts are bound 
to serve in any of the National college of 
Education as per the exigencies of the Service.
 3.4  your attention is drawn to the general 
conditions in relation to the appointments of 
the Public Service mentioned in the part 1 of 
the Gazette.
04. General Qualifications :
 4.1  Obtaining a Credit Pass or a higher certificate 
for the English language/ English literature 
in the G.c.E (o/l) or in a similar Examination 
for getting qualifications for applying for the 
promotion, unless the applicant has obtained 
the degree in the English Medium according 
to the Section 17 of the Sri lanka teacher 
Educator's Service.
05. Educational and the Other Qualifications :
 5.1  applicants should have completed a 
satisfactory service of 05 years from the 
effective date of the Promotion to the Grade 
2-1 of the Sri lanka teacher Educator's 
Service and
 5.2   Applicants should have obtained a first class 
or second class (upper) degree in Education 
from a recognized university or a higher 
degree in Education ; or
 5.3  applicants should have obtained a degree in 
the relevant subject field from a recognized 
university and should have obtained a 
Post Graduate diploma in Education with 
a distinction or credit or a Pass or should 
have obtained a Post Graduate degree in the 
relevant subject field; or
 5.4  Applicants should have obtained a first or 
second class (upper) degree from a recognized 
university and a Post Graduate diploma in 
Education or a Post Graduate degree in the 
relevant Subject field or Education.
06. Salary Scale :
 6.1  the salary scale of Rs. 22,935-10x 
645-8x790-17x1,050-53,555 Monthly) under 
the Salary category of Sl  1-2006 as per the 
Public administration circular No. 06/2006 is 
applicable to this post.
07. Method of Selection :
 7.1  Selection will be done on a results of a 
Structured interview conducted according 
to the Marking scheme approved by the 
commission by a Board of interviewers 
approved by a Public Service commission.
 7.2  the original copies of the following 
documents should be submitted at the instance 
of the interview.
 7.2.1  Certificate of Birth (the Certificate of 
Birth or Certificate of Baptism issued 
under the law of admitting to assisted 
Schools.)
 7.2.2  Degree certificates or the other 
Certificates in relation to educational 
Qualifications 
 7.2.3  Certificates regarding the Professional 
Qualifications
 7.2.4  Highest Certificates achieved in relation 
to the knowledge in Sinhala, English 
and tamil languages.
 7.3  the Public Service commission reserves the 
right of filling or not filling the total number of 
vacancies or any part thereof.
 7.4  applicants should have completed a 
satisfactory service by not subjected to 
a disciplinary action and earning all the 
increments during the period of five years 
immediately prior to the date of the creation of 
each vacancy.
 7.5  the applicants who are unable to produce the 
necessary documents at the interview will not 
be considered.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1392
N.B.– Any Certificate or any copy should not be annexed to the Application.
 By order of the Public Service commission,
 W. M. bandusena,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
on 10th May, 2016.
the marking scheme for Promoting the officers in grade 2-1 of the sri lanka teacher 
educator's service to the class 1 of the service
For the marks to be awarded, the relevant qualification should have been completed before the date on which the 
vacancy occurred.
01. Work Experience : Maximum Marks 60
   12  Marks per year will be offered for the additional active service of the officers who 
  Exceed 5 years of service after being promoted to Grade 2-1 of the Sri lanka teacher
  Educator's Service.
02.  Additional Educational Qualification Maximum Marks 12
      (Marks will be offered only for qualifications additional to the educational 
     Qualifications which are required for applying for Class 1 of the Sri Lanka 
       t eacher Educator's Service)
  2.1  Doctor of Philosophy ( In a relevant field) 12
  2.2  Post Graduate Degree (In a relevant field) 10
  2.3  Post Graduate diploma (Non Education or Education management)  05
03. Proficiency in English Language : Maximum Marks 06
 (Marks will be offered only for qualifications in addition to the qualifications 
 Considered under 4.1 of the notification of calling applications for promoting to 
 class 1.)
  3.1  English as a subject of the degree/ Having read the degree in the English medium 06
 3.2 distinction/Very Good Pass for English language at the G.c.E. (a. level) 05
 3.3 credit pass for English language at the G.c.E (a.level) 04
 3.4 General Pass for English language at the G.c.E( a.level) 03
 3.5 distinction/ Very Good Pass for English language at the G.c.E (o.level) 02
 3.6 credit Pass for English language at the G.c.E( o.level) 01
04. communication Skills Maximum Marks 02
 Second language communication Skills
05. Knowledge in information and communication technology Maximum Marks 05
 (Marks will be issued only to certificates obtained from a University or an 
 institution registered in the tertiary and V ocational Education commission)
  5.1  Post Graduate degree for information and communication technology 05
  5.2  degree for the information and communication technology 05
 5.3 Having Studied the information and communication technology as a subject  04
       for the degree.
 5.4 diploma course in information and communication technology (one year or 03
        More than that) 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1393
 5.5 Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology (More than  02
        06 Months)
 5.6 Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology (Up to 06 Months) 01
06. contribution for the development of teacher Education Maximum Marks 10
 6.1 Office Bearers in Societies and Committees belong to the administration of  02
       colleges of Education / active contribution in the programmer related to the 
       development of institution, rendering free services( Shramadhana), festivals,
       Exhibitions and Workshops.
 6.2 implementation of various Projects in relation to the development and education 02
       of the National colleges of Education and introduction of novel concepts/ 
       contribution for the periodicals and researches.
 6.3 implementation of Programmes in feeder schools of the colleges of Education 02
 6.4 contribution for the Programmes implemented with the National institute of 02
        Education/development of curricula
 6.5 covering of duties in the Post of President/ Principal of teacher's training 02
        colleges (1/2 Marks per year)
07. academic Performance Maximum Marks 10
 7.1 Researches and tutorials (Researches and tutorials submitted for degree/  02
       Post Graduate degree/ Post Graduate diploma or doctor of Philosophy are 
       not applicable under this)
 7.2 Publications (in relation to the field of Education 02
 7.3 appreciation of Services issued by the Secretary to the Ministry of Education or the 03
      Head of the department through the formal format as per the Establishments code.
    t otal Marks 100
   
v acancies in class 1 of the sri lanka teacher educator's service model aPPlication form
(the application should be prepared on an a 4 size paper using both sides of the paper)
01.  (i)  Name with initials(Rev/Mr/Mrs/Miss) :––––––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals)
 (ii)  Names denoted by initials  :––––––––––––.
02. (i)  Official address  :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Private address  :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Private telephone No.   :––––––––––––.
03. (i)  date of Birth  :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  National identity card Number  :––––––––––––.
04. (i)  Date of first appointment and the Designation  :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Present post and date of appointment to that post  :––––––––––––.
 (iii)  Present work place  :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1394
05. Particulars regarding academic and Professional 
qualifications :
 (i) first degree:
 Name of the Degree and the Year Class Subjects
  Institution of awarding 
  the Degree
 (ii) Post Graduate degree:
  
 Name of Certificate  y ear Class Whether 
 and awarding    Distinction/Credit
 Institution   or Ordinary Pass
 (iii) Post Graduate diploma in Education :
 Name of  Duration of Whether  Particulars
 Certificate the course Distinction/ regarding 
 and awarding  Credit or the subjects
 Institution  Ordinary
   Pass
   
 
 (iv)  Other professional Qualifications (Particulars 
regarding Diploma certificates and Trained  
Teachers Certificate)
 
 Name of Certificate Duration of Particulars
 and awarding course regarding the
 Institution  subjects
 (v) Proficiency in the English Language :
 G. C. e.  Whether Distinction/ Date of validity
 (O/L) Credit or Ordinary of results
  Pass
 the highest Certificate  Awarding Institution Grade
 obtained in relation and date of validity 
 to the english 
 Language 
 (vi) Experience  and particulars regarding the service 
(indicate the designations held previously and the 
duration of holding such designation with dates 
and periods)
  Department/  Designation Permanent/ From To
  Institution  Temporary
06. 6.1  Have you ever been convicted from a court of 
law for an offence? (if so, give details).
  6.2  is there an on-going department disciplinary 
inquiry against you at present? or else whether 
there is a case pending at the court of law? (if 
so, give details).
 6.3  i certify that to the best of my knowledge all 
the particulars that i have furnished in this 
application are true are correct. i am aware that 
if any particulars provided here are found to 
be untrue and incorrect, i will be considered as 
unsuitable to be appointed to this post, and that, 
if any particulars herein provided are found to 
be untrue or incorrect, i am liable to be removed 
from the post without any compensation.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Institution
the application of .......................................is 
forwarded herewith. it is hereby informed that he/she/ the 
Reverend is serving/ had been served in this institution as a 
........................... .......and retired on .........................
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official Frank of the Head of 
 department/ institution.
date :–––––––––––.
institution :–––––––––––.
07–209

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1395
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  Of 
SRI  LANkA  AyuRVEDIC  mEDICAL  
SERVICE - 2016(I)
IT is hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Ayurvedic Medical Service (for Ayurvedic Medical Officers) will 
be held in colombo by the department of ayurveda. 
01. candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner of ayurveda. 
02. the application for this examination should be in the 
form of the specimen appendix to this notification and should 
be prepared by the candidate him/herself. application should be 
sent by those who are qualified according to the Service Minute 
of the Sri lanka ayurvedic Medical Service, by the registered 
post through the respective Heads of the institution to reach 
the "Registrar, Examination division, department of ayurveda, 
Nawinna, Maharagama" on or before 15.07.2016. "Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Sri lanka ayurvedic Medical Service - 2016(i)" 
should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application. applications received after the closing 
date will be rejected. 
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first 
time need not to pay examination fees. However, stamps to the 
value of  Rs. 200 should be affixed for the whole examinations for 
subsequent sittings and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 per subject 
should be affixed if not applying for the whole examination. 
the stamp should be duly cancelled by placing signature of the 
candidate and the date. under any circumstance the fees will not 
be refunded or transferred. 
03. Identity of the Candidates.– candidates will be required to 
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose one of 
the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
 (i) the National identity card issued by department of 
Registration of Persons ; 
 (ii) a  valid passport. 
 04. the commissioner, department of ayurveda will issue the 
timetable and admission card to all candidates whose applications 
have been accepted. candidates should get their signature on the 
admission card attested in advance and submit to the supervisor 
of the examination hall. candidates without admission cards will 
not be permitted to sit for the examination. if a candidate has not 
received his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before 
the day of examination, he/she should without delay inform the 
"Registrar, Examination division, department of ayurveda, 
Nawinna, Maharagama" about the non-receipt of admission cards 
along with the following information :
 (i) Name of the Examination :–
 (ii) full Name of the candidate :–
 (iii) Postal address :–
 (iv) Name of the Post Office, Registration Number and 
date of the Receipt :–
05. Scheme of examination (according to the Service Miniute 
of the Sri lanka ayurvedic Medical Service) :–
 (i) Financial Regulation  - one paper based on the 
following :
 (i) financial Regulation of the democratic Socialist 
Repubilc of Sri lanka Part i (Except chapter x).
 (ii) establishment Code - one paper based on the 
following :
 (i) chapters - i, ii, iii, iV , V , Vi, Vii, Viii, xii, 
xiii, xiV , xxiii, xxVii, xxix, xxx, xxxii 
of the V olume i of the Establishment code of 
the democratic Socialsit Republic of Sri lanka 
and Procedural Rules code of the Public Service 
commission. 
 (ii) chapters - xl Vii and xl Viii of Part ii of the 
Establishment code of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka. 
 (iii) hospital Administration - one paper based on the 
following :
 (i) General rules and regulations relevant to the 
hospitals.
 (ii) cleanliness in hospital. 
 (iii) Rules and regulations relevant to the patients. 
 (iv) Supply proper meals to the patients.
 (v) administration of drug manufactures. 
 (vi) Rules and Regulations regarding the admission of 
patients. 
 (vii) Knowledge of the duties of all the employees in the 
hospitals. 
 (viii) General administration in hospitals. 
 (ix) General administration of the department of 
ayurveda. 
 (x) Regulation of the stores accounts of the department 
of ayurveda. 
 (xi) Manual of Procedure of the department of 
ayurveda. 
 (iV) Official Languages - oral test. Sinhala/t amil (15 
minutes) :
 (i) For officers who joined the service in Sinhala 
medium :–
   (a) answering the tamil questions in tamil 
languages.
   (b) t ranslate tamil sentences to Sinhala language. 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1396
   (c) t ranslate Sinhala sentences to tamil language. 
 (ii)  For officers who joined the service in Tamil 
medium :–
   (a) answering the Sinhala questions in Sinhala 
language.
   (b) t ranslate Sinhala sentences to tamil langauge. 
   (c) t ranslate tamil sentences to Sinhala language. 
 
Note.– candidate must obtain at least 40 marks to pass 
in each subject. 
 l. h. tilakarathna, 
 commissioner of ayurveda,
 department of ayurveda.
department of ayurveda, 
Nawinna, 
Maharagama,
14th June, 2016. 
Specimen Application form 
EfficiENcy BaR ExaMiNatioN of SRi laNKa 
ayuRVEdic MEdical SERVicE – 2016(i)
 index No. : 
 (For office use only)
 Medium of Examination :
 
 (Write the relevant letter in the cage)
 Sinhala – S  t amil – t
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––––.
 (in English capital letters)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil)
03. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
 (in English capital letters)
04. Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
 (in Sinhala/tamil letters)
05. National identity card No. : 
06. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute (In 
English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) Province of the Office/Department/Institute :–––––––––.
07. (i) Name and address of the Office/Department/Institute (In 
Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii) Telephone No. (Official) :–––––––––––––.
08.  (i) Post :–––––––––––––.
  (ii) Number and date of the letter of appointment :–––––––.
09. Subject/Subjects you wish to face : 
 Serial Number Subject Subject Number
10. Have you passed one or more subjects from any of the 
following subjects in previous examination sittings. financial 
Regulations/Establishments code/Hospitals Management/
oral Examination (tamil/Sinhala). 
 if so, index No., year and Month :
  Subject Index No. Year and Month
11. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––.
 If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––––.
 Stamp cage : 
Stamp to the value of Rs. 200 for the whole 
examination and Rs. 50 for each subject
Note.– The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant 
value and cancel them by placing their signature and 
date. Stamps should not overlap each other. 
i declare that the above particulars are true that i am eligible 
to appear for the examination, in the language medium indicated 
above. I also certify that the Rs. .......................... stamps affixed 
hereto are genuine and have not been used before. i agree to abide 
by the rules and regulations of this examination. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of thecandidate. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– the candidate should sign in the presence of the Head 
of his/her Department/Institute or an officer authorized to 
sign on behalf of such Head of the department. 
Attestation of the Signature 
i do hereby certify that .......................... who forward this 
application is an officer attached to my Office/known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature before me on 
.................
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature and rubber stamp
  of the attestor. 
Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
07–222

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1397
WRITTEN ExAmINATION TO TEST 
COmPuTER LITERACy AND EffICIENCy 
bAR ExAmINATION fOR OffICERS 
IN CLASS III Of GRAmA NILADhARI 
SERVICE-2016
it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
and a written test in computer skills for the officers in 
class iii of Grama Niladhari Service will be held by the 
department of Examinations Sri lanka, in the month of 
october in 2016 as per the approved service minute of 
Grama Niladhari Service, and the applications are called 
for the Examination.
2.0 This examination for officers in Class III of the 
Grama Niladhari Service will be held only in colombo, 
Kandy,  Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, 
trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, 
Badulla, Rathnapura and Kilinochchi. Numbers relevant 
to each town is indicated in the below table. Examination 
will be held only in the towns determined for the purpose. 
the list of relevant towns and town numbers are given 
below. the relevant section of the application should be 
filled by referring to the table of towns and town numbers 
given below. it will not be allowed to change subsequently 
the town/ towns indicated. any centre menti oned above 
can be canceled due to insufficiency of candidates and the 
candidates can be directed to a nearby centre.
 town  town No.
 colombo 01
 Kandy 02
 Galle 03
 Matara 04
 Jaffna 05
 Mannar 06
 Mullaitivu 07
 t rincomalee 08
 Batticaloa 09
 Kurunegala 10
 anuradhapura 11
 Badulla 12
 Rathnapura 13
 Kilinochchi 14
details on the divisional secretariat and the included 
districts are indicated in the Schedule 01. the applicants 
should clearly indica te the divisional secretariat and the 
allocated number as well as the district and the allocated 
number in the relevant place of the application as specified 
in the Schedule. changing of such information at a later 
stage will not be allowed. No any request with regard to a 
loss caused to the applicant for incorrectly mentioning the 
said information will not be considered and the applications 
without the divisional secretariat and the division number 
mentioned will be rejected.
3.0 (i)  this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same.
 (ii)  the rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner- 
General of Examination for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
4.0 eligibility.– Officers who have been recruited to 
Grade iii of Grama Niladhari Service as per the Procedure 
of Recruitment effective from 29.09.2010 are eligible to 
appear for this Examination.
5.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit for 
a written examination, which will consist of the following 
subjects :–
 Subject Subject Marks Duration
  No.
1. Office systems and 01 100 2 hours
  accounts
2. Subject Related 02 100 2 hours
  Profeesional Knowledge
3. computer test 03 100 1 1/2 hours
 5.1 Office Systems, and Accounts (Subject No. 01)
  Office Systems
  it is intended to test the candidate’s ability to 
apply the basic knowledge on office systems 
used in Grama Niladhari office and other 
government offices, ability to understand official 
letters and documents properly and to present 
his/ her opinions/ observations through brief 
notes and the ability to draft a report on subject 
related matters. 
  accounts
  it is intended to test the candidates of their 
knowledge on basic accounts and accounts 
systems used in the duties related to Grama 
Niladhari Service  and other government 
offices, functions of cash control accounts and 
procurement procedures.
  Part i- consists of a short answer test. Questions 
should be answered in the paper itself. 
Should answer all questions (25 marks)
  Part ii- a paper consisting of 03 structured essay 
type questions. all 03 questions should 
be answered. (75 marks)

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1398
  5.2 Subject related professional Knowledge (Subject 
No. 02)
   this paper is designed to test knowledge of 
Grama Niladhari on the duties entrusted to 
him by various acts and regulations, ministries, 
departments provincial councils and other 
statutory institutions of the government.
  
Part i - consists of a short answer test. 
Questions should be answered in 
the paper itself. Should answer all 
questions (25 marks)
Part ii-  a  paper consisting of 03 structured 
essay type questions. all 03 
questions should be answered. (75 
marks)
  5.3 Computer test (Subject No. 03)
   the objective of this is to test whether the 
candidates is having following skills.
  Basic concepts of 
information technology  
  Windows operating System
  folder Management
Word Processing file Management
 Basic skills, screen 
familiarization, editing texts,
 aligning text, fonts and 
attributes, indenting 
paragraphs, change of line 
spacing,
 Tab setting, finding and 
replacing text,  spelling 
and grammar, thesaurus, 
working with columns, page 
setup, printing  documents, 
creating tables. Sorting 
texts, file  management, 
mail merging, working with 
macros
Spreadsheets  Basic skills, formatting, 
editing, columns and ranges, 
insertion and deletion, 
sorting data, creating charts, 
printing, @ function, 
working  with macros, file 
management
data Base introduction, Basic skills, 
designing data base and use
  formats,
  Queries, pop up forms,
  dialog and message boxes
  Sorting
  obtaining reports
  use of macro 
Presentation/  Basic Skills, editing, 
illustrations  formatting
 applying designs, inserting 
images,
 clip art and Graphs
 Slide transition and effects,
 animations
 using Presentation tools
 Preparing Masters, Printing 
slides and notes
 
internet introduction to internet, world 
wide web, 
 How to navigate, Practical 
internet
 
Email introduction, basic skills, 
receiving mail,  sending 
mail, responding to mails, 
working with attachments, 
creating and using 
nicknames, composing 
messages,
this paper consists of two parts.
 Part i - 40 Multiple choice Questions/ short 
answer questions time 45 Minutes (40 
Marks)
 Part ii - 05 Semi Structured questions. time 45 
Minutes (60 Marks)
Note.- Officers those who have obtained computer 
operating license awarded by National apprentice 
and industrial training authority and those 
who have obtained certificates (of which the 
recognition is equivalent or higher to computer 
operating license) on theory and practical 
knowledge of computer technology issued by the 
institutions recognized by tertiary Education and 
V ocational Education commission as per para 08 
of annex 2 of Recruitment Procedure for Grama 
Niladharies dated 29.09.2010 shall be exempted 
from the requirement of passing this computer 
test. Further, officers who have obtained the 
certificate of Computer application assistant 
(NVQ - level 3) offered by National apprentice 
and industrial training authority shall also be 
exempted from the written test.
6.0 the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English medium and candidates should answer question 
paper in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the relevant service or in an official 
language. in case of candidates who entered the service 
without a competitive Examination, both papers should be 
answered in the language medium of their education or in 
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the 
language medium of examination applied for, subsequently.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1399
7.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject and 
at different occasions at their discretion. However, they 
should score at least 40% of the total marks allocated for 
each subject for pass. the date on which the examination 
held for the candidate to complete all the subjects shall 
be treated as the date of passing the Efficiency Bar 
Examination.
8.0 the results of the examination will be issued by 
the commissioner General of Examination to me and 
action will be taken to notify the applicants the names of 
the candidates who have passed the examination through 
district Secretaries and divisional Secretaries.
9.0 the application for this examination should be in 
the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepare by the candidates him/ her self. 
applications should be sent by the Registered post through 
divisional Secretariat of their division Secretariat division 
to reach the Commissioner- General of Examinations, 
Organization and foreign Examinations branch, 
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, P.O box 
1503, Colombo, on or before 01st august 2016. the 
name of the examination should be indicated at the top left 
hand corner of the envelope containing the application. 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected. 
incomplete applications, too, will not be accepted.
10.0 Identity of the Candidates.– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they 
offer. for this purpose one of the following documents, 
along with the admission card issued by the department 
of Examinations on which the signature has been certified 
should be submitted to the supervisor.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registrations of Persons.
 (ii) a valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner - General of Examinations.
11.0 Applications.- applications should be prepared in 
a paper of a4 size using both sides of the paper in such 
a manner that Title Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appears on the first 
page and 6.0 and 7.0 on the second page. the application 
could be typewritten but it should be filled in correctly 
and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting. application 
should strictly conform to the specimen appended and 
candidates are advised not to sent more than one application 
or photocopies. applications that do not comply with the 
specimen and that have not been perfected properly will 
be rejected without notice. Please indicate the title of the 
examination appearing the specimen in English language 
as well, on both Sinhala and tamil application forms. it 
is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfected by him/her complies with the 
specimen given in the examination notice and further it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form.
12.0 Officers appearing for the examination for the 
first time need not pay examination fees. However, for 
subsequent sitting, Rs. 400/= for the whole examination or 
two (02) subjects and Rs. 200/= for only one subject should 
be paid at any Post/ Sub Post Office island-wide to be 
credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examinations. the receipt obtained in favor 
of the applicant should be affixed to the relevant cage of 
the applications form. it is advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt with the candidate. it will not be allowed to 
transfer the fee paid for this examination in favor of another. 
further, no stamps or money orders for the examination fee 
will be accepted.
13.0 the commissioner- General of Examinations will 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all 
candidates whose applications have been received. issuance 
of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily 
mean that the candidate has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit the examination. candidates should get their signature 
on the admission card attested in advance and surrender 
to the supervisor of the examination hall. A notification 
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates. if the admission card 
is not received at least before 05 days to the examination, 
it shall be inquired from the organizations and foreign 
Examinations Branch, department of Examinations of 
Sri lanka as stipulated in the advertisement. When such 
an inquiry is made name of the examination applied 
for, full name of the applicant, National identity card 
No. and address should be clearly mentioned. in case of 
applicants outside colombo, it will be more effective to 
send a letter of request to the fax number mentioned in 
the said advertisement furnishing a fax number to which 
the admission card should be sent. it would be advisable 
to keep a copy of the application form kept at applicant’s 
possession, copy of the receipt of examination fees and the 
receipt of registering the letter, in order to prove certain 
matters inquired by the department of Examinations.
14.0 the Heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations, 
enabling them to appear for the examination. No traveling 
expenses will be paid.
15.0 the candidates are subjected to the rules and 
regulations on the conduct of the examination imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examination. the candidates 
are liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations and my decision 
shall be the final, in respect of any matter not provided for 
in this notification.
16.0 in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
 J.J.
ratnasiri,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Home affairs.
Ministry of Home affairs,
independent Squire,
colombo-07,
on 09th
   June, 2016.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1400
(For office use only)
Specimen form of Application
 
EfficiENcy BaR ExaMiNatioN aNd WRittEN 
ExaMiNatioN to tESt coMPutER litERacy 
foR officERS iN claSS iii of GRaMa 
NiladHaRi  SERVicE - 2016
  town t own No.
 first choice 1. 
 Second choice 2. 
( indicate the name and the number of the town in which 
you wish to sit for the examination, in the order of your 
choice, as per the para No .2.0 in the Gazette notification.)
Medium of examination :
Sinhala  - 2
tamil  - 3
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(this cannot be changed subsequently)
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full ( in English Block capitals):–––––.
  (eg. HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN 
KuMa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 last Name With initials at the end :–––––––––.
  (in English Block capitals) 
  (eg. GuNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K.) 
 1.3 Name in full  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
 
2.0 2.1 address to which the admission card should be 
sent  :–––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)
 2.2 district and the district number to which the 
officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English 
Block capitals)
 2.3 divisional Secretariat and divisional Secretariat 
number to which the officer is attached :––––. 
  (indicate as per the Schedule i) (in English 
Block capitals)
 2.4 district and the divisional Secretariat to which 
the officer is attached  :–––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/ tamil)
3.0 3.1 National identity card No. :
 3.2 Sex :-
  female  - 1
  Male  - 0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
 3.3 date of Birth :-  
  y ear :      Month : date :
 4.0  Subject/s you offer on this sitting (Refer Para. 
5.0 of the Gazette Notification):
  Index No. Subject Subject No.
   01.
   02.
   03.
5.0 5.1 Grade :––––––––.
 5.2 Post :––––––––.
 5.3 date of appointment to the relevant Grade :––––.
 5.4 t elephone No. :––––––––.
6.0 N.B.- the receipt of the examination fee obtained from 
the Post/ Sub Post Office in favour of the applicant 
should be affixed here firmly : 
 
  Receipt No. :–––––––––.
  Post/sub post Office :–––––––––.
  date :–––––––––.
  amount Rs. :–––––––––.
7.0 i declare that the above particulars are true and that i 
am eligible to appear the examination in the language 
medium indicated above. further, i agree to be bound by 
the rules and regulations issued by the commissioner-
General of Examinations regarding this examination. 
And I affirm that I sit for the said examination as my 
first sitting/ I have paid the relevant examination fee 
and the receipt has been affixed hereto.
  ––––––––––––,
  Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––.
 Certification of the Divisional Secretary
i am certify that Mr/Mrs/Miss ...................................
............ Grama Niladhari, who works at Gama Niladhari 
division of  ................................. in divisional secretary’s 
division of .......................................................and
 (i) has placed his/her signature in my presence ;
 (ii) have checked the details provided above ;
 (iii) the officer is eligible to sit for this examination :

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1401
 (iv) the officer is exempted from the examination 
fee since the first sitting/the recepit of the 
prescribed examination fee is affixed here 
(delete inapplicable words)
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 divisional Secretary.
Name :–––––––––.
designation :–––––––––.
address:–––––––––.
date:–––––––––.
ScHEdulE i
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
colombo 1103
Kolonnawa 1106
Kaduwela 1109
Homagama 1112
Hanwella 1115 colombo
Padukka 1118
Maharagama 1121 0   1
Sri Jayawardanapura 1124
 Kotte
thimbirigasyaya 1127
dehiwala 1130
Rathmalana 1131
Moratuwa 1133
Kesbewa 1136
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Negombo 1203
Katana 1206
divulapitiya 1209
Meerigama 1212
Minuwangoda 1215 Gampaha
Wattala 1218
Ja-Ela 1221 0       2
Gampaha 1224
attanagalla 1227
dompe 1230
Mahara 1233
Kelaniya 1236
Biyagama 1239
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Panadura 1303
Bandaragama 1306
Horana 1309
ingiriya 1310
Bulathsinghela 1312 Kalutara
Madurawala 1315
Millaniya 1318 0     3
Kalutara 1321
Beruwala 1324
dodangoda 1327
Mathugama 1330
agalawatta 1333
Palindanuwara 1336
Walallawita 1339
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
thumpane 2103
Poojapitiya 2106
akurana 2109
Pathadumbara 2112
Panwila 2115
ududumbara 2118
Minipe 2121 Kandy
Medadumbara 2124
Kundasale 2127 0      4
Gangawata Korale 2130
Harispattuwa 2133
Hataraliyadda 2134
yatinuwara 2136
udunuwara 2139
doluwa 2142
Pathahewaheta 2145
delthota 2148
udapalatha 2151
Gangaihala Korale 2154
Pasbage Korale 2157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Galewela 2203
dambulla 2206 Matale
Naula 2209 
Pallepola 2212 0       5
yatawatta  2215   

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1402
Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Matale 2218
ambangaga Korale 2221 Matale
laggala Pallegama 2224
Wilgamuwa 2227 0     5
Raththota 2230
ukuwela 2233
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kothmale 2303 Nuwara
Haguranketha 2306 Eliya
Walapane 2309 
Nuwara Eliya 2312 0     6
ambagamuwa 2315
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Benthota 3103
Balapitiya 3106
Karandeniya 3109
Elpitiya 3112
Niyagama 3115
thawalama 3118
Neluwa 3121 Galle
Nagoda 3124
Baddegama 3127 0      7
Welivitiya divithura 3130
ambalangoda 3133
Hikkaduwa 3136
Gravets 3139
Bope Poddala 3142
akmeemana 3145
yakkalamulla 3148
imaduwa 3151
Gonapeenuwala 3154
Habaraduwa 3157
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Pitabeddara 3203 Matara
Kotapola 3206
Pasgoda 3209 0    8
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mulatiyana 3212
athuruliya 3215
akuressa 3218
Welipitiya 3221 Matara
Malimbada 3224
Kamburupitiya 3227 0    8
Hakmana 3230
Kirinda Puhulwella 3233
thihagoda 3236
Weligama 3239
Matara 3242
devinuwara 3245
dikwella 3248
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Sooriyawewa 3303
lunugamwehera 3306
thissamaharama 3309
Hambanthota 3312 Hambanttota
ambalanthota 3315
angunakolapelessa 3318 0    9
Weeraketiya 3321
Katuwana 3324
okewela 3327
Beliatta 3330
tangalle 3333
Walasmulla 3336
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kayts (island North) 4103
chankanei (Walikamum 
 West) 4106
Sandilipay (Walikamum 
 South West) 4109
thelippalei  Jaffna
 (Walikamum North) 4112
uduvil (Walikamum  1    0
 South) 4115
Kopai (Walikamum East) 4118
Karaweddi (Wadamarachchi  
 South West) 4121
Maruthankerny 
 (Wadamarachchi East) 4124

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1403
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Point Pedro 4127
 (Wadamarachchi North)
chawakachcheri  Jaffna
 (thenmarachchi) 4130
Nallur 4133 1     0
Jaffna 4136
Velanai (island South) 4139
delft 4142
Kareinagar 4145
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mannar 4203
Manthai West 4206 Mannar
Madu 4209
Nanaddan 4212 1     1
Musali 4215
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Vavuniya North 4303 Vavuniya
Vavuniya South 4306
Vavuniya 4309 1     2
Vengalacheddikulam 4312
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
thunukkai 4403
Manthai East 4406 Mullativu
Pudukuduirippu 4409
oddusudan 4412 1     3
Maritimepattu 4415
Welioya 4418
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Pachchilaipalli 4503 Kilinochchi
Kandawalai 4506
Karachchi 4509 1    4
Punakari 4512 
Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Koralepattu North 5103
Koralepattu West 
 (oddamawadi) 5106
Koralepattu 
 (Valaichchenai) 5109
Eravurpattu 5112
Eravurpattu town 5115
Manmunei North 5118 Batticaloa
Manmunei West 5121
Kaththankudi 5124 1    5
Manmuneipattu 5127
Manmunei South West 5130
Porativupattu 5133
Manmunei South 5136
Koralepattu South 5139
Koralepattu central 5142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
dehiaththakandiya 5203
Padiyathalawa 5206
Maha oya 5209
uhana 5212
ampara 5215
Nawindaweli 5216
Samanthurei 5218 ampara
Kalmuna-tamil 5224
Saindamarudu 5225 1    6
Karativu 5227
Nindavur 5230
addalachchena 5233
Eragama 5234
akkaraipattu 5236
alayadivembu 5239
damana 5242
thirukkovil 5245
Pothuvil 5248
lahugala 5251
Kalmuna - Muslim 5254
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Padavi Sri pura 5303 t rincomalee
Kuchchaveli 5306
Gomarankadawala 5309 1   7

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1404
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Morawewa 5312
town and Gravets 5315
thambalagamuwa 5318 t rincomalee
Kanthale 5321
Kinniya 5324 1   7
Muthur 5327
Seruvila 5330
Verugal/ 5333
 Echchalampattuwa
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Giribawa 6103
Galgamuwa 6106
Ehetuwewa 6109
ambanpola 6112
Kotawehera 6115
Rasnayakapura 6118
Nikaweratiya 6121
Mahawa 6124
Polpithigama 6127
ibbagamuwa 6130 Kurunegala
Ganewatta 6133
Wariyapola 6136 1      8
Kobeigane 6139
Bingiriya 6142
Bamunakotuwa 6149
Maspotha 6151
Kurunegala 6154
Mallavapitiya 6157
Mawathagama 6160
Rideegama 6163
Weerambugedara 6166
Kuliyapitiya East 6169
Kuliyapitiya West 6172
udubaddawa 6175
Pannala 6178
Narammala 6181
alawwa 6184
Polgahawela 6187
Paduwasnuwara East 6190
Paduwasnuwara West 6193
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Kalpitiya 6203 Puttlam
Wanathavilluwa 6206
Karuwalagaswewa 6209 1    9
Nawagaththegama 6212
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Puttlam 6215
Mundalama 6218 Puttlam
Mahakumbukkadawala 6221
anamaduwa 6224 1    9
Pallama 6227
arachchikattuwa 6230
chilaw 6233
Madampe 6236
Mahawewa 6239
Naththandiya 6242
Wennappuwa 6245
dankotuwa 6248
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Padaviya 7103
Kebithigollewa 7106
Medawachchiya 7109
Mahawilachchiya 7112
Nuwaragampalatha  7115
 central
Rambewa 7118
Kahatagasdigiliya 7121 anuradhapura
Horoupothana 7124
Galenbindunuwewa 7127 2    0
Mihinthale 7130
Nuwaragampalatha  7133
 East
Nachchaduwa 7136
Nochchiyagama 7139
Rajanganaya 7142
thambuttegama 7145
thalawa 7148
thirappane 7151
Kekirawa 7154
Palugaswewa 7157
ipalogama 7160
Galnewa 7163
Palagala 7166
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Higurakgoda 7203 Polonnaruwa
Medirigiriya 7206
lankapura 7209 2    1

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1405
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Welikanda 7210 Polonnaruwa
dimbulagala 7212
thamankaduwa 7215 2   1
Elahera 7218
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Mahiyanganaya 8103
Rideemaliyadda 8106
Meegahakiula 8109
Kandaketiya 8112
Soranathota 8115
Passara 8118 Badulla
lunugala 8119
Badulla 8121 2    2
Hali Ela 8124
uwa Paranagama 8127
Welimada 8130
Bandarawela 8133
Ella 8136
Haputhale 8139
Haldummulla 8142
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Bibila 8203
Madulla 8206
Medagama 8209
Siyambalanduwa 8212
Monaragala 8215 Monaragala
Badalkumbura 8218
Buttala 8221 2    3
Wellawaya 8224
Kataragama 8227
thanamalwila 8230
Sewanagala 8233
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Eheliyagoda 9103 Rathnapura
Kuruwita 9106
Kiriella 9109 2     4
Rathnapura 9112
imbulpe 9115
Balangoda 9118 Rathnapura
opanayake 9121
Pelmadulla 9124 2    4
Elapatha 9127
ayagama 9130
Kalawana 9133
Niwithigala 9136
Kahawatta 9139
Godakawela 9142
Weligepola 9145
Embilipitiya 9148
Kolonna 9151
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
Rambukkana 9203
Mawanella 9206
aranayake 9209
Kegalle 9212 Kegalle
Galigamuwa 9215
Warakapola 9218 2    5
Ruwanwella 9221
Bulathkohupitiya 9224
yatiyanthota 9227
dehiovita 9230
deraniyagala 9233
07–82
––––––––––––––––––
 Divisional Secretary's  Number of the Relevant 
 Division Divisional  Number and
  Secretary's Division District
PubLIC  SERVICE  COmmISSION
ministry of Education
liMitEd coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt  to GRadE iii of tHE SRi laNKa 
tEacHER EducatoRS' SERVicE-2015(2016)
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the officers who have 
fulfilled the following qualifications to fill 781 vacancies 
in Grade iii of the Sri lanka teacher Educators' Service 
in the National colleges of Education, teachers' training 
colleges and teachers' centres which are under the 

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1406
purview of the Ministry of Education through a limited 
competitive Examination as per the order issued by 
the Public Service commission. applications prepared 
according to the specimen application form indicated 
at the end of this notification should be sent through 
registered post to reach,  
“the commissioner General of 
Examinations, organizations and foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, Sri lanka, Post 
Box 1503, colombo
” on or before the date mentioned 
below. the term, “limited competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to Grade iii of the Sri lanka teacher 
Educators' Service - 2015(2016) ” should be clearly 
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope. 
further, the title of the Examination in the Sinhala 
applications should be mentioned in English, in addition to 
the Sinhala language and in tamil applications in English, 
in addition to the Tamil language. The officers who are 
applying for these Examination are not entitled to apply 
for the open competitive Examination.
the closing date of applications - 29.07.2016
Note.-the complaints in relation to application or 
a letter connected to the application which are 
lost or delayed in the post are not entertained. 
the candidates themselves should endure 
any damages or losses that may happen due to 
delaying the applications until the closing date of 
applications.
01. Scheme of Recruitment :
 (a) the recruitment will be made on the results of a 
written examination and a structured interview 
with a practical test. candidates similar to twice 
the number of vacancies will be called for the 
structured interview among the candidates 
who have scored marks higher than 40% and 
who have scored 40% marks, the minimum 
for passing each and every subject of the 
written Examination. the marks scored by the 
candidates in the written Examination will not 
be provided to the Boards of Examiners of the 
structured interview and practical examination. 
the marking schemes of the structured and the 
practical interview have been mentioned in No. 
09 of this notification. The structured interview 
will be conducted by a Board of interviewers 
appointed by the Public Service commission. 
a number of candidates similar to the number 
of vacancies will be recruited from among the 
candidates who have obtained the minimum 
pass marks from the written test and the 
practical competency of delivering lectures in 
the structured interview, according to the merit 
order of marks obtained by candidates based 
on the total marks. in case there are more than 
one candidate having scored similar marks, the 
Public Service commission reserves the right of 
taking decision in that regard. the effective date 
of appointment and the number appointed will be 
determined by the Public Service commission. 
the Public Service commission reserves the 
authority of filling a certain number of vacancies 
of filling all the vacancies. Recruitments will be 
made in the same language medium of sitting 
the written Examination. Every candidate 
should sit and pass the written examination in 
the language medium of the subject applied for 
and should appear for the practical examination 
in the same language medium.
 (b) The number of vacancies that will be filled 
through the limited competitive Examination 
has been mentioned below. the vacancies that 
exist in the National colleges of Education, 
teachers' t raining colleges and t eachers' 
Centres will be filled based on the merit order 
of marks of the  candidates that are recruited. 
a candidate is allowed to apply for 03 subjects 
for which the number of vacancies has been 
mentioned below, in one medium of language. 
If one candidate is qualified for several subjects, 
the subject for which the candidate is recruited 
will be decided  based on the order of the 
subjects applied by him.
 Subject Medium No. of
   vacancies
  Sinhala 113
Professional Subject  t amil 74
  English 16
Sinhala language (Mother tongue) Sinhala 81
Sinhala language (Second language) Sinhala 10
tamil language (Mother tongue)  t amil 79
tamil language (Second language) t amil 10
English  English 98
Health and Physical Education  Sinhala 20
  t amil 15
  English 5
dancing  Sinhala 8
  t amil 3
dancing (Barath)  t amil 2
Music  Sinhala 7
  t amil 3
Music (Karnatic)  t amil 3
Western Music  English 2
arts  Sinhala 14
  t amil 7
  English 2
drama and Performing arts  Sinhala 8
  t amil 5
  English 1

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1407
information and  English 16
 communication technology
Primary Education - Mother  Sinhala 8
 t ongue  t amil 4
Primary Education - aesthetic  Sinhala 3
 Education  t amil 3
Primary Education - Physical  Sinhala 5
 Education   t amil 3
Primary Education - Special  Sinhala 2
 Education  t amil 3
Primary Education - creative  Sinhala 6
 activities   t amil 2
Primary Education - English  English 7
Primary Education - Primary  Sinhala 3
 Science  t amil 2
Primary Education - Primary  Sinhala 10
 Mathematics  t amil 3
Buddhism  Sinhala 10
catholism/christianity  Sinhala 3
  t amil 3
Hinduism  t amil 3
islam  t amil 2
Mathematics  Sinhala 8
  t amil 7
  English 5
Biology  Sinhala 3
  t amil 3
  English 2
chemistry  Sinhala 5
  t amil 3
  English 3
Physics  Sinhala 5
  t amil 3
  English 3
Mechanical technology  Sinhala 1
  t amil 1
construction technology  Sinhala 2
  t amil 1
Electric and Electronic technology Sinhala 1
  t amil 1
art and crafts (Pottery and  Sinhala 1
 Handicraft)   t amil 1
textiles technology  t amil 1
Education of citizenry  Sinhala 5
  t amil 2
  English 1
History  Sinhala 1
Geography  Sinhala 2
  t amil 2
library and information Studies  Sinhala 1
  t amil 1
  English 2
agricultural Science  Sinhala 3
  t amil 1
Special Education  Sinhala 2
  t amil 2
Home Economics  Sinhala 2
  t amil 4
Entrepreneurial Studies  Sinhala 3
02. Conditions of employing in the Service :
 (i) the candidates selected will be appointed to 
the Grade iii of the Service subjected to the 
conditions imposed in the Sri lanka teacher 
Educators' Service Minute which had been 
published in the Gazette (Extra-ordinary) 
No. 1925/37 dated 28.07.2015 of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka 
and as per the revisions made thereafter to 
the Service Minute and the revisions that will 
be made to the Service Minute hereinafter 
and the general conditions which govern the 
appointments made to the Public service.
 (ii) The officers who are appointed to this post 
will be subject to an acting period of one 
year.
 (iii) The First efficiency bar examination should 
be passed prior to exceeding 03 years 
subsequent to  being appointed to the Grade 
iii of the teacher Educators' Service.
 (iv) in terms of the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and the circulars incidental 
there to,  the relevant proficiency in the 
other official Language should be obtained 
within a period of five (05) years from the 
date of appointment. Officers recruited to 
the service in a language medium  other 
than an official language should obtain the 
proficiency in one of the  official languages  
within the period of three (03) tears and an 
officer recruited to the service should obtain 
 Subject Medium No. of
   vacancies
 Subject Medium No. of
   vacancies

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1408
the  proficiency in the English Language 
which is the link language within the period 
of three (03) years from the date of recruited 
to the service. If an officer has got through 
the English language within a  credit pass 
or a higher pass at the G.c.E. (ordinary 
Level) Examination, such officers are 
exempted from the  requirement of passing 
the Link Language Test. The other officers 
should pass the Examination indicated in the 
Schedule "Viii" of the Service Minute. an 
officer recruited to the Service in the English 
medium is exempted from this requirement.
 (v) the Procedural laws of the Public Service 
commission, circulars issued on the Public 
Service from time to time and conditions 
of the Sri lanka teacher Educators' Service 
Minute and the revision made to the Service 
Minute are applicable to this post.
 (vi) the appointees should reside within the 
limit of National college of Education 
when residential  facilities are provided. it is 
permitted to reside within a limited distance 
when residential facilities  are not provided. 
However, the appointees should reside in 
houses when housing facilities are provided 
within the limit of the National college of 
Education.
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly Salary Scale of Rs.22,935-
10x645-8x790-17x1,050-Rs.53,555/-S:-1-2006 as per the  
Public administration circular No. 6/2006 is entitled to the 
Post.
04. Educational Qualifications and Experience:
 (i) Educational Qualifications :
  a  degree in the relevant discipline and a Post 
Graduate diploma in Education from an  
university recognized by the university Grants 
commission or from an institute recognized by 
the university Grants commission as being a 
degree awarding institute. 
  oR
  Bachelor of Education degree in the relevant 
discipline.
 Note.–The Qualifications mentioned below in 
relation to the following subjects are accepted 
as the  minimum qualifications. 
(a) Special Education :
 (i) Possession of a postgraduate degree 
with the subject Special Education 
from a recognized  university and 
five years' experience in teaching the 
relevant subject area full-time ;or
 (ii) Possession of a degree from a recognized 
university with a postgraduate diploma 
in the relevant discipline or National 
diploma in teaching special Education, 
or Trained Teacher's Certificate in  
Special Education, and six years' 
experience in teaching the relevant 
subject area full-time; or
 (iii) Possession of a degree from a 
recognized university in the relevant 
discipline and seven years' teaching 
experience; or
 (iv) National diploma in teaching special 
Education or trained teacher's 
Certificate in the relevant subject 
area with not less than seven years' 
teaching experience.
(B) Information Technology : 
 (i) Possession of a degree in information 
technology/information and communication  
technology/computer Science with first 
class or Second class, from a recognized 
university; or 
 (ii) Possession of a degree in information 
technology/ information and communication 
technology/computer Science from a 
recognized  university, and a postgraduate 
degree in the relevant discipline; or
 (iii) Possession of a degree in information technology/
information and communication technology/
computer Science from a recognized 
university or Possession of a degree with  
information and communication technology 
as a major subject from a recognized 
university and a postgraduate diploma in 
information and communication technology 
and completion of  not less than five years' 
continuous service as a teacher of information 
and communication technology; or
 (iv) Possession of a degree in information 
technology/ information and communication  
technology/computer Science from a 
recognized  university or Possession of 
a degree  with information technology/ 
information and communication 
technology/computer Science as 

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1409
a  major subject from a recognized 
university and National diploma in 
teaching information and communication 
technology and completion of not less 
than five years' continuous service as a 
teacher of information and communication 
technology; or
 (v) Possession of a degree in any discipline  from 
a recognized university and a postgraduate 
diploma  in information and 
communication technology and completion 
of not  less than six years' continuous 
service as a teacher of information and 
communication technology; or
 (vi) Possession of a degree in information 
technology/ information and 
communication technology/ computer 
Science from a recognized university 
and completion  of  not less than seven 
years' continuous  service as a teacher 
of information and communication 
technology.
(c) Western Music
 (i) Possession of a degree in the relevant 
discipline from a recognized university 
and  not less than  seven years' teaching 
experience; or
 (ii) Possession of a degree from a recognized 
university and the National diploma in 
Teaching or  Trained Teacher's Certificate 
in the relevant subject area and not less 
than seven years' teaching  experience; 
or
 (iii) National diploma in t eaching Western 
Music or  trained Teacher's Certificate 
in Western Music and not less than 
seven years' post qualification teaching 
experience; or
 (iv) Possession of a diploma in the relevant 
discipline conducted by department of 
Examination and  not less than ten years' 
teaching experience; or
 (v) Possession of a pass grade in Practical and 
written tests if Western Music Grade viii  
Examination, conducted by one of the 
following institutions, and not less than 
seven years; teaching experience.
 (a) department of Examinations, Sri 
lanka
 (b) t rinity college of Music, london
 (c) Royal School of Music, london
 (d) london college of Music
 (e) institute of Western Music and Speech, 
colombo
(d) English
 (i) Possession of a degree from a recognized 
university and postgraduate diploma in 
teaching  English as a Second language 
along with six years' teaching experience; 
or 
 (ii) Possession of National diploma in 
teaching English or English trained 
Teacher's Certificate with not less than 
seven years' post qualification teaching 
experience.
(E) Physical Education
 (i) Possession of a degree in Physical 
Education from a recognized university 
and not less than seven  years' teaching 
experience; or 
 (ii) Possession of diploma in Physical 
Education and Sports from a recognized 
university or the Ministry of sports and the 
National diploma in teaching Physical 
Education and Sports or trained teacher's 
Certificate in Physical Education and 
Sports, and not less than six years' post 
qualification teaching experience; or
 (iii) Possession of a degree in any discipline 
from a recognized university and a 
postgraduate degree in Physical Education 
along with six years' teaching experience 
in Physical Education ;or
 (iv) Possession of a degree in any discipline 
from a recognized university and the 
National diploma in teaching Physical 
Education or Trained Teacher's Certificate 
in Physical Education with not  less than 
six years' post qualification teaching 
experience.
(f) technology Subjects
 (i) construction technology
 (ii) Mechanical technology

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1410
 (iii) arts and crafts
 (iv) Electric and Electronic technology
 (v) Home Economics
 (i)  Possession of a degree in the relevant discipline 
from a recognized university and not less than 
seven years' teaching experience; or
 (ii) Possession of the National diploma in  
teaching of the relevant subject or trained 
Teacher's of  Certificate, along with not less 
than seven years' teaching experience; or
 (iii) Possession of a degree from a recognized 
university and the National diploma in 
teaching of the relevant subject or trained 
Teacher's of Certificate, along with not less 
than six years' teaching  experience; or
 (iv) Possession of the National diploma in  
teaching of the relevant subject or trained 
Teacher's Certificate, along with not less than 
six years' teaching experience and any one of 
the following certificates:
 (a) Higher National diploma in technology or 
Higher National Certificate in Technology
 (b) National diploma in technology or 
National Certificate in Technology
 (c) Certificate of Diploma issued by a technical 
college or a Polytechnic institute, for a  
course which is not less than one year's; 
duration
 (d) City and Guilds certificate I, II or III
 (e) A technology certificate at NVQ - V level
 (ii) experience:
  Should have been confirmed in the post in 
Sri lanka Principals' Service or Sri lanka 
teachers' Service or Sri lanka Education 
administrative Service belonging to the Public 
Service or Provincial Public Service having 
fulfilled the qualifications under 04.I above 
obtained on or  before the date mentioned in 
the notice calling for applications and should 
have completed an active and satisfactory 
service not less than five (05) years.
05. Age Limit.– age should not be more than 45 years 
by the closing date of applications.
06. Physical qualifications.– Every candidate should be 
Physicaly and mentally sound enough to serve in any parts 
of the island and performs duties in the respective post.
07. Other qualifications :
 (i) Should be excellent moral character.
 (ii) Should be an officer confirmed in the Post of 
Sri lanka Education administrative Service or 
Sri lanka Principals Service or the Sri lanka 
teachers' Service belonging to Public Service or 
Provincial Public Service.
 (iii) Should be an officer who has earned all the 
salary increments during the period of service of 
five  years immediately preceding the Sri 
lanka Education administration Service or Sri 
lanka Principals Service or Sri lanka teachers' 
Service belonging to the Public Service or 
Provincial  Public Service without being subject 
to any disciplinary punishment during such 
period of service.
 (iv) No person  is permitted to sit for the limited 
competitive Examination for more than three 
(03) sittings.
 (v) Qualifying date - the fact as to whether the 
candidate has fulfilled required qualifications 
to sit the competitive Examination for 
appointment to the Service is accepted only if 
such candidates  has in every respect met with 
necessary qualifications set out in provisions 
from 4(1) to 7 as  at the closing date of calling 
for applications.
08. Method of Applying the Post.- applications are 
entertained for the 37 subjects mentioned below for 
recruitment to the Service. one candidate can apply for 
3 subjects and the subjects applied for and the relevant 
subject  numbers have to be mentioned in the specified 
place of the application.
  
Subject Subject 
   Number
 Professional Subject 01
 Sinhala language (Mother tongue) 02
 Sinhala language (Second language) 03
 t amil language (Mother tongue) 04
 t amil language (Second language) 05
 English 06
 Health and Physical Education 07
 dancing 08
 dancing (Barath) 09
 Music 10
 Music (Karnatic) 11
 Western Music 12
 art 13
 drama and Performing arts 14
 information and communication technology 15
 Primary Education - Mother tongue 161

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1411
 Primary Education - aesthetic Education 162
 Primary Education - Physical Education 163
 Primary Education - Special Education 164
 Primary Education - creative activities 165
 Primary Education - English 166
 Primary Education - Primary Science 167
 Primary Education - Primary Mathematics 168
 Buddhism 17
 catholism/christianity 18
 Hinduism 19
 islam 20
 Mathematics 21
 Biology 22
 chemistry 23
 Physics 24
 Mechanical technology 25
 construction technology 26
 Electric and Electronic technology 27
 arts and craft (Pottery and Handicrafts) 28
 t extiles technology 29
 Education of citizenry 30
 History 31
 Geography 32
 library and information Studies 33
 agricultural Science 34
 Special Education 35
 Home Economics 36
 Entrepreneurial Studies 37
N.B.- the subject stream applying for should have 
been followed as one of the major subjects of the 
degree course and the subject applied for should 
be applicable to one third (1/3) of the number of 
total subject units (aggregate units) followed for 
the  degree.
09. Recruitment :
 9.1 Written Examination.
 9.1.1 the examination will be held by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
 9.1.2 the Syllabus: this Examination will 
be held under three subjects. only the 
candidates who score a minimum of 
40% marks and higher marks for each 
question paper will be qualified to 
appear for the structured and practical 
interview.
 (i) Subject Number 01: General Knowledge 
and aptitude - 100 marks - two hours.
 
  it is hereby expected to gauge                     
the candidates' power of reasoning 
and understanding by way assessing 
awareness and knowledge of the 
cultural, educational, scientific, political 
and economic aspects and other related 
matters of interest in the national, 
regional and global environment as 
well as in our own society and also to 
test their judgment and responsiveness 
concerning problems presented in a 
verbalized, statistical and illustrational 
context. all the  questions should be 
answered.
 (ii) Subject Number 02: comprehension 
and case study - 100 Marks - two 
hours.
  it is hereby expected to assess the 
candidates' logical and imaginative 
power associated with the  presentation, 
filing and expression of information and 
views on a given topic or theme and to 
gauge  the ability of the candidates' 
understanding of a fairly complex 
paragraph or memorandum and to 
explain its core substance explicitly and 
correctly in their own words concisely. 
and in addition,  the methodology used 
by the candidates to address a particular 
issue in a given situation is also tested. 
all the questions should be answered.
 (iii) Subject Number 03: Elements in 
Education - 100 Marks - one hour.
 
  it is hereby expected to assess the 
candidates' understanding of the areas 
in relation to Philosophy  of Education, 
Sociology of Education, Role of the 
teacher, Elements of Education and 
current issues, Educational Planning 
and Management, Educational 
Evaluation, Strategies of learning  a n d 
teaching, Educational technology and 
Educational Research. all the questions 
should be answered.
 9.2 Structured and Practical interview:
  a  Structured and practical Examination will be 
held for the candidates who score 40% marks 
for each subject at the Written Examination 
as indicated below by a Board of interviewers 
appointed by the Public Service commission 
under the following criteria. (the Marking 
  Subject Subject 
   Number

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1412
Scheme has been included in the Schedule.) in 
case the number of qualified candidates is not 
equal to the aforesaid number of vacancies, only 
the qualified number of candidates will be called 
for the Structured interview.
Part 1: Structured interview
 Criteria of awarding Maximum Passable 
 Marks Marks Marks
 Part 1
 1. additional Educational 20
  qualifications
 2. English language 15 Not
  competency  applicable
 3. ict Skill 15
Note.- if the educational and professional 
qualifications mentioned in this notification 
are fulfilled through certificates obtained by a 
foreign university, it is compulsory to submit 
at the Interview the Certificate of Confirmation 
to the effect that the university is a recognized 
institution of the university Grants commission.
Part ii : Practical test :
 Main heads for which Maximum Minimum 
 marks are offered Marks Marks
   considered
   for 
   selection
 1. Preparation of lecture Notes 25
 2. Presentation  25
  2.1 approach  04
  2.2 concise presentation of 
    the design of the lecture 04 20
  2.3 Style of the Presentation 08
  2.4 Subject content 05
  2.5 time Management 04
  
Candidates who are proved to have fulfilled all the 
qualifications required for recruitment at the structured 
interview, are qualified to be called for the Practical 
test. though a particular number of candidates out of 
the candidates called for the Structured interviews as 
mentioned above are not qualified to  call for the practical 
examination, other candidates instead of those who are not 
qualified, will not be called for the Structured interview 
again.
10. Conditions of the examination :
 (i) the Examination will be conducted in 
Sinhala, tamil and English language medium. 
candidates should sit the Examination in 
the language medium of the subject which 
they have applied for. Every question paper 
should be answered in one language medium. 
candidates are not permitted to change the 
language medium indicated in their in their 
applications.
 (ii) Examination fee is Rs.1000.00. the receipt 
obtained in favour of the candidate himself 
by paying the examination fee to any post 
office situated in the island to be credited 
to the Revenue Head, 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations should 
be firmly affixed using one edge of it on the 
specified place of the application, It will be 
useful to keep a photocopy of  the receipt with 
the candidate.
 (iii) the amount paid for the Examination will not 
be reimbursed under any circumstances.
 (iv) this Examination will be held in colombo. the 
date of the examination will be notified later.
 (v) uncompleted applications will be rejected 
without notice.
Note.- candidates are not permitted to enter the 
Examination Hall without having the admission. 
only the admissions in which his/her signature 
has been attested should be submitted to the 
Supervisor  of the Examinations on the date of 
commencement of the Examination.
 
issuance of an admission to a candidate shall not 
be deemed as a fulfilment of qualification for 
presenting himself at the Examination.
 (vi) the application should be prepared using both 
side of a4 papers and Heads from 01 to 04 
should appear in the first page while Heads 
05 upwards should appear in the second, 
third and fourth pages. the applicant should 
include the relevant information in his/her own 
handwriting. applications which are not in 
conformity with the specimen application form 
and uncompleted  applications will be rejected 
without notice. it will be useful to keep a copy 
of the relevant application with the candidate. 
further, the candidate should inquire whether 
the completed application is in conformity 
with the specimen application mentioned in 
the notification of examination and it is further 
informed that if they are not in conformity with 
each other, such application will be rejected.
 (vii) admission will be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, besed on the 

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1413
presumption that only the persons having 
qualifications indicated in the Gazette 
Notification have applied, to candidates who 
are in the age limit mentioned in the notification 
and have submitted applications which are 
accurately perfected with language medium of 
sitting the  examination, subject applying for 
and the subject number, signature of candidate 
with the  attestation of the signature and the 
certificate of the Head of the Department only 
if applicable, along with the relevant receipt 
issued subsequent to paying the prescribed 
Examination fee on or before the date of closing 
the applications.
  A newspaper notification will be published by 
the department of Examinations, Sri lanka 
immediately after admissions are issued. if any 
candidate does not receive the admission at least  
05 days prior to the date of commencing the 
Examination as mentioned in the notification, 
he/she should inquire from the organizations 
and foreign Examinations Branch of the  
department of Examinations, Sri lanka as 
indicated in the notification. In inquiring so, 
the  title of the Examination applied for, full 
name of the applicant, National identity card 
number and address should be accurately 
mentioned. if the applicant resides outside 
Colombo, it will be much beneficial to inquire 
for the admission referring a fax number along 
with such particulars of the applicant through 
which he can immediately obtain a copy of the 
admission. in inquiring so, it will be helpful for 
the applicant to keep a copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt obtained by paying the 
Examination fees and the receipt issued in the 
process of posting the application in order to 
substantiate any information inquired by the 
department of Examinations.
 (viii) the commissioner General of Examinations 
reserves the authority of postponing or 
cancelling the Examination on the approval of 
the Public Service commission.
 (ix) candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in relation to the conduct of 
the Examination. in case such rules and 
regulations are violated by a candidate, he/she 
has to undergo a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations. 
 (x) identity of candidate - Every candidate should 
prove his/her identity at the Examination 
Hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of 
Examinations. only one of the following 
documents will be  accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a Valid passport
Note.- (a) any document or a copy should not be 
annexed to the application.
 (b) applications of candidates, who are 
unable to submit documents whenever 
such documents are requested, are not 
entertained.
 
 (xi) the candidature of any candidate will 
be cancelled in any occasion prior to the 
examination or during the Examination or after 
the Examination if it is proved that the candidate 
is not qualified. In case any candidate proved to 
have submitted false information on purpose 
or has suppressed certain important facts on 
purpose, he/she is subjected to be dismissed 
from the service.
 (xii) Applications should be sent by the officers 
employed in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service through their Head of the 
department/institution. candidate who sits 
the Examination from an institution should 
make his signature attested by the Head of the 
institution where he serves.
 (xiii) Releasing of Results.– the Register of 
candidates who have qualified in the Written 
Examination will be issued to the Secretary, 
Public Service commission as per the chapter 
9.1.2. of the Gazette  Notification. Results will 
be personally informed to all the candidates sat 
the examination or will be uploaded in the web 
site of www.exam.results.gov.lk
 (xiv) the decision of the Public Service commission 
in relation to filling of vacancies will be final 
and conclusive.
11. in case of a discrepancy exits in the text of this 
Gazette notification published in the Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the Sinhala text will prevail.
 
By order of the Public Service commission,
 W. M. 
bandusena,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
on 10
th June, 2016.

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1414
schedule
marking scheme of the structured interview for limited recruitments to grade iii
 of the sri lanka teacher educators' service
(for the other subjects except Second language Sinhala and Second language tamil)
Part I - maximum of 50 marks
Note:- Marks will be awarded for certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications indicated in Para 04 of the 
Gazette Notification subjected to the maximum limit of marks.
  Maximum of 20 Marks
01. Educational Qualifications 
  1.1 Post Graduate degree or above   12
   (on Education or on the relevant subject)
  1.2 Post Graduate diploma  08
02. Proficiency in English Language Maximum of 15 Marks 
  2.1 candidates should have followed English as a Subject of the degree  15
  2.2 candidates should have followed the degree in English Medium  12
  2.3 candidates should have passed English as a Subject of the G.c.E.  10
   (a/level) Examination
  2.4 candidates should have followed the G.c.E. (a/level) Examination  08
   in English Medium
  2.5 candidates should have followed a diploma course of a university  06
   or a recognized institution (for one year or more than that)
  2.6 Certificate course in a recognized University  04
  2.7 distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for the Subject of English  02
   at the G.c.E. (o/level) Examination
03. Knowledge in information technology Maximum of 15 Marks 
  3.1 Post Graduate degree in information and communication  15
   t echnology
  3.2 degree in information and communication technology  12
  3.3 candidates should have followed information and communication  10
   t echnology as a Subject of the degree
  3.4 diploma course in information and communication technology  08
   (1 year or more than that)
  3.5 Certificate Course in Information and Communication Technology  06
   (More than 06 Months)
  3.6 Certificate Course on Information and Communication Technology  04
   (up to 06 Months)
           Total marks 50
Part II - Practical Examination - maximum of 50 marks
01. Preparation of a lecture note for conducting a lecture under a topic given  25
 by the Board of Examiners in relation to the subject
02. conduct a lecture before the Board of Examiners in relation to the matters  25
 mentioned in the lecture note
              Total marks 50

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1415
schedule
marking scheme for the structured interview for limited recruitments to grade iii
 of the sri lanka teacher educators' service
(for the subjects of Second language Sinhala and Second language tamil)
Part I - maximum of 50 marks
Note:- Marks will be awarded for certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications indicated in Para 04 of the 
Gazette Notification subjected to the limit of maximum marks.
  Maximum of 20 Marks
01. Educational Qualifications 10
  1.1 Post Graduate degree or above
   (on Education or on the relevant subject)
  1.2 Post Graduate diploma 06
  1.3 candidates should have passed the level ii of Sinhala/t amil or 04
   should have passed Second language Sinhala/tamil Subject with 
   a credit Pass at the G.c.E. (o/level) Examination along with a 
   Pass for Oral Test conducted by the Department of Official Languages
   (under this, marks will be awarded for the Subject of Second language
   Sinhala for Tamil Language Certificates and the Subject of Second
   Language Tamil for Sinhala Language Certificates.)
02. Proficiency in English Language Maximum of 15 Marks
  2.1 candidates should have followed English as a Subject of the degree 15
  2.2 candidates should have followed the degree in English Medium 12
  2.3 candidates should have passed English as a Subject of the G.c.E. 10
   (a/level) Examination
  2.4 candidates should have followed the G.c.E. (a/level) Examination 08
   in English Medium
  2.5 candidates should have followed a diploma course of a university 06
   or a recognized institution (for one year or more than that)
  2.6 Certificate course in a recognized University 04
  2.7 distinction/Very Good Pass/credit Pass for the Subject of English 02
   at the G.c.E. (o/level) Examination
03. Knowledge in information technology Maximum of 15 Marks 
  3.1 Post Graduate degree in information and communication technology 15
  3.2 degree in information and communication technology 12
  3.3 candidates should have followed information and communication 10
   t echnology as a Subject of the degree
  3.4 diploma course in information and communication technology 08
   (1 year or more than that)
  3.5 Certificate Course on Information and Communication Technology 06
   (More than 06 Months)
  3.6 Certificate Course on Information and Communication Technology 04
   (up to 06 Months)
                  Total marks 50
Part II - Practical Examination - maximum of 50 marks
01. Preparation of a lecture note for conducting a lecture under a topic given 25
 by the Board of Examiners in relation to the subject.
02. conduct of a lecture before the Board of Examiners in relation to the matters 25
 mentioned in the lecture note
                  Total marks 50

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1416
SPeCIMeN APPLICATION FORM
 
(For Office Use Only)
Limited Competitive examination for Recruitment to 
Grade III of the Sri Lanka Teacher educators' Service - 
2015(2016)
(Submit to the Zonal director of Education in two copies)
the Medium of sitting the Examination
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4 
(indicate the relevant number inside the cage) 
Mention the Subject applying for and the code Number 
in the table given below. (in relation to the Gazette 
Notification)
Ref. Number Subject Subject Number
01. 1.1 Name in full (in English Block capitals) :–––––.
  (eg.: HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with the last name first and the initials at 
the end (in English block capitals) :–––––––––. 
(eg.: GuNaWaRdHaNa, H,M,S,K, )
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––. 
02. 2.1 Permanent address (in English Block capitals) 
:–––––––––.
 2.2 Personal telephone Number (if available) :              
–––––––––.
 2.3 Official Address (In English Block Capitals) : 
–––––––––.
 2.4 Official Telephone Number (If Available) :         
–––––––––.
 2.5 Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––.
 2.6 address to which the admission should be sent (in 
English Block capitals) :–––––––––.
03. Sex:-
  Male - 0
  female - 1
  (indicate the relevant Number inside the cage)
04 . National identity card No. :
05. 5.1 Ethnicity :
 
  (indicate the relevant Number inside the cage)
  Sinhala - 1
  t amil - 2
  indian t amil - 3
  Muslim - 4
  other - 5
 5.2 civil Status : 
        
(indicate the relevant Number inside the cage) 
  unmarried - 1
  Married - 2
 5.3 date of Birth :
  date :  Month : y ear :
 5.4 age as at 29.07.2016 :
  y ears :     Months : days :
06.  Educational Qualifications:
 (a) (i) date of obtaining degree or the other 
qualification :––––––––––.   
(Effective date)
  (ii) Degree/Other qualifications (Title) :––––––.
  (iii) Major subjects studied :––––––––––.
  (iv) university/institute  :––––––––––.
  (v) External/internal :––––––––––.
 (b) (i) date of passing Post Graduate diploma in 
Education :––––––––––.
  (ii) Subjects followed :––––––––––.
  (iii) university/institute :––––––––––.
 (c)  if applied un der the Note 4 (i),
  (i) Subject number indicated under the Note 
:––––––––––.
  (ii) Number relevant to the qualification under 
the Note :––––––––––.
07. (i) date of first appointment to the Public Service as 
a teacher :––––––––––.
 (ii) Subject for which the teaching appointment has 
been granted :––––––––––.
 (iii) Zone of Education in which the candidate is 
serving currently :––––––––––.
 (iv) Period of service as at 29.07.2016 :
  y ears :––––––. Months :–––––––. days :––––––.
08. (i) y ear of obtaining teachers' training :––––––––––.
 (ii) Name of the National college of Education/
teachers' training college :––––––––––.
 (iii) Effective Date of the Training Certificate :–––––.

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1417
 (iv) Subject field in which the training has been 
obtained :––––––––––.
 (v) date of obtaining the teaching appointment for 
the subject related to the training :––––––––––.
 (vi) Period of service from the date of appointment up 
to 29.07.2016 :
  .............years ............. Months ............. date 
09 Have you been confirmed in the present post you are 
holding? :–––––––––.
10. indicate the language of passing the Examination 
through which you have obtained qualifications to  
enter the public Service :–––––––––.
11. Examination fees :
Firmly affix the receipt obtained after paying the 
Examination fees
(Please keep a photo copy of the receipt with you)
12.0  i hereby declare that the information furnished by 
me are true according to my knowledge and belief 
and the receipt No….dated……obtained after paying 
examination fees has been affixed to the application. 
further, i agree to abide by rules and regulations of the 
Examination and the rules and  regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations and to 
accept any decision taken on the cancellation of my 
candidature before or during the Examination, if it is 
disclosed that I  am not qualified in terms of the rules 
of the Examination. i am aware that i am subject to 
be  dismissed from the service if it is revealed that i 
am not qualified even after being selected to the Post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
Zonal Director of education,
i do certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss………………….. 
who submits this application is a teacher serving in my 
school.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Principal. 
 (Place the Official Frank)
date :––––––––––.
 Commissioner General of examinations,
 i do hereby certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss ………… 
who submits this application is a teacher serving in my 
zone,……………….and particulars mentioned in the paras 
No. 01 to 10 are accurate according to his/her personal file 
available at the Office and the due Examination Fee has 
been paid by him/her and the relevant receipt has been 
affixed on the  specified place of the application.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Zonal director of Education/Provincial 
 director of Education.
 (Place the Official Frank)
date :––––––––––.
07-210/2
–––––––––––––––––––
PubLIC  SERVICE  COmmISSION
ministry of Education
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitiNG to GRadE iii of tHE SRi laNKa  
tEacHER EducatoRS' SERVicE – 2015 (2016)
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the officers who have 
fulfilled the following qualifications to fill 409 vacancies 
in Grade iii of the Sri lanka teacher Educator's Service 
in the National colleges of Education, teacher's training 
colleges and teacher's centres which are under the purview 
of the Ministry of Education through an open competitive 
Examination as per the oreder issued by the Public 
Service commission.applications prepared according 
to the specimen application form indicated at the end of 
this notification should be sent through registered post 
to reach , 
“the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organizations and foreign Examination Branch, department 
of Examinations, Sri lanka, Post Box 1503, colombo 
on or before the date mentioned below.the term, 
“open  
competitve Examination for Recruitment to Grade iii of  
the Sri lanka teacher Educators' Service – 2015  (2016)
” 
shold be clearly mentioned on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope. further, the title of the Examination in the 
sinhala applications should be mentioned in English, in 
addition to the sinhala language and in tamil applications 
in English, in addition to the Tamil Language.The Officers 
who are applying for the Examinaton are not entitled to 
apply for the limited competitive Examination.
the closing date of applications – 29.07.2016
Note.- the complaints in reletion to application or a 
letter connected to the application which are lost or delayed  
in the post are not entertained.t he candidates themselves 
should endure any damages or losses that may happen 
due to delaying the applications until the closing date of 
applications.

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1418
 Subject Medium No. of
   vacancies
 Professional Subject Sinhala 61
  tamil 39
  English 8
 Sinhala language (Mother tongue) Sinhala 44
 Sinhala language (Second Sinhala 6
  language)
 t amil  language (Mother tongue) t amil 43
 t amil  language (Second t amil 6
  language)
 English English 53
 Health & Physical Education Sinhala 11
  tamil 8
  English 3
 dancing Sinhala 5
  tamil 1
 dancing (Barath) tamil 1
 Music Sinhala 4
  tamil 2
 Music  (Karnaic) tamil 2
 Western Music English 1
 arts Sinhala 8
  tamil 3
 drama & Performing art Sinhala 5
  tamil 2
 information & communication English 9
  t echnology
 Primary Education   -   Mother Sinhala 4
  t ongue tamil 2
 Primary Education   -   aesthetic Sinhala 2
  Education tamil 2
 Primary Education   -   Physical Sinhala 3
  Education tamil 2
 Primary Education   -   Special   tamil 2
  Education
 Primary Education   -   creative Sinhala 3
  activities
 Primary Education   -   English English 3
 Primary Education   -   Primary Sinhala 1
  Science tamil 1
 Primary Education   -   Primary Sinhala 5
  Mathematics tamil 2
 Buddhism Sinhala 6
 catholics / christianity Sinhala 2
  tamil 2
 Hinduism tamil 2
 islam tamil 1
 Mathematics Sinhala 5
  tamil 3
  English 2
01. Scheme of Recruitment :
 (a)  the recruitment will be made on the results of a 
written examination and a structured interview 
with a practical examination. candidates similar 
to twice the number of vacancies will be called 
for the structured interview among the candidates 
who have scored marks higher than 40 % and who 
have scored 40 % marks,the minimum for passing 
each and every subject of the written Examination.
the marks scored by the candidates in the written 
examination will not be provided to the Boards 
of Examiners of the structured interview and 
practical examination. the marking schemes of 
the stuctured and the practical interview have 
been mentioned in No. 09 of this notification.The 
structured interview will be conducted by a Board 
of interviewers appointed by the public Service 
commission. a Number of candidates similar to 
the number of vacancies will be recruited from 
among the candidates who have obtained the 
minimum pass marks from the written test and the 
practical competency of delivering lectures in the 
structured interview, according to the merit order 
of marks obtained by candidates based on the total 
marks.in case there are more than one candiate 
having scored similar marks,the Public Service 
commission reserves the right of taking decision 
in that regard. the effective date of apointment 
and the number appointed will be determined 
by the Public Service commission. the Public 
Service commission reserves the authority of 
filling a certain number of vacancies or filling all 
the vacancies.in case a certain candidate called 
for examining his qualifications is found to have 
not fulfilled the specified qualifications, the next 
candidate in the register according to the merit 
order will be called for the interview.Recruitments 
will be made in the same language medium of 
sitting the written Examinat ion. Every candidate 
should sit and pass the written examination in the 
language medium of the subject applied for and 
should appear for practical examination in the 
same language medium.
 (b)  The number of vacancies that will be filled 
through the limited competitive Examination 
has been mentioned below. the vacancies that 
exist in the National colleges of Education, 
teachers' training colleges and teachers'centres 
will be filled based on the merit order of marks 
of the candidates that are recruited.a  candidate 
is allowed to apply for 03 subjects for which the 
number of vacancies has been mentioned below,in 
one medium of language.if  one candidate is 
qualified for several subjects,the subject for which 
the candidate is recruited will be decided based on 
the order of the subjects applied by him.
 

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1419
 Biology Sinhala 2
  tamil 2
  English 1
 chemistry Sinhala 3
  tamil 1
  English 2
 Physics Sinhala 3
  tamil 1
  English 2
 Education of citizenry Sinhala 2
  tamil 1
 library & information Studies English 1
 agricultural Science  Sinhala 2 
 Special Education  Sinhala 1
  tamil 1
 Home Economics Sinhala 1
  tamil 2
 Entrepreneurial Studies Sinhala 1
02. Conditions of employing in the Service :
 (i) the candidates will be appointed to the Grade 
iii of the service subjected to the conditions 
imposed in the Srl lanka teacher Educators' 
Service Minute which had been published in 
the Gazette (extra-Ordinary) No. 1925/37 
dated 28.07.2015 of the democratic socialist 
Republic of Sri lanka and as per the revisions 
made thereafter to the Service Minute and 
the revisions that will be made to the Service 
Minute hereinafter and the general conditions 
which govern the appointments made to the 
Public Service.
 (ii) The Officers who are appointed to this post will 
be subjected to a probationary period of  three 
years.
 (iii) The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be 
passed prior to exceeding 03 years subsequent 
to appointed to the Grade iii of the teacher 
Educators' Service.
 (iV) in terms of the Public administration circular 
No.01/2014 and the circulars incidental thereto, 
the relevant proficiency in the other Official 
language should be obtained within a period 
of five (05) years from the date of appointment.
Officers who have recruited to service in a 
language medium other than an official language 
should obtain the proficiency in one of the 
official languages within the period of three (03) 
years and an officer who has recruited to service 
should obtain the proficiency in the English 
language which is the link language within 
the period of three (03) years from the date of 
recruitment to the service.If an officer has got 
through the English language with a credit pass 
or a higher pass at the G.c.E. (ordinary level) 
Examination, such officers are exempted from 
the requirement of passing the link language 
Test. The other officers should pass the 
Examination indicated in the Schedule "Viii'' 
of the Service Minute.An officer recruited to the 
service from the English Medium is exempted 
from this requirement.
 (V) the Procedural laws of the Public Service 
commission,circulars issued on the Public 
Service from time to time and conditions of the 
Sri lanka teacher Educators' Service Minute 
and the revisions made to the service Minute are 
applicable to this Post.
 (Vi) the appointees should reside within the 
limit of National college of Education when 
residential facilities are provided.it is permitted 
to reside within a limited distance when 
residential facilities are not provided.However, 
the appointees should reside in houses when 
housing facilities are provided within the limit 
of the National college of Education.
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly Salary  Scale of Rs.22,935-
10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 –Rs.53,555 - S:- 1-2006 as per 
the Public administration circular No. 6/2006 is entitled 
to the Post.
04. Educational Qualifications.– the candidates 
should have obtained a degree with a Second class (upper 
Division) in the relevant subject field from a University 
recognized by the university Grants commission or 
an institution recognized by the university Grants 
commission as a degree conferring institution and a Post 
Graduate diploma in Education ; or
the candidates should have obtained a degree in 
Education with a Second  class (upper division) in the 
relevant subject field.
05. Age Limit.– age as at the closing date of application 
should be not less than 22 years and not more than 30 years.
06. Physical Qualifications.– Every candidate should be 
physically and mentally fit enough to serve in any part of 
Sri lanka and to perform the duties of the post.
07. Other Qualifications :
 (i) Should have a good moral character.
 (ii) No person is permitted to sit the open 
competitive Examination for the recruitment 
to the Sri lanka teacher Educators' Service for 
more than three (03) sittings.
 (iii) All the qualifications required for sitting the open 
competitive examination for the requirement to 
the Sri lanka teacher Educators' Service have to 
be fulfilled in every aspect by the closing date of 
calling for applications.
 Subject Media No. of
   vacancies

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1420
08. Method of Applying .– applications are accepted 
for  36 subjects mentioned below for the recruitment to 
the service.one candidate can apply for 3 subjects and the 
subjects applied for and the relevant subject numbers have 
to be mentioned in the specified location of the application.
  Subject Subject 
   Number
 Professional Subject 01
 Sinhala language (Mother tongue) 02
 Sinhala language (Second language) 03
 t amil language (Mother tongue) 04
 t amil language (Second language) 05
 English 06
 Health and Physical Education 07
 dancing 08
 dancing (Barath) 09
 Music 10
 Music (Karnatic) 11
 Western Music 12
 arts 13
 drama and Performing arts 14
 information and communication technology 15
 Primary Education - Mother tongue 161
 Primary Education - aesthetic Education 162
 Primary Education - Physical Education 163
 Primary Education - Special Education 164
 Primary Education - creative Skills 165
 Primary Education - English 166
 Primary Education - Primary Science 167
 Primary Education - Primary Mathematics 168
 Buddhism 17
 catholism/christianity 18
 Hinduism 19
 islam 20
 Mathematics 21
 Biology 22
 chemistry 23
 Physics 24
 Education of citizenry 30
 library and information Studies 33
 agricultural Science 34
 Special Education 35
 Home Economics 36
N.B.- the subject stream applying for should have 
been followed as one of the major subjects of the 
degree course and the subject applied for should 
be applicable to one third (1/3) of the number of 
total subject units (aggregate units) followed for 
the  degree.
09. Recruitment :
 9.1 Written examination :
 9.1.1 the examination will be held by the 
commissioner General of Examination.
 9.1.2 The Syllabus: this Examination will 
be held under three subjects. only the 
candidates who score a minimum of 
40% marks and higher marks for each 
question paper will be qualified for the 
structured and practical interview.
 (i) Subject Number 01 : General 
Knowledge and aptitude -100 Marks 
–two Hours.
  it is expected to measure the 
awareness and understanding of the 
candidate on different organizational 
environments in national, Zonal 
and global level as well as the 
cultural, educational, scientific, 
political, economics factors and 
the other  related factors prevalling 
in our society and the ability of 
understanding and the intelligence 
of candidates through testing the 
conclusions and responses of 
the candidates pertaining to the 
problems presented in a textural, 
numerical and figurative context.
all the questions should be 
answered.
 (ii) Subjects Number 02 : 
  comprehension and case study-100 
Marks –two Hours.
  it is expected to measure the logical 
and thinking ability of the candidate 
in relation to the presentation, 
collection and development of 
ideas and information over a topic / 
theme and to measure the capability 
of the candidate to understand 
a rather complex paragraph, 
document or communique and to 
express its main ideas clearly and 
accurately in a summarized form 
in his / her own words. in addition, 

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1421
the methodologies adopted by the 
candidate for the resolution of 
a certain proposed issue.all the 
questions should be answered.
 (iii) Subjects Number 03. Elements 
in Education – 100 Marks – one 
Hour.
  the understanding of the candidate 
in relation to the fields of philosophy 
of Education, Educational Sociology, 
Role of the teacher, educational policies 
and modern issues, Educational 
palnning and Management, 
Educational Evaluations, Stretegies 
in learning and teaching, Educational 
technology and Educational Research 
are examined through the paper. all the 
questions should be answered.
 9.2 Structured and Practical Interview:
  a  Structured and practical Examination will be 
held for the candidates who score 40% marks for 
each subject at the Witten Examination as indicated 
below by a Board of interviewers appointed by the 
Public Service commission under the following 
criteria. (the Marking Scheme has been included 
in the Schedule.) In case the number of qualified 
candidates is not equal to the aforesaid number of 
vacancies, only the qualified number of candidates 
will be called for the Structured interview.
Part 1: Structured Interview :
 Criteria of Maximum Pass 
 Marking Marks Marks
 Part 1
 1. additional Educational 15
  Qualifications
 2. Experience obtained in the  15
  t eaching Profession
 3. English language 10 Not
  Proficiency  applicable
 4. Skill in information  10
  c ommunication technology
Note.- if the educational and professional 
qualifications mentioned in this notification 
are fulfilled through certificates obtained by a 
foreign university, it is compulsory to submit 
at the Interview the Certificate of Confirmation 
to the effect that the university is a recognized 
institution of the university Grants commission.
Part 1I: Practical examination :
 Main heads for which Maximum Minimum 
 Marks are offered Marks Marks
   considered
   for 
   selection
 1. Preparation of lecture Notes 25
 2. Presentation  25
  2.1 approach  04
  2.2 Brief presentation of the 
    matters indicated in the 04 20
    plan of the lecture
  2.3 Style of the Presentation 08
  2.4 content of the subject 05
  2.5 time Management 04
  
Candidates who are proved to have fulfilled all the 
qualifications required for recruitment at the structured 
interview, are qualified to be called for the Practical 
Examination. though a particular number of candidates 
out of the candidates called for the Structured interviews as 
mentioned above are not qualified to  call for the practical 
examination, other candidates instead of those who are not 
qualified, will not be called for the Structured interview 
again.
10. Conditions of the examination :
 (i) the Examination will be conducted in 
Sinhala, tamil and English language medium. 
candidates should sit the Examination in the 
language medium of the subject which they are 
applying for. Every question paper should be 
answered in one language medium. candidates 
are not permitted to change the language 
medium indicated in their applications.
 (ii) Examination fee is Rs.1000.00. the receipt 
obtained in favour of the candidates himself 
by paying the examination fee to any post 
office situated in the island to be credited 
to the Revenue Head, 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examinations should 
be firmly affixed using one edge of it within 
the specified place of the application, It will be 
beneficial to keep a photocopy of  the receipt 
with the candidate.
 (iii) the amount paid for the Examination will not 
be reimbursed under any circumstances.
 (iv) this Examination will be conducted at colombo. 
the date of conducting the examination will be 
notified later.
 (v) uncompleted applications will be rejected 
without notice.

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1422
Note.- candidates are not permitted to enter the 
Examination Hall without having the admission. 
only the admission in which his/her signature 
has been attested should be submitted to the 
Supervisor  of the Examinations on the date of 
commencement of the Examination. 
issuance of an admission to a candidate shall not 
be deemed as a fulfilment of qualification for 
presenting himself at the Examination. 
 (vi) the application should be prepared using both 
sides of a4 papers and Heads from 01 to 04 
should appear in the first page while Heads 
05 upwards should appear in the second, 
third and fourth pages. the applicant should 
include the relevant information in his/her own 
handwriting. applications which are not in 
conformity with the specimen application form 
and unperfected  applications will be rejected 
without notice. it will be useful to keep a copy 
of the relevant application with the candidate. 
further, the candidate should inquire whether 
the prefected application is in conformity with 
the specimen application mentioned in the 
notification of examination and it is further 
informed that if they are not in conformity with 
each other, such application will be rejected. 
 (vii) admissions will be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations, besed on the 
presumption that only the persons having 
qualifications indicated in the Gazette 
Notification have applied, to candidates who 
are in the age limit mentioned in the notification 
and have submitted applications which are 
accurately perfected with language medium of 
sitting the  Examination, subject applying for 
and the code number, signature of candidate 
with the  attestation of the signature and the 
certificate of the Head of the Department only 
if applicable, along with the relevant receipt 
issued subsequent to paying the prescribed 
Examination fee on or before the date of closing 
the applications. 
  A newspaper notification will be published by 
the department of Examinations, Sri lanka 
immediately after admission are issued. if any 
candidate does not receive the admission at least  
05 days prior to the date of commencing the 
Examination as mentioned in the notification, 
he/she should inquire from the organizations 
and foreign Examinations Branch of the  
department of Examinations, Sri lanka as 
indicated in the notification. In inquiring so, 
the  title of the Examination applied for, full 
name of the applicant, National identity card 
number and address should be accurately 
mentioned. if the applicant resides outside 
Colombo, it will be much beneficial to inquire 
for the admission referring a fax number along 
with such particulars of the applicant through 
which he can immediately obtain a copy of the 
admission. in inquiring so, it will be helpful for 
the applicant to keep a copy of the application, 
copy of the receipt obtained by paying the 
Examination fees and the receipt issued in the 
process of posting the application in order to 
substantiate any information inquired by the 
department of Examinations.
 (viii) the commissioner General of Examinations 
reserves the authority of postponing or 
cancelling the Examination on the approval of 
the Public Service commission.
 (ix) candidates are subject to rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in relation to the conduct of 
the Examination. in case such rules and 
regulations are violated by a candidate, he/she 
has to undergo a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner general of Examinations. 
 (x) identity of candidate - Every candidate should 
prove his/her identity at the Examination 
Hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor of 
Examinations. only one of the following 
documents will be  accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a Valid passport
Note.- (a) any document or a copy should not be 
annexed to the application.
 (b) applications of candidates, who are 
unable to submit documents whenever 
such documents are requested, are not 
entertained.
 
 (xi) the candidature of any candidate will 
be cancelled in any occasion prior to the 
examination or during the Examination or after 
the Examination if it is proved that the candidate 
is not qualified. In case any candidate proved to 
have submitted false information on purpose 
or has suppressed certain important facts on 
purpose, he/she is subjected to be dismissed 
from the service.
 (xii) Applications should be sent by the officers 
employed in the Public Service/Provincial 
Public Service through their Head of the 
department/institution. it is compulsory for 
every candidate to make his signature attested 
prior to sitting the examination. a candidate 
who sits the Examination from an institution 
should make his signature attested by the Head 
of the institution where he serves. a candidate 
who does not belong to that category should 
make his signature attested by a Head of a 
Government School/Retired Head, Grama 
Niladhari of the division, a Justice of Peace, 
a commissioner of oaths, lawyer, Notary 
Public, A commissioned Officer in the three 
forces, a permanent Staff Grade Officer serving 
in the Public Service or in a local Government 

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1423
Service drawing an annual consolidated salary 
of Rs. 240,360 or a higher salary, a chief 
incumbent or Nayaka thero of a Buddhist 
temple or a clergy in charge of another religious 
place holding a considerable position. 
 (xiii) Releasing of Results.– the Register of 
candidates who have qualified in the Written 
Examination will be issued to the Secretary, 
Public Service commission as per the chapter 
9.1.2. of the Gazette  Notification. Results will 
be personally informed to all the candidates sat 
the examination or will be uploaded in the web 
sit of www.exam.results.gov.lk
 (xiv) the decision of the Public Service commission 
in relation to filling of vacancies will be final 
and conclusive.
11. in case of a discrepancy exists in the texts of this 
Gazette notification published in the Sinhala, Tamil and 
English languages, the Sinhala text will prevail.
 
By order of the Public Service commission,
 W. M. 
bandusena,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Education.
on 10
th June 2016.  
schedule
marking scheme of the structured interview for oPen recruitments to grade iii of the sri lanka 
teacher educators' service
(for the other Subjects except Second language Sinhala and Second language tamil )
Part I – maximum of 50 marks
Note:- Marks will be awarded for certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications indicated in para 04 of the 
Gazette Notification subjected to the maximum limit of marks.
01. Additional Educational qualifications Maximum of 15 Marks
 1.1  Post Graduate degree or above   10
   (on Education or on the relevant subject)
 1.2 Post Graduate diploma   05
02. Experience gained in the profession of Teaching maximum of 15 marks 
 03 Marks each per every year of active and satisfactory service in the profession
 of teaching will be offered for a maximum of 05 years.
03. Proficience in English Language Maximum of 10 Marks 
 3.1 candidates should have followed English as a Subject of the degree   10
 3.2 candidates should have followed the degree in English Medium   08
 3.3 candidates should have passed English as a subject of the G.c.E.(a/level)
   Examination   06
 3.4 candidates should have followed the G.c.E.(a/level ) Examination in
   English Medium   04
 3.5 candidates should have followed a diploma course of a university or a    
   Recognized institution (for one year or more than that )   03
 3.6 Certificate course in a recognized University   02
 3.7 distinction / Very Good Pass/ credit pass for the subject of English 
   at the G.c.E.(o/level) Examination   01
04. knowledge in Information Technology maximum of 10 marks 
 4.1 Post Graduate degree in information and communication technology   10
 4.2 degree in information and communication technology   08
 4.3 candidates should have followed information and communication technology  
   as a subject of the degree   06
 4.4 diploma course in information and communication technology
   (1 year or more than that )   04
 4.5 Certificate Course on Information and Communication Technology
   (More than 06 Months )   02
 4.6 Certificate Course on Information and Communication Technology
   (up to 06 Months )   01  
                Total marks   50
 

<!-- page 58 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1424
Part  II – Practical Examination – maximum of 50 marks
01. Preparation of a lecture note for conducting a lecture under a topic given    25
 by the Board of Examiners in relation to the subject
02. conduct of a lecture before the board of examiners in relation to the matters 
 mentioned in the lecture note   25
  
   Total marks   50
schedule
marking scheme for the structured interview for limited  recruitments to grade iii of the sri lanka teacher 
educators' service
(for the Subjects of Second language Sinhala and Second language tamil )
Part I – maximum of  50 marks
Note:- Marks will be awarded for certificates obtained in addition to the qualifications indicated in para 04 of the 
Gazette Notification subjected to the limit of maxium marks.
01. Additional Educational qualifications Maximum of 15 Marks 
 1.1  Post Graduate degree or above   10
  (on Education or on the relevant subject)
 1.2 Post Graduate diploma   03
 1.3 candidates should have passed the level ii of Sinhala /t amil or should   02
  have passed Second language Sinhala/tamil subjects with a credit pass 
   at the G.c.E. (o/level ) Examination along with a pass for oral test
  conducted by the Department of Official Languages (Under this,marks
  will be awarded for the subject of Second language Sinala for tamil  
  Language Certificates and the subject of Second Language Tamil for Sinhala
  Language Certificates
02. Experience gained in the profession of Teaching maximum of 15 marks 
 03 Marks each per every year of active and satisfactory service in the profession
 of teaching will be offered for a maximum of 05 years.
03.Proficiency in English Language Maximum of 10 Marks 
 3.1 candidates should have followed English as a Subject of the degree   10
 3.2 candidates should have followed the degree in English Medium   08
 3.3 candidates should have passed English as a subject of the G.c.E.(a/level)
  Examination   06
 3.4 candidates should have followed the G.c.E.(a/level ) Examination in
  English Medium   04
 3.5 candidates should have followed a diploma course of a university or a    
  Recognized institution (for one year or more than that )   03
 3.6 Certificate course in a recognized University   02
 3.7 distinction / Very Good Pass/ credit pass for the subject of English 
  at the G.c.E.(o/level) Examination   01

<!-- page 59 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1425
04. knowledge in Information Technology maximum of 10 marks 
 4.1 Post Graduate degree in information and communication technology   10
 4.2 degree in information and communication technology   08
 4.3 candidates should have followed information and communication technology  
  as a subject of the degree   06
 4.4 diploma course in information and communication technology
  (1 year or more than that )   04
 4.5 Certificate Course on Information and Communication Technology
  (More than 06 Months )   02
 4.6 Certificate Course on Information and Communication Technology
  (up to 06 Months )   01
  
                      Total marks   50
Part  II – Practical Examination – maximum of 50 marks
01. Preparation of a lecture note for conducting a lecture under a topic given  25
 by the Board of Examiners in relation to the subject
02. conduct of a lecture before the board of examiners in relation to the matters 
 mentioned in the lecture note   25
                      Total marks   50
SPeCIMeN APPLICATION FORM
 
(For Office Use Only)
Competitive examination for Recruitment to Grade III of 
the Sri Lanka teacher Educators' Service - 2015(2016)
 
the Medium of sitting the Examination
 Sinhala -2
 t amil -3
 English -4 
(indicate the relevant number inside the cage) 
Mention the Subject applying for and the code Number 
in the table given below. (in relation to the Gazette 
Notification)
Ref. Number Subject Subject Number
 1
 2
 3
01. 1.1 Name in full (in English Block capitals) :–––––.
  (eg.: HERatH MudiyaNSElaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name mentioning the last name first and the initials 
at the end (in English block capitals) :–––––––––. 
(eg.: GuNaWaRadHaNa, H.M.S.K.)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––. 
02. 2.1 Permanent address (in English Block capitals) 
:–––––––––.
 2.2 Personal telephone Number (if available) :              
–––––––––.
 2.3 Official Address (In English Block Capitals) : 
–––––––––.
 2.4 Official Telephone Number (If Available) :         
–––––––––.
 2.5 Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––.
 2.6 address to which the admission should be sent (in 
English Block capitals) :–––––––––.
03. Sex:-
  Male - 0
  female - 1
  (indicate the relevant Number inside the cage)
04 . National identity card No. :
05. 5.1 Ethnicity :
  Sinhala - 1
  t amil - 2
  indian t amil - 3
  Muslim - 4
  other - 5
   (indicate the relevant number inside the cage)
 5.2 civil Status : 
       
unmarried - 1
  Married - 2
   (indicate the relevant number inside the cage)

<!-- page 60 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1426
 5.3 date of Birth :
  y ear :  Month : date :
 5.4 age as at 29.07.2016 :
  y ears :  Months :  days :
06.  Educational Qualifications:
 (a) (i) date of obtaining degree or the other 
qualifications :––––––––––.   
(Effective date)
  (ii) Degree/Other qualifications (Title) :––––––.
  (iii) Major subjects studied :––––––––––.
  (iv) university/institute  :––––––––––.
  (v) External/internal :––––––––––.
 (b) (i) date of passing Post Graduate diploma in 
Education :––––––––––.
  (ii) Subjects followed :––––––––––.
  (iii) university/institute :––––––––––.
 (c) (i) Subject number indicated under the 
exception :––––––––––.
  (ii) Number relevant to the qualification under 
the exception :––––––––––.
07. (i) date of first appointment to the Public Service as 
a teacher :––––––––––.
 (ii) Subject for which the teaching appointment has 
been granted :––––––––––.
 (iii) Zone of Education in which the candidate is 
serving currently :––––––––––.
 (iv) Period of service as at 29.07.2016 :
  y ears :––––––. Months :–––––––. days :––––––.
08. (i) y ear of obtaining teachers' training :––––––––––.
 (ii) Name of the National college of Education/
teachers' training college :––––––––––.
 (iii) Effective Date of the Training Certificate :–––––.
 (iv) Subject field in which the training has been 
obtained :––––––––––.
 (v) date of obtaining the teaching appointment for 
the subject related to the training :––––––––––.
 (vi) Period of service from the date of appointment up 
to 29.07.2016-
  y ears :............ Months :…….. days :............. 
09 Have you been confirmed in the present post you are 
holding?
10. indicate the language of passing the Examination 
through which you have obtained qualifications to  
enter the Public Service :––––––––––.
11. Examination fees :
Firmly affix the receipt obtained after paying the 
Examination fees
(Please keep a photo copy of the receipt with you)
12.  i hereby declare that the information furnished by 
me are true according to my knowledge and belief 
and the receipt No….dated……obtained after paying 
examination fees has been affixed to the application. 
further, i agree to abide by rules and regulations of the 
Examination and the rules and  regulations imposed 
by the commissioner General of Examinations and 
to accept  the cancellation of my candidature or any 
decision taken before or during the Examination, if 
it is disclosed that I  am not qualified in terms of the 
rules of the Examination. i am aware that i am subject 
to dismissal from the service if it is revealed that i am 
not qualified even after selecting to the Post.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature of the Candidate
i do certify that Rev./Mr./Mrs./Miss……………… 
…..who has signed here resides in ..........................., is 
personally known to me he/she placed his/her signature 
before me. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official frank 
 of the attester.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
the application of ........................... is forwarded 
herewith. i would like to inform you that he/she is a 
permanent/temporary/casual ................................. serving 
in the department and he/she can/cannot be released from 
the service if he/she is selected to the post. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official frank of the 
 Head of the department/institution.
date :––––––––––.
department :––––––––––.
07-210/1

<!-- page 61 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1427
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIVE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Gov-
ernment Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIVE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book list)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (list of Jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 62 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'07'01
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.07.2016
1428
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2016
 July 01.07.2016 friday — 17.06.2016 friday 12 noon
  08.07.2016 friday –– 24.06.2016 friday 12 noon
  15.07.2016 friday –– 01.07.2016 friday 12 noon
  22.07.2016 friday –– 08.07.2016 friday 12 noon
  29.07.2016 friday –– 15.07.2016 friday 12 noon
 August 05.08.2016 friday — 22.07.2016 friday 12 noon
  12.08.2016 friday –– 29.07.2016 friday 12 noon
  19.08.2016 friday –– 05.08.2016 friday 12 noon
  26.08.2016 friday –– 12.08.2016 friday 12 noon
 September 02.09.2016 friday — 19.08.2016 friday 12 noon
  09.09.2016 friday –– 26.08.2016 friday 12 noon
  15.09.2016 thursday –– 02.09.2016 friday 12 noon
  23.09.2016 friday –– 09.09.2016 friday 12 noon
  30.09.2016 friday –– 15.09.2016 thursday 12 noon
 B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
21st June, 2016.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.