

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2238$40 - 2021 cQ,s ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'07'30
No. 2238/40  -   FRIDAY ,   JULY   30,   2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-  PG  5523— 545   (08/2021)
STRATEGIC   DEVELOPMENT   PROJECTS   ACT,  No.  14  OF  2008
Order under sub section (4) of Section 3
BY Virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3 (4) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of
2008, as amended, I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation, do by this Order;
(1) Identify and declare the “Dedicated Textile Manufacturing Zone” (hereinafter referred to as “the zone”), as a
Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project to set up the zone in an area of
up to 400 acres of land to be owned by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as “BOI”) in
Eravur, Batticaloa district to facilitate investments made by foreign/local textile manufacturers, a project of national
interest that is likely to bring economic and social benefit and also to change the landscape of the Country. The BOI
will be the implementing agency in coordination with the Ministry in charge of the subject of industry.
(2) Further declare that, the infrastructure requirement of the zone will be ready within twenty-four (24) months
from the date of approval of the Cabinet of Ministers in terms of Section 3 (3) of the Strategic Development
Projects Act, No.14 of 2008, as amended (hereinafter referred to as “SDP Act”).
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the SDP Act, the proposed exemptions set out
in the Schedule below to this Order shall apply to individual enterprises identified by the BOI as falling within the
purview of the Strategic Development Project identified herein and established within the zone, and will be

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
2A
customized for each said enterprise (hereinafter referred to as “the enterprise”) based on parameters such as size of
investment, type of the product to be manufactured, market orientation, domestic value addition, etc. Individual
enterprises shall be eligible for selected incentives out of the incentives referred in the item numbers (1) to (5) of the
Schedule based on the above parameters.
(4) The incentives referred in the Schedule shall be reviewed every five (05) years with effect from the date of
approval of the parliament for this zone in terms of Section 3(5)  of the SDP Act and submitted to the Cabinet for its
approval followed by way of a fresh Order under Section 3 (4) of the SDP Act.
(5) BOI shall grant Incentives for each enterprise which will be stipulated in the individual agreement between the BOI
and the enterprise (hereinafter referred to as “BOI Agreement”).
SCHEDULE
(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of  2017
(a) Exemption from Corporate Income Tax (CIT)
Following Corporate Income Tax Exemptions/Concessions will be granted for the total income generated by the
enterprise;
Minimum No. of Years
Employment
(Nos.) Tax 50 percent
Investment (USD million) Holiday of concessionary CIT
rate applicable for
exporters at that time
Greater than or equal to 10 150 5 2
and less than 15
(>=10, <15)
Greater than or equal to 15 200 7 2
and less than 20
(>=15, < 20)
Greater than or equal to 20 300 8 3
and less than 25
(>=20 < 25)
Greater than or equal to 25 350 9 4
and less than 30
(>=25 < 30)
Greater than or equal to 30 400 10 5
(>=30)

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
3A
The said exemption period shall be reckoned after one and half years (18 months) from the date in which the enterprise
executes the agreement with BOI. After the expiry of the aforesaid tax holiday and concessionary period, for the income
generated through;
i. Exports including deemed exports, the concessionary Corporate Income Tax (CIT) rate applicable for
exporters at that time shall be applicable
ii. Import substitution via other sales to local market, the Corporate Income Tax (CIT) rate applicable for
manufacturers at that time shall be applicable.
(b) Income Tax on Employment
Up to a maximum number of ten (10) expatriate employees of the enterprise shall be exempted from
income tax arising from gains and profits from employment in the enterprise in the zone for a period of
five (05) years.
(2) The Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Value Added Tax (V AT) under the Value Added
Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 and its amendments for the following;
i. Construction related items
- On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) or supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V A T administration system (e.g. Simplified Value Added Tax - SV AT)
administrated by the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise during the project
implementation period
ii. Capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) for the use of both production for export, including deemed
exports, and import substitution via sales to local market
- On all Imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) and supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system ( e.g. SV AT) administrated by the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise.
iii. Raw materials and production/process related consumables for both production for export including deemed
exports and import substitution via sales to local market
- On all Imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) and supply from any registered
person, who is registered with the V AT administration system ( e.g. SV AT) administrated by the
Commissioner General of Inland Revenue to the enterprise.
Accordingly, V AT shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by the
enterprise.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
4A
(3) The Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of  2011
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of  Ports and  Airports Development Levy (PAL)
under the Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011 and its amendments;
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project implementation period ;
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas (Customs
or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via sales
to local market; and
iii. On all imports including purchases from bonded areas (Customs; or BOI) of raw materials and production/
process related consumables for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution
via sales to local market.
Accordingly, PAL shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by the
enterprise.
(4) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Customs Import Duty (CID) under the Customs
Ordinance (Chapter 235) ;
i On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project Implementation period ;
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas (Customs
or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via sales
to local market ; and
iii. On all imports of raw materials and production/process related consumables including purchases from bonded
areas (Customs or BOI) for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via
sales to local market  as approved by the BOI excluding the items in the Negative List published by the
Ministry of Finance.
However, any importation of items in the Negative List shall be considered by the Board of  Directors of BOI,
where such items are not available in sufficient quality, quantity and to conform to the time lines of the project
completion.
Accordingly, CID shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of  finished  goods to the local market by
the enterprise.
(5) The Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40  of 1979.
The enterprise shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Commodity Exports Subsidy Scheme (CESS)
under the Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 and its amendments;
i. On all imports of construction related items including purchases from bonded areas (Customs or BOI) during
project Implementation period ;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'07'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.07.2021
5A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
ii. On all imports of capital goods (plant, machinery, equipment) including purchases from bonded areas
(Customs or BOI) for the use of both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution
via sales to local market; and
iii. On all imports of raw materials and production/process related consumables including purchases from bonded
areas (Customs or BOI) for both production for export including deemed exports and import substitution via
sales to local market.
Accordingly, CESS shall not be charged for import substitution via sales of finished goods to the local market by
the enterprise.
M
AHINDA RAJAPAKSA, M. P.,
Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation.
Ministry of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation,
July 30, 2021.
08 - 328