

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2424$26 - 2025 fmnrjdß ui 18 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2025'02'18
No. 2424/26 -  tuesday,   february  18 ,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
EASTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
1a - PG 7036 - 05 (02/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
Standard By-Law
by  virtue of power vested in me under sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Local Government Institutions (standard 
by-Laws) act No. 6 of 1952 to be read with paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Provincial Councils act,  
No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential Provisions) in pursuance of the powers conferred on me by sub-section (1) of section 123 of 
the said Pradeshiya sabha act, No. 12 of 1987 read with sub-section 2(l)(a) of the Provincial Councils act, No. 12 of 1989 
(Consequential Provisions) I, Professor Jayantha Lal ratnasekera, Governor of the eastern Province, under the subject of 
Local Government of the Provincial Council, do hereby announce that, the draft by-laws prepared by me, Professor Jayantha 
Lal ratnasekera, are hereby published.
   the Pradeshiya sabhas are empowered by sections 126 of the said act to be read with section 122 of the Pradeshiya 
sabha act No. 15 of 1987 to make by-laws containing the provisions contained in the said draft by-laws and these draft by-
laws are the said local government authorities (standard by-laws) the Pradeshiya sabhas of the eastern Province are hereby 
authorized to accept subject to the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the (standard by-Laws) act.
 Professor Jayantha Lal Ratnasekera,
 Honourable Governor,
 eastern Province.   
 
Governor's Secretariat Office,
Lower road, Orr's Hill,
trincomalee,
On the day of december 20, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'18
Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2025
2a
standard by-law for issuing license for those involved in Money Lending businesses with in the Pradeshiya 
sabha divisions of the eastern Province.
 1. these standard by-laws are enacted under the authority vested by sub-section XXXX of section 
126, of the Local Council act No.  15 of  1987, read  with section 122 of the act for the purpose 
of issuing licenses for persons engaged in money-lending businesses within the jurisdiction of the 
Pradeshiya sabha.
 2. (1) No person shall engage in a money-lending business within the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya 
sabhas without obtaining a valid license for the said  purpose issued  by the Chairman.
  (2) (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section 1,these standard by-laws shall  not 
apply  to  any  money-lending, mortgage, or  financial business conducted under a valid 
license obtained in accordance with the Pawnbrokers Ordinance No. 01 of 2015 (as amended 
by the Pawnbrokers act No. 04 of 2014), Co-operative societies (amendment)  Ordinance  
No.  10  of  1990,  statute  No.  30  of  1988  banking acts, agrarian development  act  No. 
46 of 2000,  financial Leasing act  No. 56 of  2006, finance business act No.42 of 2011, 
samurdhi act No.01of 2013 (as amended by the divi Naguma (amendment) act No 2 of 
2017)
 3. (1) every  person  intending to  operate  a  money-lending  business  within the jurisdiction of 
the Pradeshiya sabhas must complete an application form as provided in  the  first  schedule  
and  submit  it  to  the  Chairman, along  with  the  relevant documents and a non-refundable 
application fee of rs. 100,000.00.
  (2)  upon  submission  of  a  formal  application  to  the  council  for  a  license, the application 
shall be referred to the committee under sub-section (3),and the license shall be issued by 
the Chairman only based on the committee's decision.
  (3) Upon fulfilling the  provisions outlined  in these  by-laws, the  license issued  by the chairman, 
based on the recommendation of the following committee, should align with the second 
schedule. the committee consists of nine members:
 (a) the Vice Chairman
 
 (b) three members (with female representation)
 (c) A Police Officer in Charge nominated by the Senior Superintendent of Police of the 
jurisdiction
 (d) a  member of the Housing and Community development Committee
 (e) the secretary
 (f) the revenue Inspector
 (g) a  representative of the assistant Commissioner of Local Government
 
 (4) a  quorum of 2/3 is required for the committee to proceed. the chairman holds the deciding 
vote in case of a tie.
application 
Procedure

<!-- page 3 -->

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'18
Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2025
3a
 4. the following conditions must be met to obtain a license to operate a money lending business 
within the jurisdiction of the Pradeshiya shabha area:
 (a) the applicant must be a sri Lankan citizen and above 18 years of age.
In the case of a multinational company, the applicant 's shareholding must be considered.
 (b) the applicant must not have any prior convictions in sri  Lankan courts ((this must be 
confirmed by the Sri Lanka Police).
 (c) In order to open and maintain an office within the jurisdiction of the pradeshiya Shabha 
for the purposes of lending and recovering funds, it is required that documentation be 
submitted to demonstrate that ownership of the relevant premises has been established 
for a minimum of three years. If the property is (leasehold, the registered lease must also 
have a duration of at least three years.)   Furthermore, sufficient parking space must be 
provided, ensuring convenient access to the office building.
 (d)  the following information must be submitted: details about the assets,records of 
previous loans, registration information,details about the  board  of directors  (if 
applicable),information on similar lending centers in other areas,and the income certificate  
obtained  from  the  divisional  secretary.  additionally,  any  relevant documents related 
to the payment of income tax should be included.
 (e) A report confirming that the location is suitable secure building and secure for the protection 
of funds must be submitted.
 (f) a  trade license obtained for the relevant location should be provided.
 (g)  the following documents related to lending money must be prepared in all three                
languages, and  a  copy  of  each  must  be submitted  with  the  application  form through 
an affidavit:
 i. application form to be submitted by the loan applicant.
 ii. agreement to be signed by the creditor and the borrower, outlining all conditions 
presented by the creditor regarding loan repayments.
 iii. receipt to be issued upon recovery of funds.
 iv. An affidavit confirming that the interest charged for lending shall not exceed 3% per 
annum, as declared by the Central bank.
 v. Submission of a certified statement explaining the nature of the mortgage, security 
or sureties or guarantors to be kept for the loan amount granted.
 vi. An affidavit outlining how the lender plans to recover the loan in case of default.
 vii.  In the event that a license issued for any money lending business has not been 
canceled, both prior to and following the expiration of its validity period, there shall 
be no requirement to resubmit documentation when applying for a new license for 
the upcoming year, provided there have been no changes to the details submitted 
in previous years. Additionally, an annual :financial report certified by a registered 
auditor must be submitted.
 5. a  license issued under these by-laws:
 a. the licensee shall not assign the license to any other person.
Conditions to be 
fulfilled to obtain 
a licence

<!-- page 4 -->

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'18
Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2025
4a
 b. the operation shall not be carried out at any place other than the place for which it is issued;
 c. unless earlier revoked, if the license was issued for a particular year it shall expire on the 
thirty first day of December of the same year.
 6. any person who conducts a money lending business shall carry out such business in accordance 
with the following conditions.
 1. shall not lend or recover money at any place other than the place specified in paragraph 4(c);
 2. shall not use any form other than the formats provided under paragraph (4) (g).
 3.  the agreement to be signed with the borrower should be in three copies  and  one  copy  should  
be  given  at  the  same  time  to  the borrower. the  loan  agreement  should  be given  in the  
borrower's mother tongue (sinhala / tamil):
 4. the lender shall issue a receipt for  every amount recovered from the  borrower.  the  loan 
installment  capital  recovered,  interest recovered and if there  is a late fee charged for late 
payment,the late payment fee and the total amount collected should be clearly recorded on 
the said receipt.
 5. Loan recovery should be done on monthly basis.
 6. Provision should be made enabling the borrower to  pay the  loan capital installment,interest 
and other fees through a bank account or to pay in cash.
 7. the  amount  of  money  advanced  and  collected  by  the  money  lending business,along 
with the number of defaulters and the total amount  due  and  payable  must  be submitted to 
the  Chairman by the  10th day of January and July each year. A financial statement certified 
by an appointed auditor,or an affidavit if submitted by an individual,shall be included.
 8. the license must be prominently displayed at the lending location.
 7. any person carrying on a  money-lending business shall take into account the  borrower's ability  to  
repay the  amount  to  be provided  as a  loan  in deciding the  loan amount. an amount exceeding 
the  repayment capacity according to an income statement approved  by the  divisional secretary, 
should not be provided as a loan.
 8. In case of default by any borrower, it is an offense to threaten or force the borrower to repay the 
loan amount or to take any of his or her movable or immovable property by force or subject to 
emotional or mental abuse.
 9. (1)  every  person  who  carries  on  the  business  of  lending  money,  must maintain accounts  
and books of  accounts  in relation to the business and the business and must prepare annual 
statement of accounts at the end of the year and have the statements audited annually by a 
registered auditor.
  (2) It shall be the duty of the person carrying on the money lending business to submit to the 
Chairperson a copy of the  audited  annual statement  of accounts certified by the auditor 
within a month.
 
 10. The  Chairman  or  an  officer  authorized  by him  shall  have  the  power to inspect, within the 
period,whether the conditions contained in these by  laws have been properly followed at any place 
to which these by laws shall apply. also, the owner of the money lending business or any person 
acting on his behalf must give permission for it and no person should attempt to prevent or interfere 
with those inspections.
Annual 
statement of 
accounts in 
respect of a 
business
Power to 
inspect place 
of business

<!-- page 5 -->

IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'02'18
Part IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2025
5a
 11. Where a permit has been issued under these by-laws in any area, if any of the  conditions  
outlined in these  by-laws  have  been  breached, or  if the chairperson  believes  that  one  or 
more  conditions  in these  by-laws  have been  violated, the  chairperson  is  authorized  to  issue  
a  written  notice specifying  that  the  licensee  must  take  all  necessary  actions  to  ensure 
compliance with the mentioned conditions and regulations set forth in the by-laws by a specified 
date.
 12. any person who receives a notice as described in section 11must comply with the  instructions  
in the  notice  before the specified  date. If a request for  an  extension  is  made, the  Additional 
time  granted shall  not  exceed fourteen (14) days.
 13. (l) ln cases  where  a  person  who  has  received  a  notice  as  described  in section  11 fails  to  
comply  with  the  specified  instructions  by  the  given deadline or any extended date,the 
Chairman shall issue a written notice to the relevant location stating that the license is 
being revoked.
  (2) Notices of cancellation must be displayed in public places.(in all three languages) 
  (3)  If such notice remains unaddressed, and the operation continues an application for a 
winding-up order should be filed under section 167 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act.
 14.  A fine of up to seven hundred and fifty rupees may be imposed for any act or omission that 
contravenes a by-law established by a local council,along with a written notice to the offender 
in the event of ongoing violations. Additionally, a competent court may impose an extra fine of 
up to two hundred and fifty rupees for each day that the contravention persists after the initial 
offense.
 15. In these standard by-laws, unless specified otherwise, the term "Person" includes any group of 
individuals, whether incorporated or not.
"Borrower"  will  be  the  person  who   under these  by-laws, has  borrowed  from  a  person 
who  is  operating  a  money  lending  business where  the  loan  amount  has  been  
not  been settled 
"Lender" means .a person carrying on any business of lending money to which these by  laws 
apply;
"Money Lending Business" refers to organizations providing money lending services that 
are not classified under the businesses specified in Section 2(1) of the aforementioned 
by-Laws and are operating within the Pradeshiya sabha
eOG 02 - 0209
PrINted at tHe dePartMeNt Of GOVerNMeNt PrINtING,  srI LaNKa.
Need to act as 
specified
Power to Cancel 
License in Case of 
Default
Penalties for 
violations of 
conditions
Interpretati ons
Action for 
violation of 
conditions of 
license