

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
DENSRI EDUCATION FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 252]
————————
Presented by Hon. Dilum Amunugama, M.P. for   Kandy District
 on 20th June, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on April 29, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Densri Education Foundation (Incorporation)
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs.6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2-
2—PL 007361—850 (06/2013)
————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Densri Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 007159—  75 (04/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DENSRI EDUCATION FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “ Densri
Education Foundation ” has been established in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
all objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Densri Education
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as are members of the “Densri
Education Foundation”  (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of 
“Densri Education
Foundation”,  and by that name may sue and be sued in  all
courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to initiate, maintain and uplift the educational
activities, such as establishing pre-schools in
different parts of the island, especially in rural and
war-affected areas for those who have no access to
pre-school education presently;
Incorporation
of the 
Densri
Education
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Densri Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) to provide study materials, equipments and
deucation facilities for the law income families and
differently abled children;
(c) to assist schools and educational institutes in  the
fields of Sports and Information Technology;
(d) to provide youth with opportunities for Leadership
Training by organizing workshops, lectures,
seminars, exhibitions, orientation programs, teacher
training programs in order to promote knowledge
as the most effective means to address the challenges
of contemporary society;
(e) to create facilities for Sinhalese to learn Tamil
Language and Tamils to learn Sinhalese and for
everyone to learn English, thus removing
the language barrier and promote better
understanding among different ethnic groups and
lead them towards inter-cultural, inter-religious and
inter-ethnic relationships;
(f) to establish opportunities for Vocational Training
and skills development;
(g) to bring about a sustainable development by
making an awareness in children on preservation
of environment and cultivate a habit of planting
trees;
(h) to establish library facilities and implement
Television and Radio Educational Programms;
(i) to conduct eye, blood donation and medical camps
to help out children in low income families;
(j) to do all such other acts, matters and things as are
incidental or conductive to the attainment of the
objectives of the Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Densri Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to enter into all contracts directly or through a
representative as may be necessary, to borrow or raise money
with or without security, to receive or collect grants and
donations and payments of interests thereto, to invest its
fund in local and foreign investment with the view of raising
funds of the Corporation, to engage, employ and dismiss
officers and servants required for the carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the 
Corporation
shall be subject to the rules of the Corporation, be
administered by an Executive Council (hereinafter referred
to as the “Council”) consisting of not more than six office
bearers inclusive of the Chairman, Managing Director,
Secretary, Treasurer and such number or members as may be
provided or in rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Executive Council of the Corporation shall be
the Executive Council of the Foundation holding office on
the day preceding the date of the commencement of this Act.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time at a general meeting and by a majority of not less than
two-third of the members present and voting to make rules,
not inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for  all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the election, appointment or nomination of the
members of the Board of Management and their
powers and duties and terms of office;
(b) the powers, conduct of duties and functions of
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
Powers of the
Corporation.
35
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Densri Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(c) the procedure to be observed at the,summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of the
Committee of Management, the time, place, notice
and agenda of such meetings, the quorum therefore
and the conduct of business thereat;
(d) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership of Committee of management and of
the Corporation;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation the custody of its funds and
maintenance and audit of the account; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made under subsection (1)  may it a like
meeting and in like manner to or rescinded be amended,
altered, added.
(3) All rules of the Foundation in force on the day
immediately preceding the date of commencement of the
Act shall in so far, as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law, be deemed
to be rules made under this section.
(4) All member of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
be paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts
due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold andy property movabel or immovable
which may become vested in it virtue of purchase, grant, gift
testamentary  disposition of otherwise, and all such property
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Densri Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of this Act
with power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of them.
9. The Seal of the Corporation shall be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of  such number
of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such  signing shall be
independent of the signing  of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice of
affect the rights of the Republic or any body  corporate or
any other person except such as are mentioned in this Act
and those claiming by, from, or under them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Densri Education Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .