

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2010
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1641$41 - 2010 fmnrjdß 18 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2010'02'18
No. 1641/41 - THURSDAY,   FEBRUARY   18,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
THE  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  LAW,  No.  41  OF  1978
Order under Section  3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 3 of the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978, I,
Dinesh Chandra Rupasinghe Gunawardene, Minister of Urban Development and Sacred Area Development being  of the
opinion  that the area specified  in  Column I of the Schedule, appended hereto, having  specified  metes and bounds in  the
corresponding entry in Column II of the Schedule, are suitable for development, do by  this order declare such area to be an
Urban Development Area for the purpose of that Section.
D
INESH CHANDRA RUPASINGHE GUNAW ARDENA,
Minister of Urban Development and  Sacred Area Development.
Ministry of Urban Development and  Sacred Area Development,
“Sethsiripaya”,
Battaramulla.
05th February, 2010.
SCHEDULE
M
ORAWAKA   URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AREA
Column I Column II
The entire land are surrounded by metes and bounds of
following Grama Niladhari Divisions as described in
Column II.
No. 262 B Rambukana East, No. 262 E   Aluwana, No. 262 A
Waliwa, No. 262 C Kodikaragoda West of Pitabaddara
Pradeshiya Sabha Area  within the Pitabaddara Divisional
Secretariat Division in the Matara District of the Southern
Province.
North : From the intersecting point where the center line of
Morawaka - Neluwa Road and Kodikaragoda - Rambukana
Road, a line drawn towards South-East along the center
line of Morawaka - Neluwa Road until it meets the center line
of Goluwandola Road ; thence, a line drawn towards
North - East along the center line of Goluwandola Road
until it meets the center line of Kalugalayaya Road
(Arachigewatta Temple Road) ; thence, a straight line drawn
towards North-East up to the junction where the centre line
of Tapalwatta Road meets the centre line of Millawa Road ;
thence, a line drawn towards North-West along the center
line of Millawa Road up to the center line of an Ela at 150 m

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2010
2A
SCHEDULE   (Contd.)
Column I Column II
(through lands of Morawaka Junior School and Vijaya
House ); thence, a line drawn towards North-East and South-
East along the center line of the said Ela until it meets the
center line of Millawa Ela ; thence, a line  drawn towards
South-East along the center line of Millawa Ela until it
meets the center line of Galle -Akuressa - Madampa Road
(62/3 Culvert) ; thence, a line drawn towards North-East along
the center line of Galle - Akuressa - Madampa Road until it
meets center line of D. S. Abegunawardena Mawatha :
East : From the last mentioned point a line drawn towards
South-East along the center line of D. S. Abeygunawardena
Mawatha until it meets the center line of Aluwana Road ;
thence, a line drawn towards South-West and South-East
along the center line of Aluwana Road until it meets center
line of Weliwa Temple Road ; thence, a line drawn towards
South-West along the center line of Weliwa Temple Road
until it meets center line of Udapalagawatta bridge ; thence, a
line drawn towards South-West wards and South-East wards
along the center line of   Nilwala River until it reaches a
distance of 500 meters ;
South : From the last mentioned point a line drawn towards
West along the center line of Nilwala River until it meets the
center line of Rambukana Ela ; thence, a line drawn towards
North-West along the center line of Rambukana Ela until
it meets the center line of Galle-Akuressa - Madmpa Road
(59/2 culvert);
West : From the last mentioned point a line drawn towards
North-East along the center line Galle - Akuressa - Madampa
Road until it meets center line of Rambukana Road ; thence, a
line drawn towards North-West along the center line of
Rambukana Road until it  meets the center line of
Kodikaragoda - Rambukana Road ; thence, a line drawn
towards North-East along Kodikaragoda - Rambukana Road
until it meets the starting point.
03-155/1

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2010
3A
THE  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AUTHORITY  LAW,  No.  41  OF  1978
Order under Section  3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me under Section 3 of the Urban Development Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978, I,
Dinesh Chandra Rupasinghe Gunawardene, Minister of Urban Development and Sacred Area Development being  of the
opinion  that the area specified  in  Column I of the Schedule, appended hereto, having  specified the  metes and bounds in
the corresponding entry in Column II of  Schedule, are suitable for development, do by  this order declare such area to be an
Urban Development Area for the purpose of that Section.
D
INESH CHANDRA RUPASINGHE GUNAW ARDENE,
Minister of Urban Development and  Sacred Area Development.
Ministry of Urban Development and  Sacred Area Development,
“Sethsiripaya”,
Battaramulla,
05th February, 2010.
SCHEDULE
PITABADDARA  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT  AREA
Column I Column II
The entire land area of the following GN Divisions
surrounded by meets and bounds as described in Column II.
No. 261 A Pitabaddara, 265 A Dankoluwa, No. 261 D
Kanduruwana, No. 261 Gorakawela, No. 265 Dehigaspe of
Pitabaddara Pradeshiya Sabha Area in the Matara District of
the Southern Province, (Pitabaddara Divisional Secretariat
Division).
North :  From the center line of Culvert No. 48/9 on the
Udugama - Akuressa Road a line drawn perpendicular to the
centre line of the said road towards North-East to a distance
of 300 meters ; a line drawn South-East wards parallel
to the centre line of Udugama - Akuressa Road until it
meets a point 300 meters from the centre line of Akuressa
Madampa Road ; thence, a line drawn North-East wards,
North wards and North - East wards along a line 300 meters
away parallel to the centre line of the said road until it meets
the centre line of Naththawila Road ; thence, a line drawn
South-East wards along the centre line of the said road
until it meets the centre line of Akuressa - Madampa Road ;
thence, a line drawn North-East wards along the said road
until it meets the centre line of Gorakawela road;
East : From the last mentioned point, a line drawn towards
South-East, along the centre line of Gorakawela Road until it
meets the North border of Gorakawela Gangagiri Vihara land
; thence, a line drawn North-Eastwards along the Northern
boundary of Gorakawela Gangagiri Vihara land until it meets
centre line of Nilwala River, thence, a line drawn towards
South-East, South-West along the centre line of Nilwala
River until it meets the centre line of Parawita Ela ; thence, a
line drawn towards North-East, South-East along the centre
line of Parawita Ela until it meets the centre line of Aladeniya
Road ; thence, a line drawn towards South-West along the
centre line of Aladeniya Road until it meets the center
line of Siyambalagoda - Akuressa Road ; thence, a line drawn
towards South-East along the centre line of Siyambalagoda -
Akuressa road until it meets the center line of Kotagala

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'18
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 18.02.2010
4A
SCHEDULE   (Contd.)
Column I Column II
Road ; thence, a line drawn towards South-East along the
centre line of Kotagala Road until it meets the centre line of
Meegahakanda Road ; thence, a line drawn towards South-
West, West along Meegahakanda Road until it meets the
meeting point of Northern and Eastern boundaries of the
land owned by Mara/Dehigaspe Dudley Senanayake
Maha Vidyala ; thence, a line drawn South-Westwards and
South-Eastwards along the Eastern boundary of the said land
until it meets the meeting point of Northern and Eastern
boundaries of  Rathambiliyagoda land ; thence, a line drawn
towards South along the Eastern boundary of the said land
until it meets the Northern boundary of Allagawahena land ;
thence, a line drawn towards East along the Northern
boundary of the said land until it meets the Eastern boundary
of the same land ; thence, a line drawn towards South along
the Eastern boundary of the said land until it meets the
Southern boundary of the same land ; thence, a line drawn
towards West along the Southern boundary of the said land
until it meets the centre line of Siyambalagoda - Akuressa
Road ; thence, a line drawn towards South along the center
line of Siyambalagoda-Akuressa Road until it meets the
Centre point of 13/5 Culvert ; thence, a line drawn towards
West along the centre line of canal flows along the Southern
boundary of Adaradeniyawatta until it meets the center line
of Nilwala River ; thence, a line drawn towards Southwest
along the center line of Nilwala River until it meets the centre
line of Tannapita Nilwala River Common Road ;
South : From the last mentioned point, a line drawn towards
South-West along the centre line of Tannapita Nilwala River
Common Road until it meets the centre line of Tannapita -
Kaduruwana Road ; thence, a line drawn  North-West along
the centre line of Tannapita  Kaduruwana Road until it meets
centre line of Galle - Akuressa - Madampa Road;
West : From the last mentioned point, a line drawn towards
North-East, South-East, North-West along the centre line of
Galle - Akuressa - Madampa Road until it meets the centre
line of Malpudanella Junction ; thence, a line drawn towards
North-West along the centre line of Udugama - Akuressa
Road until it meets the starting point.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.
03-155/2