

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
MADAHAPOLA SRI RATNAPALARAMAYA
RELIGIOUS AND BUDDHIST EDUCATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 6 OF 2015
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 06th April, 2015]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 11.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 10, 2015

<!-- page 2 -->

1Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
2—PL 006101—2000  (10/2014)
[Certified on 06th April, 2015]
L.D. — O. Inc. 23/2011.
A
N ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MADAHAPOLA SRI RATNAPALARAMAYA
RELIGIOUS  AND  B UDDHIST  E DUCATIONAL  D EVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a society called and known as the “Madahapola
Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist Educational
Development Foundation”, has heretofore been established
in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its
objects and transacting all matters connected with the said
society  according to the rules agreed to by its members.
AND WHEREAS the said society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was established and has applied to be incorporated
and it will be for the public advantage to grant the said
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Madahapola Sri
Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist Educational
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015.
2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and Buddhist
Educational Development Foundation (hereinafter referred
to as “the Foundation”) or  shall hereafter be admitted as
members of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a
body corporate with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious
and Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
Incorporation of
the Madahapola Sri
Ratnapalaramaya
Religious and
Buddhist
Educational
Development
Foundation.
Preamble.
Short Title.

<!-- page 3 -->

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
2
(hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”), and by that
name may sue and be sued with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
(2) The Corporation shall be deemed to be a Voluntary
Social Service Organization within the meaning and for the
purpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations
(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and the
provisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to the
management of the affairs of the Corporation.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to bring about moral and economical progress
amongst the adherents of the Buddhist faith;
(b) to assist for the quantitative and qualitative
development of Buddhist Bhikkus in historical
Yapahuwa area;
(c) to obtain advisory and financial assistance from
bhikku organizations, governmental organizations,
non-governmental Organizations, Sasana
Development Fund of the Dalada Maligawa, Sri
Siddartha Saranankara Welfare Foundation of
Malwathu Maha Viharaya and from foreign sources;
(d) to construct a building complex with residential
facilities for about one hundred bhikkus, endowed
with facilities for the development of activities
relating to Buddhism;
(e) to create a life style based on righteous employment
amongst the adherents of the Buddhist faith with
the assistance of relevant authorities;
Objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
(f) to provide various facilities to the adherents of the
Buddhist faith through temples based on the
concept “from temple to people”;
(g) to take necessary steps to lead the youth amongst
the adherents of the Buddhist faith towards a
righteous way of life guided by moral principles;
(h) to take measures to eradicate the drug addiction
which is a social menace;
(i) to encourage the commencement of pre-schools in
temple premises for the adherents of the Buddhist
faith and to implement programmes for children to
lead a religious life; and
(j) to take necessary steps to commence dhamma
schools in temples where dhamma schools are not
conducted.
 
4. The objects of the Corporation shall be carried out in
such manner so as not to create any conflict between the
work of the Corporation and any work being carried out
simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the
Government or of any Provincial Council.
5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the
management and administration of the affairs of the
Corporation shall be carried out by a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”) consisting of such
number of office bearers as may be specified by the rules
made under section 7.
(2) (a) The Board of the Foundation holding office on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act, shall function as the Board of the Corporation
until the first Board is appointed or elected in the manner
provided for by rules made under section 7.
Corporation
to ensure no
conflict with
work of
Ministry or
Department
of the
Government
or Province.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
4
(b) The first Board of the Corporation shall be appointed
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of
this Act.
(3) ( a) Every office bearer of the Board including the
patrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a
period of three years and any such office bearer, patron or
adviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the
death, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an
office bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of
the Corporation, elect or appoint a person to fill such
vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b)
shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term
of office of the member whom he succeeds.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessary
or desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the
objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including the
power—
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate
and otherwise obtain lands or buildings which
may be required for the purposes of the Corporation
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may
be deemed expedient with a view to promoting the
objects of the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise funds with or without
securities and to receive grants, gifts or donations
in cash or kind:
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior
written approval of the Department of External
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign
grants, gifts or donations made to the Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate, maintain, and close accounts
in any bank;
(d) to invest any funds that are not immediately required
for the purposes of the Corporation, in such manner
as the Board may determine;
(e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal
property with a view to promoting the objects of
the Corporation;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as may
be determined by the Corporation;
(g) to organize lectures, seminars and conferences with
a view to promoting the objectives of the
Corporation;
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutions having similar objects to that of the
Corporation; and
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purposes of the Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
6
7. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:–
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and fees payable by the members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from office of office bearers
and the powers, duties and functions of the office
bearers;
(c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,
functions and duties of various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be follwed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the  Board or any sub- Board
thereof, notices and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum and the conduct of business thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications to be a
member of the  Board and the Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation; and
(g) generally the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects
and dissolution of the Corporation.
 (2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in
like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of
this section.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times be
subject to the rules of the Corporation.
(4) The rules made under this section shall be published
in the Government Gazette.
8. The Board shall maintain a register of members in
which names, addresses and other essential details of the
members shall be inscribed.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grant for and on account
of the Corporation shall be deposited in one or more banks
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of money
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited
annually by the Auditor General or a qualified auditor
appointed by Auditor General in terms of Article 154 of the
Constitution.
(4) For the purposes of this section, "qualified auditor"
means–
(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other Institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute; or
Register of
members.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
auditing.

<!-- page 9 -->

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
8
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued
by the Council of such Institute.
11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities
of the Corporation for each financial year and submit such
report together with the audited statement of accounts to the
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subject
of Buddhasasana and Religious Affairs and to the Registrar
of Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under
the Voluntary Social Services Organizations  (Registration
and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration
of six months of the year succeeding the year to which such
report relates.
(2) A separate Account relating to the foreign and
local moneys received by the Corporation during the
financial year shall be attached to the report referred to in
subsection (1).
12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation
existing on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation
hereby constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the Foundation on that day
shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
13. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Corporation
shall be able and capable in law to take and hold any  property,
movable or immovable, which may become vested in it by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition  or
otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject to the rules
of the Corporation made under section 7, with power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,  the same.
Annual Report.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.

<!-- page 10 -->

9Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
14. The moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way of dividend,
bonus or profit to the members of the Corporation.
15. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of
two members of the Board who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence and such  signing shall
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by such
Board.
16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to any other institution having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is by
the rules thereof, prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriate
institution shall be determined by the members of
the Corporation immediately before the dissolution at a
general meeting by the majority of votes of the members
present.
17. Nothing in this Act  contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of  any body politic or
corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Application of
moneys and
property.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic .
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 11 -->

Madahapola Sri Ratnapalaramaya Religious and
Buddhist Educational Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No. 6 of 2015
10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .