

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1227
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1226
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"022 – 2017 cqks ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'06'02
No. 2,022 –  fRiday ,  juNE  02, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd june, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th june, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st january, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1223-B 81175- 5,403(06/2017)
N. B.– Parts ii and iii of the Gazette No. 2,021 of 26.05.2017 were not published.
N. B.–   (i) ananda aluthgamage development, Social Services and charity foundation (incorporation) Bill was published as a 
supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 26, 2017.
 (ii) Special deposit account Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of May 26, 2017.
 (iii) Electronic transactions (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 26, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1224
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1225
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1226
Posts – vacant
amendment
AuDITOR  GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Deputy Auditor General Grade I of 
Class I of the Sri Lanka Audit Service
Revision of the marking Scheme
thE Marking Scheme mentioned in the notice for calling 
applications for the direct recruitment to the post of deputy 
auditor General Grade i class i of the Sri Lanka audit 
Service published in the Gazette Notification No.1986 
of 23 September 2016 revised by the Public Service 
commission is published for information. accordingly, the 
closing date of applications is amended as 23 june 2017.
By order of the Public Service commission,
 Manel S. KapuKotuwa,
 director (administration).
auditor General’s department, 
306/72, Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla,
16
th May, 2017.
MaRkiNG SchEME foR thE REcRuitMENt 
to thE PoSt of dEPuty auditoR GENERaL 
GRadE i of cLaSS i of thE SRi LaNka audit 
SERVicE iN tERMS of PaRaGRaPh 3.1(a) of thE 
MiNutE oN thE SRi LaNka audit SERVicE
0 1 .  A d d i t i o n a l  P r o f e s s i o n a l  Q u a l i fi c a t i o n s :                                           
maximum 25 marks 
(a) In addition to basic qualifications, Accountancy 
or full professional qualifications in the field of 
audit                                       10 marks
 (i) t en marks for an applicant who has 
obtained associate membership of all 3 
institutes, namely institute of chartered 
accountants of Sri Lanka or in England 
and Wales or the chartered institute 
of Management accountants, united 
kingdom or the association of chartered 
Certified Accountants, United Kingdom, 
considering as having obtained 2 additional 
professional qualifications in addition to 
the basic qualification.
 (ii) five marks for an applicant who has obtained 
associate membership of 2 institutes out 
of the 3 institutes, namely the institute of 
chartered accountants of Sri Lanka or 
in England and Wales or the chartered 
institute of Management accountants, 
united kingdom or the association of 
Chartered Certified Accountants, United 
kingdom, considering as having obtained 
1 additional professional qualification in 
addition to the basic qualification.
(b) In addition to the above fields, professional 
q u a l i fi c a t i o n s  i n  a n o t h e r  fi e l d  o r  i n  t h e  l e g a l  fi e l d                                                                                                         
   (10 marks)  
 (i) Ten marks for professional qualifications 
in 02 fields out of the fields of Medical, 
Engineering or Legal  
 (ii) Five marks for professional qualifications 
in one field out of the fields of Medical, 
Engineering or Legal  
(c) For professional qualifications in Information 
technology                          (05 marks)
 (i) five marks for the degree in information 
technology (obtained from a recognized 
university or SLiit/NiBM)
 (ii) three marks for the diploma in information 
technology which covers over a period of one 
year (obtained from a recognized university 
or SLiit/NiBM)
02. Educational Qualifications:
doctorate 25 marks
M.Phil. 20 marks
Postgraduate degree, MSc/Ma 18 marks
Postgraduate diploma 15 marks
degree with a class 12 marks
 (i) first class 10 marks
 (ii) Second upper 10 marks
 (iii) Second Lower 08 marks
Special degree 10 marks
General degree 08 marks
diploma 05 marks

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1227
Note 01.– Marks will be given only for the highest 
qualification.
 
Note 02.– an additional 02 marks will be given if the 
above mentioned qualifications are completed 
relating to the field of Accountancy or Audit in 
addition to the highest qualifications.
03. Experience:             maximum 40 marks
(a) five marks per year for external applicants 
after the completion of 08 years in the service 
subsequent to fulfilling the basic qualifications.
(b) Five marks per year for officers with 08 years’ 
experience in the Staff Grade in Public Service/
Provincial Public Service/corporation Service 
after the completion of 04 years in the service 
subsequent to fulfilling the basic qualifications.
(c) five marks per year after obtaining basic 
qualifications for officers of the Sri Lanka 
audit Service with 08 years’ service in the Sri 
Lanka audit Service in the auditor General’s 
department.
04. for the Interview                 maximum 10 marks
N.B.– The qualifications or skills considered in 
giving marks, should be stated in the      
Schedule of interview.
06-79
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy Of WOmEN AND 
ChILD AffAIRS
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
the Post of Probation Officer of Department 
of Probation and Child Care Services - 2017 
September
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who 
fulfil the following qualifications for the Post of Probation 
Officer of the Department of Probation and Child Care 
Services. 
1. Method of Recruitment.- candidates who satisfy the 
prescribed qualifications will be recruited by the Public 
Service commission for the available vacancies in order 
of merit of the results of the applicants who have obtained 
pass marks for both subjects of the written examination. 
the effective date of this appointment will be decided 
on the order of the Public Service commission. 
2. Required Qualifications :
 (i) Educational Qualifications :
  a  degree from a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission including one 
or more subjects from Sociology/Psychology/
criminology. 
 (ii) Professional Qualifications :
  a  diploma of not less than six months obtained 
from a university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or from the National 
institute for Social development. 
 (iii) Physical Fitness.- Every candidate should be in 
good physical and mental order to serve in any 
part of the island and to discharge the duties of 
the post. 
 (iV) Other :
 * Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 * applicants must have an excellent moral 
character, 
 * Should have fulfilled all the required 
qualifications for recruitment to the post on 
the closing date of applications. 
 (V) Age limit.-  Should be between 21-35 
years.  
  (accordingly, only the applicants with the date 
of births falling on or before 31.01.1999 and on 
or after 31.01.1982 are eligible to apply). 
3. Conditions of engagement and Service Conditions : 
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
Selected candidates are required to contribute 
to the Widows/Widowers and orphans Pension 
Scheme. 
 (ii) this appointment will be subject to a probation 
period of three (03) years. appointed Probation 
Officers should pass the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination mentioned in the Scheme 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1228
of Recruitment within three (03) years of 
appointment. 
 (iii) Should acquire the relevant proficiency in 
other official language within five years from 
the date of recruitment to the post as per the 
Public administration circular 01/2004 and 
circulars incidental thereto. 
 (iv) this appointment will be subjected to 
procedural rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishment code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations of the government and 
other departmental regulations. 
4. Salary Scale.- this post is entitled to a monthly salary 
scale of Rs. 34,605 - 10x660 - 11x755 - 15x930 - Rs. 63,460. 
(as per the Section 07.1 of the Public administration 
circular 3/2016, the salary structure mentioned in the 
Schedule i shall be made applicable when the Salary Scale 
is mentioned in the letters of appointment issued in the 
recruitments/promotions made up to 01.01.2020. however, 
the payments shall be made as mentioned in Schedule ii). 
5.  Written examination : 
 (i) Will be held at colombo in the month of 
September 2017, by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for Public Service 
commission. 
 (ii) Examination : will be conducted in Sinhala 
medium. 
 (iii) Written examination will consist of following 
papers. 
Subject 
No.
Subject Duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Mark
01 Social 
development, 
Social Work 
and child 
care Services 
(in relation to 
Sri Lanka)
1 1/2 
hours
100 40%
02 case Studies 1 1/2 
hours
100 40%
Syllabus of the Written examination : 
 (a) Social Development, Social Work and Child 
Care (in relation to Sri Lanka) :
  how the problems related to children make 
a direct impact on the development process 
of the country and identifying solutions and 
suggestions for them, the role of a Social Worker 
and how the theoretical knowledge of "Social 
Work" can be practically applied when working 
with children, international convention on the 
rights of the child, identifying new trends in 
child care and how they can be applied within 
the Sri Lankan cultural setup. 
 (b) Case Studies :
  a  case/cases related to children will be given 
and the candidates are expected to study them 
and suggest effective practical solutions using 
their theoretical knowledge with emphasis to 
the Sri Lankan social, economic, cultural and 
legal setup. 
6. Method of application .- application should be 
prepared in a4 sheets in accordance with the specimen 
using both sides of the a4 paper and Section 01 to 06 in 
the first page and the remaining sections in the second and 
third pages. all entries in the application have to be made 
in the applicant's own clear hand writing. Name of the 
examination in the heading should be written additionally 
in English language in the case of Sinhala and tamil 
medium applications. 
all applications which do not comply with the specimen 
application and all incomplete applications will be rejected 
without any notification to the applicant. Keeping a 
photocopy of the application will be useful. 
 (i) application should be prepared in the medium 
of language which the applicant expects to sit 
for the examination. 
 (ii) duly completed applications should be 
sent under registered post to reach the 
commissioner of Examinations, organizations 
and foreign Examinations Branch, department 
of Examinations Sri Lanka, P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo, on or before 30th july 2017. "open 
competitive Examination for Recruitment 
of Probation Officers for the Department of 
Probation and child care Services - 2017 
September" should be clearly indicated on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. 
 (iii) any application which is not complete in every 
aspect is liable to be rejected. No complaint that 
an application has been lost or delayed in post 
will be considered. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1229
 (iv) the commissioner General of Examinations, 
with the pre-assumption that only the candidates 
who have fulfilled the qualifications specified 
in the Gazette notification have applied, will 
issue admission cards to the applicants who 
are in the specified age group and have sent 
duly filled applications attaching the payment 
receipt of the examination fee paid on or before 
the closing date. a newspaper advertisement 
will be published by the department of 
Examinations as soon as the admission 
cards have been issued. if a candidate has 
not received the admission card even 02 or 
03 days after the date of the advertisement 
published, should inquire without delay from 
the organizations and foreign Examinations 
Branch of the department of Examinations Sri 
Lanka. Name of the examination, full name of 
the applicant, National identity card number 
and address should be mentioned when an 
inquiry is made. if such applicant lives outside 
colombo, it is advisable to send a fax to the 
fax number mentioned in the advertisement 
submitting a letter including above details and a 
fax number of the applicant, in order to receive 
a copy of the admission card immediately as 
possible. keeping a photocopy of the copy of 
the completed application, receipt of paying 
the examination fee and the receipt obtained 
from the registered post will be useful for such 
situations. 
 (v) applicant's signature should be attested 
in both the application and the admission 
card. applicants who apply from any other 
institution should get their signatures attested 
by the respective head of the department or 
any other officer authorized by the Head and 
signatures of the applicants who are not from an 
institution should be attested by a Principal of 
a Government school, Grama Niladhari of the 
division, justice of the Peace, commissioner 
of oaths, attorney-at-Law, Notary Public, 
Commissioned Officer in Armed Forces 
or a permanent staff grade officer holding 
a permanent post in the Public Service or 
Provincial Public Service whose annual 
consolidated salary is Rs. 240,360 or more. 
7. Admission for examination : 
 (i) a  candidate who sits for the examination 
should produce the attested admission card to 
the supervisor in the prescribed examination 
hall on the first day of the examination. Any 
candidate who fails to produce the admission 
card will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination. all candidates should be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and he/she is 
liable to a punishment imposed by him for 
breach of these rules. 
 (ii) a  candidate must sit the examination only at 
the assigned examination hall. a set of rules to 
be observed by all candidates is published in 
the Gazette. 
Note.- issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as an acceptance that 
he or she has fulfilled the required qualifications 
to sit for the examination or has fulfilled the 
required qualifications for the post. 
8. Results of the examination .- Result sheets prepared 
in the order of merit of the total marks obtained for the 
written examination will be submitted to the Secretary of 
the Public Service commission. Results of the examination 
will either be sent to individual applicants by post or be 
released on the web site www.results.exams.gov.lk of the 
department of Examinations. 
9. the examination fee is Rs. 1,000. the receipt obtained 
by paying the above examination fee to the credit of the 
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examinations at any Post office/sub post office of the 
island on or before the closing date should be properly 
affixed in the relevant space provided in the application 
form. Money orders or stamps will not be accepted for the 
examination fees. 
Note.- the examination fees once paid will 
not be fully or partially refunded under any 
circumstances or for reasons such as withdrawing 
the application, declining in sitting for the 
examination or having found disqualified after 
sitting for the examination. 
10. Identity of a Candidate.- the candidate should prove 
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on each 
subject he/she sits for. Either of the following documents 
will be accepted : 
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
11. Furnishing False Information.- if any information 
stated in the application is found to be false or incorrect 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1230
before the appointment, his/her candidature will 
be cancelled. if such information is found after the 
appointment, you are liable to dismissal from service, 
subject to relevant action. 
12. The right to fill or not to fill the vacancies rest with 
the Public Service commission. 
13. decisions will be taken by the Public Service 
commission regarding any matter not mentioned in this 
notice. The final decisions in filling or not filling the 
vacancies or filling part of the vacancies rest with the 
Public Service commission. 
14. if there is any discrepancy among the Sinhala, tamil 
or English texts of this notification, the notice published in 
Sinhala is considered as correct. 
on the order of Public Service commission, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Women and child affairs. 
5th floor, Sethsiripaya Stage ii, 
Battaramulla, 
08th May, 2017.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN 
open CoMpetitive exaMination for reCruitMent to the 
poSt of probation offiCerS of DepartMent of probation 
anD ChilD Care ServiCeS - 2017 SepteMber
    
 (For Office use only)
01. (i) Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
   (eg. : hERath MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  
    kuMaRa GuNaWaRdENa)
 (ii) Last name with initials at the end (in block 
capitals) :––––––––––.
  (eg. : GuNa WaRdENa, h. M. S. k.)
 (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02.  Permanent address (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
       (admission cards will be posted to this address)
       Present residential address :––––––––––.
03. Sex :   0 - Male 1 - female 
    (write the relevant no. in the box)
04.  National identity card No. : 
05.  telephone No. : 
06. (i) date of Birth : 
  y ear Month date
 (ii) age as at the closing date of applications : 
    y ears Months days 
07.  Examination fee : 
 (i) Receipt No. :––––––––––.
 (ii) date :––––––––––.
 (iii) Issuing Office :––––––––––.
 (iv) amount paid :––––––––––.
Firmly affix the payment receipt from one edge 
(keep a photocopy of the receipt)
08. Certification of the Applicant : 
i, do hereby declare that the particulars furnished here 
by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. 
further, i declare that i abide by the rules and regulations 
stipulated by the commissioner of Examinations pertaining 
to conduct the examination. i also agree to be bounded by 
any rules and regulations stipulated by the commissioner 
of Examinations pertaining to conduct the examination and 
i agree to the cancellation of my candidature before, during 
or after the examination if I am proved to be disqualified as 
per the examination related regulations. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
09. Certification of the Head of the Department : 
i, do hereby certify that the details furnished by Mr./
Mrs./Ms.................................... presenting this application, 
are accurate as per his/her service record, he/she is eligible 
to sit for this examination as per the regulations stated 
in the relevant Gazette Notification, he/she has paid the 
relevant examination fees and has attached the receipt and 
he/she shall be released from the present service if selected 
for a post based on the results of this examination. 
Signature of the head of the department :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
title :––––––––––.
Place :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1231
10. certifying of the applicant's Signature : 
i hereby certify that Mr./Miss./Mrs. ............................... 
who submits this application is known to me personally 
and placed his/her signature in front of me and has paid 
the prescribed examination fee and has affixed the payment 
receipt. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attestor. 
date :––––––––––.
full name of the attestor :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Prove with the Official Stamp)
06-25
–––––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICES COmmISSION 
ministry of Women and Child Affairs
LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to aSSiStaNt coMMiSSioNER 
(dEPaRtMENtaL) of thE dEPaRtMENt 
PRoBatioN aNd chiLd caRE SERVicES - 2017 
SEPtEMBER 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka 
who possess following qualifications for the Post of 
assistant commissioner (departmental) of department 
Probation and child care Services. 
1. Method of Recruitment.- the most suitable candidates 
will be recruited by the Public Services commission out of 
the candidates who possess the qualifications prescribed in 
the notification depending on the highest total marks of the 
results of the structured interview and the written test. 
the date on which this appointment comes into 
effect will be determined on order of the Public Services 
commission. 
2. Required qualifications : 
 (i) Educational Qualifications/Professional 
Qualifications : 
 * Probation Officers, Child Rights Promotion 
Officers of the Department of Probation and 
child care Services holding posts in field/
Office Service Segment 2 (MN 05-2006A) with 
an active and satisfactory service period of 05 
years or more in class category 1 who possess 
a degree in a university recognized by the 
university Grants commission are eligible to 
apply for this post. 
 * Should have completed a satisfactory service 
period during the period of last five years. 
 (ii) Physical Fitness.- Every candidate shall be 
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part 
of the island and to perform the duties in the 
post. 
 (iii) Other Qualifications : 
 * Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 * Shall be of an excellent moral character,
 * Shall have satisfied each and every way all the 
qualifications required for recruitment to post 
as at the closing date of application. 
 (iv) Age Limit.- age limit is not applicable since 
this applies for those who are already in the 
Public Service. 
3. Conditions for engagement in service and service 
conditions : 
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contribution to the Widow/Widowers and 
orphans Pension Scheme shall be made. 
 (ii) the appointment shall be subjected to an acting 
period of one year. The officer shall pass the 
First Efficiency Bar Examination mentioned 
in the Procedure of Recruitment within three 
years from the date of recruitment to Grade iii 
of assistant commissioner. 
 (iii) Shall have to acquire relevant proficiency in 
other official language within five years from 
the date of recruitment to the post as per Public 
administration circular No. 07/2007 and 
circulars consequential thereto. 
 (iv) this appointment shall be subjected to 
the procedural rules of the Public Service 
commission, Establishments code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
financial Regulations of the Government and 
other department orders. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1232
4. Salary Scale .– this post is entitled to the monthly 
salary scale Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 - 8x1,630 - 17x2,170 - 
Rs. 110,895. 
(as per the Section 07.1 of the Public administration 
circular 3/2016, the salary structure mentioned in the 
Schedule i shall be made applicable when the Salary Scale 
is mentioned in the letters of appointment issued in the 
recruitments/promotions made up to 01.01.2020. however, 
the payments shall be made as mentioned in Schedule ii).
5. Written examination : 
 (i) Written Examination will be conducted at 
colombo in the month of September, 2017 by 
the commissioner General of Examinations on 
behalf of the Public Services commission. 
 (ii) Examination will be conducted in all the 
Sinhalese, tamil and English Languages. 
 (iii) a  candidate shall face the examination in 
any one of the languages mentioned above.                 
he/She has to face all the subjects only in one 
language of his/her preference. candidates are 
not allowed to change the medium they have 
selected later on. 
 (iv) the written examination consists of question 
papers on the following subjects. 
Subject 
Number
Subject Duration Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
01 Subject 
related studies
1 1/2 
hours
100 40%
02 iQ test 1 hour 100 40%
Syllabus of the written test : 
 (a) Subject related studies  :
  this is a practical question paper with relevance 
to the ordinances which are pertinent to the 
probation sector : Welfare and development of 
children, child Protection, juvenile offenders 
ordinance, children and young Persons 
ordinance, Probation of offenders ordinance, 
orphanages ordinance, adoption of children 
ordinance, Penalty fees ordinance, Vagrants 
ordinance and youthful offenders training 
School ordinance. 
 (b) IQ Test : 
  this is a question paper to test the creative 
thinking ability, problem solving capacity and 
analytical skills of the applicant, this consists 
of 50 questions including McQs and Questions 
expecting short answers and all the questions 
have to be answered. 
6. Structured Interview .– the applicants who have 
scored at least 40% or more marks for each of the papers 
in the written examination shall only be summoned for 
the interview. Nevertheless, the number of applicants 
summoned for the interview shall not be more than five 
times the number of vacancies to be filled. The interview 
carries 100 marks. the minimum score shall not be 
reduced for any reason. the interviews will be conducted 
by an interview board appointed by the Public Services 
commission and the marks will be given in the following 
manner : 
Subject Maximum 
marks
01 Additional educational qualifications 20
02 Professional qualifications obtained 
relevant to the area
25
03 Service experience 40
04 Language competency 10
05 Skill demonstrated at the interview 05
total 100
7. Method of application : 
 (i) the applications should be prepared in an a4 
paper following the specimen application using 
both sides of the a4 paper and shall include 
Head numbers 01 to 07 on the first page and the 
rest on the other pages respectively. it should 
be filled in the applicant's own handwriting. 
Name of the examination in the heading should 
be written additionally in English language 
in the case of Sinhala and tamil medium 
applications. 
  all applications which do not comply with 
the specimen application and all incomplete 
applications will be rejected without any 
notification to the applicant. Keeping a 
photocopy of the application will be useful. 
 (ii) The application should be filled in the language 
in which the applicant is expected to sit for the 
examination. 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1233
 (iii) The duly filled applications should be sent 
through registered post to the commissioner 
General of Examinations, organizations and 
foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka 
department of Examinations, P. o. Box 1503, 
colombo to reach on or before 30.06.2017. the 
applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected. "Limited competitive Examination 
for Recruitment to assistant commissioner 
(departmental) of department Probation and 
child care Services - 2017 august should be 
clearly indicated on the top left - hand corner 
of the envelope enclosing the application. 
 (iv) any application which is not complete in every 
aspect is liable to be rejected. No. complaint 
that an application has been lost or delayed in 
post will be considered. 
 (v) the commissioner General of Examinations, 
with the pre-assumption that only the candidates 
who have fulfilled the qualifications specified 
in the Gazette  notification have applied, will 
issue admission cards to the applicants who 
are in the specified age group and have sent 
duly filled applications attaching the payment 
receipt of the examination fee paid on or before 
the closing date. a newspaper advertisement 
will be published by the department of 
Examinations as soon as the admission 
cards have been issued. if a candidate has 
not received the admission card even 02 or 
03 days after the date of the advertisement 
published, should inquire without delay from 
the organizations and foreign Examinations 
Branch of the department of Examinations Sri 
Lanka, Name of the examination, full name of 
the applicant, National identity card Number 
and address should be mentioned when an 
inquiry is made. if such applicant lives outside 
colombo, it is advisable to send a fax to the 
fax number mentioned in the advertisement 
submitting a letter including above details and a 
fax number of the applicant, in order to receive 
a copy of the admission card immediately as 
possible. keeping a photocopy of the copy of 
the completed application, receipt of paying 
the examination fee and the receipt obtained 
from the registered post will be useful for such 
situations. 
 (vi) The applicant's signature should be certified in 
both the application and the admission card. 
the applicants who are applying from any 
institution shall get their signatures attested 
by the respective head of department or 
any other officer authorized by the Head and 
the signatures of the candidates who are not 
from any institution shall be attested by a 
Principal of a Government School, Grama 
Niladari of the division, justice of the Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-Law, 
Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the 
Armed forces or a permanent staff grade officer 
holding a permanent post in the Public Service 
or Provincial Public Service whose annual 
consolidated salary is Rs. 292,080 or more. 
8. Admissions for examination : 
 (i) a  candidate who sits for the examination 
should produce the attested admission card to 
the supervisor in the prescribed examination 
hall on the first day of the examination. Any 
candidate who fails to produce the admission 
card will not be allowed to sit for the 
examination. all candidates should be bound 
by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the examination and he/she is liable 
to a punishment imposed by him for breach of 
these rules. 
 (ii) a  candidate must sit the examination only at 
the assigned examination hall. a set of rules to 
be observed by all candidates is published in 
the Gazette. 
Note.- issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as an acceptance that he 
or she has fulfilled the required qualifications to 
sit for the examination or has fulfilled the required 
qualifications for the post. 
9. Results of the Examination.- Result sheets prepared 
in the order of merit of the total marks obtained for the 
written examination and the structured interview shall 
be submitted to the Secretary of the Public Services 
commission. Results of all the applicants who sit for the 
examination shall either be individually sent to them or 
published in the web site www.results.exams.gov.lk of the 
Sri Lanka department of Examinations. 
10. the examination fee is Rs. 1,200. the receipt 
obtained by paying the above examination fee to the credit 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1234
of the revenue head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examina tions at any Post office/sub post 
office of the island on or before the closing date should 
be properly affixed in the relevant space provided in the 
application form. Money orders or stamps will not be 
accepted for the examination fees. 
Note.- the examination fees once paid will 
not be fully or partially refunded under any 
circumstances or for reasons such as withdrawing 
the application, declining in sitting for the 
examination or having found disqualified after 
sitting for the examination. 
11. Identity of Candidate.- the candidate should prove 
his/her identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor on each 
subject he/she sits for. Either of the following documents 
will be accepted : 
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons,
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
12. Furnishing False Information.- if any information 
stated in the application is found to be false or incorrect 
before the appointment, his/her candidature will 
be cancelled. if such information is found after the 
appointment, you are liable to dismissal from service, 
subject to relevant action. 
13. The right to fill or not to fill the vacancies rest with 
the Public Service commission. 
14. decisions will be taken by the Public Service 
commission regarding any matter not mentioned in this 
notice. The final decisions in filling or not filling the 
vacancies or filling part of the vacancies rest with the 
Public Service commission. 
15. Sinhala text shall prevail in case of any inconsistency 
among the Sinhala, tamil and English texts. 
on the order of Public Service commission, 
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of Women and child affairs. 
5th floor, 2nd Stage, Sethsiripaya, 
Battaramulla, 
08th May, 2017.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN 
liMiteD CoMpetitive exaMination for reCruitMent to 
aSSiStant CoMMiSSioner (DepartMental) of DepartMent 
of probation anD ChilD Care ServiCeS - 2017 SepteMber
 (For Office use only)
Medium of Examination : 
 Sinhala - 2
 t amil - 3
 English - 4
 (Write the relevant number in the box)
01. (i) Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
  (eg. : hERath MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  
   kuMaRa GuNaWaRdENa)
 (ii) Last name with initials at the end (in block  
  capitals) :––––––––––.
  (eg. : GuNa WaRdENa, h. M. S. k.)
 (iii) Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
02. Present place of employment and address (in block 
capitals) :––––––––––.
       (admission cards will be posted to this address)
03. Sex : 0 - Male 1 - female 
  (write the relevant No. in the box)
04.  National identity card Number : 
05.  telephone Number : 
06. (i) Present service category/Grade and the date of 
appointment :––––––––––.
 (ii) Service period in Grade i :––––––––––.
07. have you earned all the increments during the past 
five years immediately from 30th June 2017 ? If any 
increment has not been earned, give reasons for it :  
––––––––––.
08. has any disciplinary action been taken against you 
during the past five years ? If so, indicate details of 
the nature of the offence and the punitive action taken 
and the date on which such punitive action was taken 
:––––––––––.
09.  Examination fees : 
 (i) Receipt Number :––––––––––.
 (ii) date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1235
 (iii) Issuing Office :––––––––––.
 (iv) amount paid :––––––––––.
Firmly affix the payment receipt from one edge 
(keep a photocopy of the receipt)
10. Certification of the Applicant : 
i, do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me here are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. 
further, i declare that i abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the commissioner of Examinations pertaining 
to conduct the examination. i also agree to bounded by any the rules and regulations stipulated by the commissioner of 
Examinations pertaining to conducting the examination and i agree to the cancellation of my candidature before, during 
or after the examination if I am proveding to be disqualified as per the examination related regulations. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the candidate. 
date :––––––––––.
11. Certification of the supervising officer : 
i, do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Ms............................ submitting this application placed his/her signature in 
front of me and has paid the prescribed examination fees and has attached the receipt.
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
Name :––––––––––.
title :––––––––––.
Place :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
12. Certification of the Head of the Department : 
i, do hereby certify that the details furnished by Mr./Mrs./Ms.................................... presenting this application, 
are accurate as per his/her service record, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per the regulations stated in the 
relevant Gazette Notification, he/she has paid the relevant examination fees and has attached the receipt and he/she shall 
be released from the present service if selected for a post based on the results of this examination. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department.
 (official Stamp)
Name :––––––––––.
title :––––––––––.
Place :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
applicants who send applications after the closing date are not allowed to sit for the examination and changes in the 
medium of examination will not be allowed after the closing date. 
06-24

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1236
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EffECTIvE AS fROm JANuARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
 1.  all Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
 2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the 
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
 3.  The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
 4.  cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
 5.  All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by Money 
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements. 
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
 6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
 7.  All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
 8.  Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
 9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme 
court.
 10.  The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
         Rs. cts.
 one inch or less  ... ... ... 137  0
 Every addition inch or fraction thereof  ... ... ...  137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ...  1,300  0
 t wo columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ...  2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration 
in any week where Public holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in 
Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should 
be addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REvISED SubSCRIPTION RATES EffECTIvE fROm JANuARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage 
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ...                 ...             ...  4,160 0 9,340 0
Section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section iii (Patent & trade Mark Notices etc.) ... ..  405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ...  890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List)              ... ...  1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of jurors and assessors)            ... ... ...  780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
 Price Postage
 Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
Section i             ... ... ... ...  40 0 60 0
Section ii            ... ... ... ...  25 0 60 0
Section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ...  12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government)  23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ...  123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ...  87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications bureau, No. 163, kirulapone mawatha, Polhengoda, 
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'06'02
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.06.2017
1237
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
thE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2017
 JuNE 02.06.2017 friday — 19.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  09.06.2017 friday –– 26.05.2017 friday 12 noon
  16.06.2017 friday –– 02.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  23.06.2017 friday –– 09.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  30.06.2017 friday –– 16.06.2017 friday 12 noon
 JuL y 07.07.2017 friday — 23.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  14.07.2017 friday –– 30.06.2017 friday 12 noon
  21.07.2017 friday –– 07.07.2017 friday 12 noon
  28.07.2017 friday –– 14.07.2017 friday 12 noon
 AuGuST 04.08.2017 friday — 21.07.2017 friday 12 noon
  11.08.2017 friday –– 28.07.2017 friday 12 noon
  18.08.2017 friday –– 04.08.2017 friday 12 noon
  25.08.2017 friday –– 11.08.2017 friday 12 noon
  31.08.2017 thursday –– 18.08.2017 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. (Acting)
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st january, 2017.
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.