

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
313
313
wxl 1"643 - 2010 fmnrjdß 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'02'26
No. 1,643 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 26, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 316
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 317
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 05th March, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 19th
February, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.—  Part II and Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,642 of  19.02.2010 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
314
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
315
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of
Examinations.Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
316
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 26th March, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Dencil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
08th February, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary’s Division applications are called applications should be sent
Puttalam Chilaw Post of Medical Registrar of Births and The District Secretary/Additional
Deaths of Chilaw Town Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Puttalam
do. Kalpitiya Post of Medical Registrar of Births and do.
Deaths of Kalpitiya Division
do. Mundalama Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths of do.
Kandathoduwawa Sinnapadu Division and
Registrar of Marriages (General) of
Puttalam Pattu Division
02–605

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
317
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  LABOUR  RELATIONS  AND  MAN  POWER
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Posts of Career Guidance Officer in the Ministry of
Labour Relations and Man Power - 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from Citizens of Sri Lanka for selection to fill the vacancies in the Posts of Career Guidance Officer  in the
Ministry of Labour Relations and Man Power.
02. Nature of the Post.– Fulfillment of official duties such as guidance on the selection and development of a Career to the un-
employed persons; providing Career Guidance Services; publication of magazines and books, etc. by engagement in research on Car eer
Guidance and collecting information pertaining to same; providing assistance to job seekers to find suitable jobs in accordance  with the
requirements of the Labour Market; and directing to self employment and provision of relevant facilities.
 03. The Competitive Examination will  be conducted by the Commissioner-General of Examinations. The towns and town
numbers where the examination will be held  are indicated in the table below. The town and town number at which the candidate   expects
to appear for the examination should be mentioned in the application according to this table. Candidates are not allowed to cha nge the
town applied for. However, if an adequate number of Candidates do not apply for a particular town, they will be referred to the  nearest
town.
Town Town
Town Number Town Number
Colombo 01 Kurunegala 06
Kandy 02 Anuradhapura 07
Matara 03 Batticaloa 08
Badulla 04 Jaffna 09
Ratnapura 05 V avuniya 10
04. Procedure of Application.– Applications should be prepared in A4 size paper, using both sides, according to the specimen
form given at the end of this Notification. The applications should be prepared with heads 1 - 7 in page one, and 8 to 13 in page two whilst
the balance in page three. The relevant particulars should be filled in your own handwriting. Applicants should ensure that the application
is perfected in accordance with the specimen application given in the Notification and that it will be rejected otherwise. Applications not
prepared in accordance with specimen  form and with incomplete information will be rejected without any prior notice and it is useful to
preserve a photo copy of the application. It is necessary to write the  name of the Examination in English as well as in Sinhala and Tamil
in the Applications.
(i) Officers in Public Service/ Corporations and in Provincial Public Service should forward their applications through their
respective Heads of Departments with a Certificate that the information given in the Applications is true and correct.
(ii) The duly perfected Applications should be sent by registered post to "The Secretary, Ministry of Labour Relations and
Man Power, 2nd floor, Labour Secretariat, Narahenpita, Colombo 05" to reach him on or before 01.04.2010. "Application
for the Recruitment to the Posts of Career Guidance Officer" should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of the
envelope containing the Application. The Application should be complete and accurate in every respect.
(iii) Late applications and applications which are not in conformity with the Gazette Notification will be rejected without notice.
Any complaint regarding the delay of the applications or any correspondence related thereto will not be entertained.
(iv) The closing date of the applications will be 01.04.2010.
05. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,215-10x215-4x240-7x320-15x360-Rs.25,965 (monthly) (P.A.Circular No.06/2006(IV) (First Efficiency
Bar Examination should be passed before the expiry of three years of the recruitment to the Post).
06. Age Limit.– Be not less than 22 years and not more than 45 years (The upper age limit does not apply to those already in
Public Service/ Provincial Public Service).
07. (I) Educational Qualifications :
Applicants should possess a Degree of a recognized University.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
318
(II) Other Qualifications :
I. Knowledge of Computer Technology.
2. Awareness on Career Guidance and  Counseling.
08. Method of Recruitment .– 40% or more marks should be obtained for each Question Paper to pass the Examination.
Candidates who receive the highest marks at the Written Examination will be called up for a structured interview and the select ions will
be made according to the order of the total marks obtained at the interview and at the Examination.
9. Medium of the Examination and the Syllabus .– The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English. Medium
applied for will not be allowed to be changed later. The Examination consists of 3 Question Papers.
Subject No. : 01 -Comprehension- 2 hours -100 marks.
This question paper consists of two parts.
Part I - Writing an essay and a Precis.
Part II - Consists of a number of phrases to test the language proficiency of the candidate. Associating these phrases, candidates
are required to indicate the meaning of the underlined words in one sentence or in the alternate, to indicate the most
appropriate statement out of the alternate groups of sentences given or to indicate the correct answer out of the several
answers given. Equal marks will be given to each part of the Question Paper.
Subject No. : 02 -  General Intelligence -I hour-100 marks.
This is designed to gauge the logical, explanatory and analytical ability of the candidate to arrive at inferences on incidents.
This is a multiple choice Question Paper.
Subject No. : 03 - Case Comprehension (Case Study) 3 hours-100 marks.
Under the identification of one's own abilities through self-assessment and selection of relevant V ocational Training
Opportunities and guidance to enter a vocation and for vocational development :
(i) Understanding the various definitions and primary concepts pertaining to Career Guidance.
(ii) Understanding World of Work.
(iii) Understanding the tendency of the Labour Market.
(iv) Definitions of primary concepts of Management and their practical usage.
(v) Knowledge and skills of a Co-ordinator of Institutions and Persons.
10. Terms of Engagement in Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) Terms and conditions of the Government Establishments Code are applicable.
(iii) The selected Candidates will be subject to a probation period of three years.
(iv) Successful Candidates must subscribe to the condition that they will conform to the provisions of Article IV of the
Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and any other Laws, Regulations or Rules that may be
made from time to time for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
(v) Every Officer is required to pass the prescribed tests before the confirmation in service.
(vi) The selected Candidates should serve in any part of the Island.
11. Examination Fees.– A non-refundable Examination fee of Rs. 300 is charged for this Examination. The Receipt obtained from
any Post Office in the Island on the payment of such amount to the credit of the Secretary to the Ministry of Labour Relations and Man
Power should be pasted to the Application. It will be useful to keep a photo copy of it with you.
12. Certification of the Signature of the Applicant.– The signature of the Applicant in the Application Form should be certified
either by a Principal of a Government School or Commissioner for Oaths or Lawyer or an Officer in the Public Service or Provincial Public
Service whose Consolidated Monthly Salary is Rs. 20,030 or more in terms of P.A Circular 6/2006(IV).
13. At the Examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, the Supervisor of the Centre will accept
only the Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or a valid Passport.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
319
14. A Candidate should not consider that the issue of an Admission Card for the Examination alone as a fulfillment of
qualification for him/her to sit the Examination. He /she must get his /her signature on the Admission Card attested in advance as required
and produce to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre at the commencement of the Examination.
15. Candidates are subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in conducting
this Examination. Candidates are liable for punishment imposed on him/her for breach of these rules.
16. The Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will publish a Notice in the News Papers as soon as the Admission Cards are
issued to the Candidates. If the Admission Card is not received by a Candidate even after 2 or 3 days of the Press Notice, he / she should
inform the Department of Examinations as stated in the Notice. Certified photocopy of the Application, the Receipt issued for t he
payment of fees and the Receipt of Registration should be sent to the Department of Examinations. If you are in an area out of Colombo,
it will be more convenient to inform the Department of Examinations your fax number along with the letter of request, keeping a  copy
with you. The Secretary to the Ministry of Labour Relations and Man Power reserves the right to take the final decision pertaining to any
matter not referred to herein.
MAHINDA M ADIHAHEWA,
Secretary,
2nd Floor, Labour Secretariat, Ministry of Labour Relations and Man Power.
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
C
OMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF CAREER GUIDANCE OFFICERS IN THE MINISTRY OF LABOUR RELATIONS AND MAN POWER - 2010
Medium of  Examination: Town in which Applicant will appear for the
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) Examination: (Please see paragraph 3 of the Notification)
Town No.
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
 English - 4
01. Name with Initials at the end :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(ii) English :–––––––––––.
02. Names denoted by the initials :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(ii) English :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent Address :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(ii) English :–––––––––––.
04. Sex :
Female - 1 (Please indicate the relevant number in cage)
Male  - 2
05. Address :
(i) Grama Niladhari Division and Number :–––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretarial Division :–––––––––––.
(iii) District :–––––––––––.
06. Nationality :
(Write the relevant Number in the cage)
Sinhala - 1 Indian Tamil - 2
Sri Lanka Tamil - 3 Burgher - 4
Muslim - 5 Malay - 6
Others - 7
07. National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
320
08. Citizenship:  (Please write in the relevant cage)
By Birth: By Registration :
09. (i) Date of Birth:
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age on .............. 2009 :
Years : Months : Days :
10. Educational Qualifications :
(I) G.C.E.  (O'Level):
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt
Y ear ........................ ........................
Index Number ........................ ........................
Subject Grade
(i) ............ ............... ..............................
(ii)  ........................... ..............................
(iii)  ........................... ..............................
(iv)  ........................... ..............................
(v) ........................... ..............................
(vi) ........................... ..............................
(vii) ........................... ..............................
(viii) ........................... ..............................
(II) G.C.E (Advanced Level):
(I) Year :–––––––––.
(II) Index Number :––––––––––.
Subject Grade
(i) ........................... ..............................
(ii)  ........................... ..............................
(iii)  ........................... ..............................
(iv)  ........................... ..............................
Degree :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––.
University :––––––––––.
11. Other Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.
12. Other Qualifications :––––––––––.
13. Have you ever been convicted for an offence by a Court of Law? If "yes" give details :
Yes : No:
14. Certificate of the Applicant :
(a) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this Application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge
and I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified. I
personally bear the consequences thereto.
(b) I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false after the appointment, I am liable to dismissal from
the post. I personally bear the consequences thereto.
(c) Money Order No. ................ Receipt obtained after payment of Rs. 300 is attached hereto.
I agree to abide by the above conditions.
–––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––. Signature of the Applicant.
15. Employer’s declaration :
Application of Mr./Mrs./Ms. ..................... who is working in this office is attached hereto duly certified. No disciplinary proceedings
against him/her have been reported. His/her work, conduct and attendance are satisfactory. In case he is selected to the said p ost on
the results of the above Examination, he could/could not be released from this Establishment.
––––––––––––,
Designation :–––––––––. Signature of Head of Department.
Official Frank :–––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
321
16. Certifying the signature of applicant:
The applicant Mr./Mrs/Ms. ................................ is known to me very well. I certify that he/she placed his/her signa ture in my
presence and that he/she has attached to this application the receipt of the prescribed payment made.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Officer Certifying.
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of Certifying Officer :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Please use the official frank)
02-582
DEPARTMENT  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH
Sri Lanka School of Animal Husbandry
TWO YEAR DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
APPLICATIONS are being called for the admission of students to follow the Diploma course in Animal Husbandry conducted by the Sri
Lanka school of Animal Husbandry Kundasale of this Department.
Particulars of the Diploma Course  :
1.1 The course will be conducted in Sinhala/Tamil and English medium.
1.2 The Diploma course is purely a vocational training course and it is intended for those who wish to engage in a self
employment or to obtain a suitable employment in the industry . This department is not bound to provide employment
to those who complete this course.
1.3 Lodging will be provided for the students during the period of training but students should supply their own food.
1.4 Classes may be held on Saturdays and Sundays and students will be allowed to leave their hostel in one weekend of the
month.
02. Mode of' Selection - Selections of students will be done by a written examination and interview by this Department. The
written examination will comprise two papers and each will be of 01 hour duration on the following.
(i) Animal husbandry :
Multiple choice and short questions prepared according to the Livestock section of the syllabus of Agriculture for
(G .C.E.(O/L)
(ii) General Knowledge :
The medium of the examination should be the medium in which the applicant has selected to follow the course. If the
applicant wishes to follow the course in English medium he/she has to sit for an English paper in addition to the above
papers.
3. Qualifications :
3.1 Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
3.2 They should not be less than 17 years and not more than 25 years as at 31.03.20l0
(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
3.3 Should have the following minimum educational qualifications.
should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary level) in not more than two sittings with six subjects
including 04 credit passes in language or Literature, Maths, Science and one subject ; and
should have passed the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) in three subjects in one sitting Physics,
Chemistry, Biology (Botany, Zoology) and Agricultural science. General English will not be considered as a subject.
3.3.3. If the applicant wishes to follow the course in English medium, should have obtained a credit pass for English at
the G .C.E (ordinary Level) Examinations and Pass the General English subject at the G .C.E.(Advanced Level)
Examination.
The copies of the educational certificates should be attached to the applications. The applications which do not
comply with this requirement will be rejected. The originals of the certificates should be submitted at the
interviews.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
322
04. If any information's information herein provided by an applicant is found to be untrue or incorrect his/her studentship wil l
be terminated forthwith and he/she is liable to pay the expenses incurred by the Department on account of his/her training to the Director
General, department of Animal Production and Health. Director General, Animal Production and Health reserves the right to deter mine
the expenses.
Applications prepared in accordance with the specimen given below should be forwarded under registered cover to teach the
"Director "(Human Resource Development)Department of Animal Production and Health P .O. Box. 13, Peradeniya on or before 31.03.2010.
Candidates should forward a money order with the application to the value of Rs 150/- on favor of Director General Animal Produ ction
and Health to withdraw from the Post Office Peradeniya. The wards "Admission for the Diploma in Animal Husbandry" should be
written clearly on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
The applications which do not fulfill the required qualification stated in this notification will be rejected without an information
and the examination fee will not be refunded.
H.M.S.P. H
ERATH,
Director General Animal Production and Health.
APPLICATION
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND HEALTH
TWO YEAR DIPLOMA IN ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
Language medium in which the applicant wishes to sit :
01. Name in full :–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
03. N.I.C. No. :–––––––––––.
04. Address :–––––––––––.
05. D.S. Division :––––––––––.  District :–––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :–––––––––, Month :–––––––––, Date :–––––––––.
07. Age as at 01.03.2010 :
Years :–––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
09. (I) G.C.E.(O/L) :
Subject Grade Year Index No.
Ordinary/Credit /Distinctions
l.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(iii) G.C.E. (A/L) :
Subject Grade Year Index No.
Ordinary/Credit /Distinctions
1.
2.
3.
4.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
323
The copies of the educational certificates should be attached. The applications without the educational certificates will be re jected.
10. Office to which the fee was paid :––––––––––.
and the receipt No: :–––––––––––.
(Please attach the money order to the application enabling to detach it when necessary)
11. Last School/Institution attended :–––––––––––.
12. Date of leaving :–––––––––––.
13. Experience in Animal husbandry, gives the particular: (Copies of the certificates should be attached) :–––––––––––.
14. Experience in the Rural Development/Agriculture/Social Service/Sports: (Copies of the certificates should be attached) :–––– –––.
15. Names and addresses of two referees :
01. .................................. 02. ...................................
.................................. ...................................
.................................. ..................................
I do here by certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and correct according to my knowledge. I am also aware that
if any particulars contained herein are found to the false or incorrect after the selection my studentship will be terminated a nd I am
liable to pay any expenses incurred on account of my training.
––––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––––. Signature of the Applicant.
Note :
Copies of the certificates/documents attached herewith.
1.
2.
3.
4.
02-500
EXAMINATION FOR PROMOTION OF THE OFFICERS IN CLASS 1 OF SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE TO SPECIAL CLASS - YEAR 2010
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved Service Minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the examination for
promotion of officers in Class 1 of Sri Lanka Technological Service to special class will be held by the Commissioner General o f
Examinations, in Colombo, on in the month of May 2010.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the
rules and regulations prescribed by him in respect of the examination.
(ii) The candidates will be subjected to the punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations, if such
rules are violated by them. Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at the beginning of this Gazette
notification.
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are
required to prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and officers in the public service should forward t heir
applications through the respective head of department and officers in the provincial public service should forward their appli cations
through the secretary of PSC in the provincial council where they serve, by registered post to reach the Commissioner General o f
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations, Pellawatta, Battaramulla on or before 26th
March 2010. The top left corner of the envelop containing the application should bear clearly the title of the examination. App lications
received after the closing date of applications will be rejected.
04. Identity Cards.– Candidates should prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each
subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be surrendered to the supervisor of the examination hall.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons
(b) a valid passport
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any of the above documents is liable to cancellation on the
discretion of Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
324
05.Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size. No. 01 to 05 should appear on the first page. Applications
could be typed but they should be completed correctly and legibly by the candidate in his/her own handwriting and in
the language medium in which the candidate sit this examination.
When preparing the application, the title of the examination should be written in English in addition to Sinhala on
Sinhala applications and Tamil on Tamil applications.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and have not been duly perfected shall be rejected without notice.
Therefore, the candidates themselves should make sure that the perfected applications are in conformity with the
specimen form. It is advisable to keep a photo copy of the application form with the candidate.
(ii) Candidates are not allowed to change the language medium selected by them in their applications. If applications are
received in all three language mediums, i.e. Sinhala, Tamil and English, the examination will be held in those three
language mediums. However, candidates should answer all the question papers in one and the same language selected
by them.
(iii) Candidates who appear for this examination for the first time are not required to pay any examination fee, but they are
required to affix stamps to the value of Rs.200 and cancel them properly by placing their signature and date when
applying for subsequent sittings. This fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
It will not be allowed to transfer such fee for any other examination.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting for the examination must get his signature on the admission card att ested in
advance and produce the supervisor of the examination center. It will not be allowed to sit the examination without such admission card.
As soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates, Department of Examinations will publish a paper notice announcing
it. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such notice, it should be informed the Commissioner General  of
Examinations, Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Dept. of Examinations, Pellawatta, Battaramulla furnishing the following
information without delay. (Telegrams-Examinations, Colombo).
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Full postal address ;
(iv) Date of posting the application, registered number and post office.
It would be useful to have the following documents in hand at the time of calling Department of Examinations, i.e. a certified
photocopy of the original application form, receipt of registration and in case of applications outside Colombo, the letter of request with
the fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in Para (06) above
will not be considered.
08. Issue of the results of the examination. – In accordance with the particulars indicated in Para 3 above, the results of the
candidates belonging to provincial public service will be issued to the Secretary of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission
and the results of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued to the secretary of the respective ministry.
09. Scheme of Examination :
(i) Examination for promotion of officers in Class 1 to Special Class will consist of 2 question papers.
Aptitude - Subject Number (1) duration 1 1/2 hours - 100 Marks
Management - Subject Number (2) duration 2 1/2 hours - 100 Marks
Candidates will be required to obtain a minimum of 40 percent of the marks assigned to each of the subjects to pass the
examination.
Syllabus of the first question paper will be as follows :
Aptitude - Subject No. (1)
The paper will be designed in such a way that the applicant’s power of critical reasoning, analytical skills and ability of
decision making is measured.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
325
Syllabus of the second question paper will be as follows :
Management - Subject No. (2)
(i) Principles of Management
(ii) Management functions –
Planning decision making
The process of decision making organization
Staffing
Monitoring
The process of motivation leadership administration
The process of administration policies
(iii) Participatory Management
(iv) Management Environment
(v) Case Study
10. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs will be the final in respect of any matter
not provided for in this notification.
11. In case in case of an inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil, and English texts, The Sinhala text shall prevail.
D. D
ISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
09th February, 2010.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EXAMINA TION FOR PROMOTION OF THE OFFICERS IN CLASS I OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE
TO SPECIAL CLASS - YEAR 2010
01. ( a) Name with initials at the end :––––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters) Eg. SILV A, A.B.
(b)  Name in full :––––––––––––.
(in English block capital letters )
(c) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
( in Sinhala/Tamil )
(d) Official address (Admissions will be posted to this address) :––––––––––––. (In English)
:––––––––––––. (in Sinhala)
(e) Medium in which you sit for the examination :
(Sinhala - 2 /Tamil - 3/English - 4 ) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(f) Sex :
(Male - 0 /Female - I) (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(g) National Identity Card No. :
02. (i) Whether you belong to the provincial public service or public service :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Public Service-l /Western -2/Southern-3 /Central-4/North Western-5/Sabaragamuwa-6 /Uva-7/North Central-8 /Northern-
9/ Eastern -l0)
03. Department which you belong to :––––––––––––.
04. (i) Designation  :––––––––––––
05. (i) Date of Birth:
Year :  Month  : Date :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
326
(ii) Age as at 01.01.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
Affix stamps to the value of Rs.200 and cancel them by placing the signature of the candidate and the date,
if not sitting the exam for the first time.
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Furthermore, I hereby agree to be abided by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on the conduct of examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to sign
on his behalf or Head of the Regional Office.
Attestation of Candidate’s Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ------------------------------------------------------is presently employed in my office an d is
personally to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on ------------- 2010.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1-5 above are correct that this candidate is eligible to sit for the
examination, that he/she is eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above that the stamps have been affixed
to the value corresponding to examination fee and the signature and date has been placed.
––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of Head of Department.
Date :–––––––––.
02-604
INSTITUTE  OF  TECHNOLOGY  UNIVERSITY  OF
MORATUWA
Admission to the National Diploma in Technology
Course, 2010/2011
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for admission
to the National Diploma in Technology, 3-year fulltime Course
conducted by the Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa.
The Course will be conducted within the University premises at
Moratuwa until it is moved to a new premises of the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa at Diyagama, Homagama.
General.– The National Diploma in Technology Course consists
of two years of academic study and one year of Industrial Training
and is conducted in English medium. The course is offered in the
following fields of study :
(a) Maritime Studies Courses (Set I)  :
(i) Marine Engineering Technology
(ii) Nautical Studies and Technology
(b) Other Fields of Courses (Set II) :
(i) Chemical Engineering Technology
(ii) Civil Engineering Technology
(iii) Electrical Engineering Technology
(iv) Electronics and T elecommunication Engineering
Technology
(v) Mechanical Engineering Technology
(vi) Polymer Technology
(vii) Textile and Clothing Technology.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
327
Eligibility :
2.1 Age :
(a) Applicants should be below 24 years of age on
31.12.2009.
(b) Applicants below 20 years of age on 31.12.2009 will
be given preference for admission to the Marine
Engineering Technology and Nautical Studies and
Technology Courses. A special medical test and
interview would also be conducted for selection of
students to Marine Engineering and Nautical Studies
Courses.
(c) Those who are fulltime registered students of any
University under the UGC (except the Open University
of Sri Lanka) or Higher Educational Institute under the
Ministry of Higher Education are not eligible to apply.
2.2 Educational Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained passes in any three (03) of the
following subjects :
(i) Physics
(ii) Chemistry
(iii) Combined Mathematics
(iv) Advanced Mathematics
at one and the same sitting of a G . C. E. (A/L) Examination conducted
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, Sri Lanka in 2007
or 2008 or 2009.
3. Selection Criteria :
3.1 Admission to the Course :
The selection of students for admission will be based on
the performance at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and the
aptitude test to be conducted by the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
From those who pass the aptitude test, selections will be
done in the merit order of G .C.E. (A/L) results, i.e., in the
order of z-scores. In the selection, 40% merit and 60%
district quota will be applied.
3.2 Field of Study :
Aptitude test marks together with the applicant's order
of preference for the field of study as indicated in the
field preference will be considered in the allocation of the
field of study.
Application Procedure :
4.1 Application Form :
(i) Application should be made according to the
Specimen Form given in this Gazette Notification.
Specimen application will also be available in the
following Web address :
http://www.mrt.ac.lk/itum
(ii) Applications should be forwarded under
Registered Post  marked "NDT Admission
2010/2011"  on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and addressed to the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa,
Katubedda, Moratuwa.
(iii) Application should reach the Deputy Registrar,
Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa
on or before the closing date for applications.
(iv) A self-addressed 9" x 4" stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth), should be enclosed along with the
application form.
(v) No copies or originals of the certificates should be
sent along with the application form. However,
the content of the application has to be certified as
indicated. (See cages 3, 4 and 5 in the form of
application.)
4.2 Field Preference :
(i) There are two SETS of fields.
(ii) Applicants may apply to either Maritime Studies
(SET 1) or Other Fields (SET 2) or Both sets of
fields. The perference must be indicated if candidate
applies to both sets of fields.
(iii) SET 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First
preference and 2 for Second preference. This should
be completed only by the candidates who are
applying for Maritime Studies.
(iv) SET 2 - Insert order of preference as 1,2,3,4,5,6,7.
"1" for the "most preferred", "2" for the next, and
so on. "7" for the least preferred.
5. (i) Application Fee.–  Application fee for SET 1 or SET 2
is Rs. 300 and SET 1 and SET 2 is Rs. 500. A receipt of
payment in favour of "Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, A/C No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon,
Katubedda Branch" to the value of Rs. 300 (Rupees
Three Hundred) for one set of fields of study (Rs. 500 if
applying for both sets of fields), obtained only from any
branch of the Bank of Ceylon should accompany each
application. This application fee is non-refundable.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
328
(ii) Closing Date.–  The closing date of applications is
31.03.2010.
6. Aptitude Test.– Applicants, short-listed according to the
G. C. E. (A.L) performance in Merit and District Quota will be
called for an aptitude test that will be conducted at the Institute of
Technology, University of Moratuwa.
7. Registration :
(i) Candidates selected for admission will be required to
produce the originals of the following certificates on the
date of registration :–
* G.C.E. (A/L) Certificate,
* Certificate indicating G. C. E. (A./L.) Z-Score,
* School Leaving Certificate,
* Birth Certificate,
* Affidavit in support of any changes in name
appearing in different documents/certificates.
8. Very Important :
(i) A candidate once registered for the National Diploma in
Technology Course will not be eligible for admission to
any other course in this University or in any other
University in Sri Lanka (except Open University of Sri
Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute under
the Ministry of Higher Education during the tenure of the
course.
(ii) A student who has already registered in this university or
any other university in Sri Lanka (except Open University
of Sri Lanka) or in any other Higher Educational Institute
is not be eligible for applying.
Director.
Institute of Technology,
University of Moratuwa.
12th of February 2010.
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO THE NATIONAL
DIPLOMA IN TECHNOLOGY COURSE
I
NSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF MORATUWA  – ACADEMIC
YEAR 2010/2011
For office use only
Application No.
District
Application for (Please   9  )
(i) Maritime Fields - SET 1
(ii) Other Fields - SET 2
[Applicants may apply for single set (Set 1 or Set 2) or
both sets (Set 01 and Set 02)]
01. Personal Details : (Please use BLOCK CAPITALS)
Name in Full :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Name with Initials :
(Leave one blank cage between names)
Title Mr./Ms. S e x Male/Female
Age (Years)       (Months) Date of Birth
Date Month Year
As at 31st
Dec. 2009
National ID
Number
02. Contact Details :
Address (Residence):
(Leave one blank cage between different segments of the
address)
Telephone
Mobile
E-mail (if available)
03. Results of G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Subjects & Details of Grades & Details
Examination obtained at the
1st Attempt 2nd Attempt 3rd Attempt
Year
Physics
Chemistry
Combined Mathematics
Advanced Mathematics
Index Number
Z-Score . .               .
Medium Sinhala/Tamil/English
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
Results of the year to be considered for Selection
(indicate whether) 2007 or 2008 or 2009

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'02'26
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 26.02.2010
329
04. School(s) attended from Year 11 to Year 13
Y ear Name & District Period of
Address of Attendance
 School From To
Year M D Year M D
11
12
13
1st Attempt
2nd Attempt
3rd Attempt
05. Certification of Results and Schools attended :
It is compulsory to certify the Results under No. 03 and
Details under No. 04 in the application by the School
Principal for the School Candidates, and by a Justice
of Peace for External Candidates.
I certify that the particulars given above by the candidate in
the cage No.3 and 4 are true and accurate according to the
Original Certificates.
Name of the Principal/Justice of the Peace :
Rev./Dr./Mr./Mrs. ................................................................  
 Official Seal
....................... .....................
Signature Date
06. Field Preference :
Set 1 - Insert order of preference as 1 for First preference
and 2 for Second preference. This should be completed
only by the candidates who have applied for Maritime
Studies.
Set 2 - Insert order of preference as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. ‘1’ for
the “Most Preferred”, ‘2’ for the next and so on. ‘7’ for
the last preferred.
Set 1 Set 2
Maritime Fields Order Other Fields Order
Marine Engineering Chemical Engineering
Technology Technology
Nautical Studies and Civil Engineering
Technology Technology
Electrical Engineering
Technology
State Priority, if applied for Electronic and Telecom-
both sets – 9 unication Engineering
Technology
SET 1 Mechanical Engineering
Technology
SET 2 Polymer Technology
Textile & Clothing
Technology
Are you registered as a fulltime student
in any other University under the UGC
(other than Open University) or any
other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education ?
(Delete whatever is inapplicable)
APPLICANT'S  DECLARATION :
(1) I declare that I am not a fulltime registered student at any
University (except Open University of Sri Lanka) or any
Higher Educational Institution under the Ministry of
Education.
(2) I certify that all the particulars given by me in this
Application are true and accurate. I am aware that if the
particulars given by me in this Application are found to
be false or inaccurate prior to my admission, I will be
discontinued from the course.
(3) In the event of my being selected for admission after the
Test, I shall abide by the Statutes, By-Laws, Regulations
and the Rules of the Institute of Technology, University
of Moratuwa, in so far as they are applicable to me.
(4) I have pasted the cash deposit/ cash transfer receipt
obtained from Bank of Ceylon, drawn in favour of
“Institute of Technology, University of Moratuwa -
Account No. 0000308280 of Bank of Ceylon, Katubedde
Branch”.
(5) I also enclose a self addressed stamped envelope
(Rs. 40 worth) in size 9" x 4".
(6) I am aware that if I am found to be registered in another
University or any other Higher Educational Institution
under the Ministry of Education at the time of sitting for
the Aptitude Test for the National Diploma in Technology
Course, I will not be selected for the Course.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
Paste your Cash Deposit/Cash Transfer Original Slip here.
02-728
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Yes N o