

<!-- page 1 -->

INFORMATION  AND  COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY  ACT,  No. 2 7  OF  2003
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price : Rs.  8.25                                                                                                                Postage  : Rs.    4.50
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of  September 12, 2003
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
——————————
——————————
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
[Certified on  09th September, 2003]
——————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Information and Communication
Technology  Act , No. 27 of 2003
2—H 018088—5,650 (05/2003)
[Certified on 09th September, 2003]
L.D.—O. 7/2003.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  NATIONAL
C OMMITTEE  ON  INFORMATION  AND  C OMMUNICA TION
TECHNOLOGY  OF  SRI LANKA  ; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  SETTING
OUT  OF  A  N ATIONAL  P OLICY  ON  INFORMATION  AND
C OMMUNICATION  TECHNOLOGY  AND  FOR  THE  PREPARA TION  OF
AN  ACTION  PLAN  ; TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  APPOINTMENT  OF  A  TASK
FORCE  FOR  INFORMA TION  AND  COMMUNICA TION  TECHNOLOGY  ;
TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  INFORMA TION  AND
C OMMUNICA TION  TECHNOLOGY  AGENCY  OF  SRI LANKA  CHARGED
WITH  THE  IMPLEMENTA TION  OF  THE  NATIONAL  POLICY  IN BOTH
THE  PUBLIC  AND  PRIV ATE SECTORS  ; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MA TTERS
CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Information and
Communication Technology Act, No. 27  of 2003 and shall
come into operation on such date as the Minister   is in charge
of the subject of Information Technology may appoint, by
Order published in the Gazette.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall be in operation for a
period of five years from the date on which such Act shall
have come into operation.
PART I
N
A TIONAL  POLICY  AND  ACTION  PLAN  ON  INFORMATION  AND
C OMMUNICA TION  TECHNOLOGY
2. The Cabinet of Ministers shall from time to time, having
regard to the interests of the industry, approve the National
Policy Framework in relation to Information and
Communication Technology.
National Policy on
Information and
Communication
Technology to be
approved by the
Cabinet of
Ministers.
Short title and
date of operation
and duration of
Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Information and Communication
Technology  Act, No. 27 of 2003
3. (1) In order to ensure the proper implementation of
the Information  and communication Technology Policy
formulated under section 2, within Sri Lanka, the Cabinet of
Ministers shall appoint a Task Force on Information and
Communication Technology (hereinafter referred to as the
“Task Force”) consisting of not more than twenty members.
One of the members so appointed shall be appointed as the
Chairman of the Task Force.
(2) The members of the Task Force shall be chosen from
among persons who have expertise in the fields of information
and communication technology, telecommunications, law,
business and finance.
4. The functions of the Task Force shall be—
(a) to prepare an action plan in accordance with the
National Policy on Information and Communication
Technology ;
(b) to co-ordinate the implementation of the National
Policy on Information and Communication
Technology and the action plan in both the government
sector and the private sector and facilitate the
implementation of the same ;
(c) to supervise the implementation of the National Policy
on Information  and Communication Technology and
the action plan and where necessary issue directions
from time to time to the implementing agencies ;
(d) to draw up plans identifying the manner in which
Information and Communication Technology can be
made popular within Sri Lanka ;
(e) to identify, develop and cause to be adopted standards
of international renown for human resources
development, products, services, markets and
transactions in their application to the field of
Information and Communication Technology ; and
(f) recommend where necessary the making of
regulations to give effect to the provisions of the Act.
Appointment of
Task Force on
Information and
Communication
Technology
.
Functions of the
Task Force.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Information and Communication
Technology  Act , No. 27 of 2003
National
Committee on
Information and
Communication
Technology.
PART II
N ATIONAL  COMMITTEE  ON  INFORMA TION   AND  COMMUNICATION
TECHNOLOGY
5. (1) There shall be a National Committee on
Information and Communication Technology (hereinafter
referred to as “the Committee”).
(2) The Committee shall consist of—
(a) the Minister, who shall preside at all meetings of the
Committee ;
(b) The Minister in charge of the subject of
Telecommunications ;
(c) the Minister in charge of the subject of Education ;
(d) the Minister in charge of the subject of Higher
Education ;
(e) the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration ;
(f) such number of members in respect of each category
of stakeholders, as is determined by the Cabinet of
Ministers taking into consideration the needs of the
Information and Communication Technology
industry. Such members shall be appointed by the
respective Ministers.
(3) The Committee shall be charged with the task of
discussing policies, preparation of programmes and plans for
Information and Communication Technology and for periodic
review of its implementation.
(4) The Committee shall meet at least once in every four
months.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Information and Communication
Technology  Act, No. 27 of 2003
(5) The procedure to be followed at the meetings of the
Council shall be as prescribed.
(6) The Committee shall issue guidelines and directions
as are necessary for implementation of the National Policy
on Information and Communication Technology and the
action plan, to the Task Force.
PART III
G ENERAL
ESTABLISHMENT  OF  THE  INFORMA TION  AND  COMMUNICA TION
TECHNOLOGY  AGENCY  OF  SRI LANKA
6. (1) The Information and Communication Technology
Agency of Sri Lanka (registered under the Companies Act,
No. 17 of 1982) shall be the Executive Agency to assist the
Task Force and the Committee.
(2) In addition to the powers and functions of the
Agency as set out in the Memorandum and Articles of
Association, the Agency shall have the following powers and
functions :—
(a) to provide all information necessary for the
formulation of the National Policy on Information and
Communication Technology and assist the Cabinet of
Ministers and the Committee ;
(b) to submit proposals to be included in the National
Policy and action plan ;
(c) to take all such steps as are necessary to facilitate the
implementation of the National Policy and the action
plans as are formulated, and to periodically monitor
and review the same ;
The information
and
Communication
Technology
Agency of Sri
Lanka to assist
Task Force and
Committee.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Information and Communication
Technology  Act , No. 27 of 2003
Minister to issue
directions.
(d) to prepare the strategy and programmes which needs
to be implemented in both the government and the
private sectors in keeping with the National Policy on
Information and Communication Technology and the
action plan ;
(e) to provide all information necessary for the formation
of the National Policy on Information Technology ;
(f) to recommend to the Task Force, matters which need
to be taken into consideration in the preparation of
the action plan ;
(g) to submit proposals in respect of matters which
needs to be included in the National Policy and action
plan ; and
(h) to prepare the strategies and programmes which need
to be implemented in both the government sector and
the private sector in keeping with the National Policy
on Information and Communication Technology and
the action plan.
7. (1) The Minister may from time to time issue to the
Agency and other respective government agencies such
directions and guidelines on matters of National Policy on
Information and Communication Technology and the action
plan as have been approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
(2) The Minister may from time to time issue to the Task
Force such directions and guidelines relating to the manner,
mode and extent of implementation, in so far as it is relevant
to the implementation of the National Policy on Information
and Communication Technology and the action plan, within
both the public and the private sectors.
(3) It shall be the duty of the Task Force, the Agency and
the relevant Ministries, government departments, statutory
bodies, institutions other the agencies of the public and private
sector to comply with such directions and guidelines.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Information and Communication
Technology  Act, No. 27 of 2003
8. (1) The Agency shall with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, be exempt from
the payment of any tax on the income or profits of the Agency
to such extent as is permitted in terms of the Inland Revenue
Act, No. 38 of 2000.
(2) The Minister with the concurrence of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance may exempt the Agency from
the payment of any customs or excise duty on any goods
donated to the Agency or imported or purchased out of its
funds by the Agency, if the donation or import or purchase of
any such goods is considered to be conducive for the
advancement of the objects of the Agency.
(3) Any person making a payment to the agency of services
rendered or as a contribution to the general support of the
Agency, may claim the amount of such payment as a deduction
from income in the year in which such payment is actually
made for the purpose of computing liability for income tax.
9. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of giving effect to the principles and provisions of
this Act and in respect of any matter which is required or
authorized by this Act to be prescribed.
(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), regulations
may be made in respect of all or any of the following
matters :—
(a) Codes of Conduct for the different sectors in so far as
they are necessary, within the framework of the
National Policy on Information and Communication
Technology, for the purpose of the implemention of
such policy ;
(b) the form and content of any action plan to be
formulated in terms of the National Policy ;
Agency to be
exempt from
payment   of tax .
Regulations.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Information and Communication
Technology  Act , No. 27 of 2003
(c) the standards of international renown for human
resources development, products, services, markets
and transactions in their application to the field of
Information and Communication Technology ; and
(d) the functions of the Committee.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(4) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall  as
soon as convenient be placed before Parliament for its
approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be disapproved with effect from the date of
disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously done
thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date of disapproval of any regulation
shall be published in the Gazette.
10. (1) Part III of the Science and Technology
Development Act, No. 11 of 1994, which provided for the
establishment of the Council for Information Technology
(CINTEC), is hereby repealed.
(2) All property movable and immovable which is owned
by the Council for Information Technology (CINTEC) and
all assets and liabilities of such Council   shall with effect
from the date of the coming into operation of this Act, be
transferred to the Information and Communication
Technology  Agency of Sri Lanka which is the Executive
Agency, in terms of section 6 of the Act.
(3) Notwithstanding such repeal, the Council for
Information Technology (CINTEC ) may carry out and
conclude all matters being carried out in relation to the
functions of the Council as set out in section 14 of the Science
and Technology Development Act, No. 11 of 1994, until such
matters are completed.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Repeal.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Information and Communication
Technology  Act, No. 27 of 2003
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.