

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2023$44 - 2017 cqks ui 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017.06.15
No. 2023/44 - THURSDAY ,  JUNE  15, 2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL  
Government  Notiﬁ cations
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
THE NATIONAL POLICY ON  HEALTH  INFORMATION OF  SRI  LANKA  
THE Cabinet approval for the National Policy on Health Information of Sri Lanka was granted and will be effective 
from the 3rd of January, 2017. This policy and strategic plan shall satisfy the need for a Health Information System 
which shall assist in the decision making process to achieve an ef ﬁ cient and trustworthy healthcare service in Sri 
Lanka. The intended proposals of this policy and strategic plan shall support to achieve the objectives set out in 
the National Health Policy and facilitate the provision of information to relevant sectors of the Health Information 
System in an ef ﬁ cient and trustworthy manner, through its implementation.
 B. G. S. G
UNATHILAKE,
 Acting Secretary,
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, 
No. 35, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
15th June 2017.
Preamble
The National Policy on Health Information implemented in compliance with all valid laws of Sri Lanka, 
shall facilitate the health information management and development of institutions providing healthcare facilities 
and shall contribute to overall health promotion, parallel to health goals, through the monitoring of activities of 
institutions responsible for health information generation, supply, analysis and use and by providing guidance, 
identifying gaps in the information systems and facilitating corrective measures.
NATIONAL POLICY ON HEALTH INFORMATION OF SRI LANKA - 2017
Ministry of Health
Sri Lanka
The Cabinet approval for the National Policy on Health Information of Sri Lanka was granted on 3rd of 
January 2017.
1A  PG  3569 —  508  (06/2017)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
2A
THE NATIONAL POLICY ON HEALTH INFORMATION
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 
Background
Health information constitutes all data or information that are generated, captured, transmitted, stored, processed,                              
analyzed and disseminated in either on paper or on electronic format, pertaining to health or healthcare service. Thus, the 
term encompasses data and information related to preventive health services, curative health services, health administration 
and research. Healthcare is an information intensive service where it is utilized for care related decisions spanning from 
diagnosis, treatment and outcome assessment to administrative decisions, planning and monitoring. Therefore, a ubiquitous 
system that provides comprehensive, accurate, reliable, relevant, accessible, timely and cost effective health information is 
paramount for evidence-based decisions. Moreover, the ever increasing demand for healthcare, the demand for equitable 
distribution of care and the increasing demand for higher quality of care has made the Health Information System (HIS)                
one of the “building blocks” of any health system. 
The government of Sri Lanka is committed to provide universal access to essential health care that would bene ﬁ t its peo-
ple through preventive and curative state healthcare services. Though most care services are allopathic, there is also a                           
contribution from indigenous forms of medicine.Further, private healthcare organizations, predominantly curative, have also 
been increasingly involved in the provision of healthcare.
The national HIS of Sri Lanka is a very comprehensive, component-based information system that has gradually developed 
for about a century. It is an integral and integrated component of the health service delivery framework.This has immensely 
contributed to making the Sri Lankan healthcare system on par with the best in the world. 
The national HIS mainly consists of the information inputs obtained from the state health service.The present sub-systems 
of the national HIS include curative/hospital information systems, preventive health information systems, population census, 
civil and vital registration system and routine population based health surveys. These sub-systems capture data relating to 
mortality and morbidity, disease outbreaks, social determinants of health (such as nutrition, environment, and oral heath), 
population growth, births, marriages, healthcare access, healthcare coverage, human resources for health, quality of services, 
health ﬁ nancing and other health related data. 
The state HIS is predominantly paper based and manual from point of data capture, at point of service, to data transfer to 
the regional and central levels. Data is analyzed at regional and national levels using computer based analytical tools and 
manual methods. 
Health information is disseminated mainly through national, regional, institutional and program speci ﬁ c publications. The 
main national publication is the Annual Health Bulletin of Sri Lanka. Most of the publications are paper based. Presently, 
limited amount of health information is made available through the ofﬁ cial website of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
Indigenous Medicine and websites of respective health institutions.
Whereas, the larger private healthcare institutions have institutional HISs, the majority of the medium and small scale                     
operations are observed to lack neither the interest nor the capacity to maintain health records. Therefore, the majority of 
private sector health data with an exception of data on immunization, notiﬁ able diseases and maternal mortality, are not re-
ported to the state. There is no formal system to capture health information generated at point of care of General Practitioners. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
3A
Rationale for Health Information Policy
The HIS survey conducted by Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine  in August, 2009, using the WHO 
- Health Matrix Network (HMN) tool, highlighted some broad areas of concern. The critical areas of de ﬁ ciency included 
components related to “Resources” (i.e. policy, planning, HIS institutions, human resources, ﬁ nancing and infrastructure) 
and “Data Management”. Situational analysis of data sources revealed that the vital statistics, population based surveys and  
health & disease records were ranked “adequate” whilst health service records and resource records were ranked “present 
but not adequate” when compared to the HMN gold standard. Detailed health information related issues and gaps were              
elucidated during the policy formulation. 
Major concerns
The major problems related to the national HIS in Sri Lanka are the lack of clear policies on health information management, 
compartmentalization of the information governance mechanism, inadequate coordination among existing information sys-
tems, limited data sharing, moderate use of information for decision making and insufﬁ cient automation leading to relatively 
modest quality of health information. Moreover, the national HIS has not evolved sufﬁ ciently to cater for changing information 
needs. Thus, a much desired “information culture” within the heath sector is not yet achieved.
There are also no clearly deﬁ ned regional, institutional or programme based focal points for health information management 
in all areas. Notably, some disciplines have developed information systems to cater to their needs, although, there are no 
proper mechanisms for integration with the national HIS. Moreover, the lack of integration has led to the repeated capture of 
the same data elements from different groups, posing an undue burden on the data collection process. Most data collection 
forms have not undergone timely revisions. 
The public health programmes in Sri Lanka operate under designated directorates with a certain degree of autonomy. Many of 
the information systems belonging to public health programmes were therefore, developed independently and have remained 
as such even in their implementation. This invariably poses a considerable deterrent to information sharing.
Moreover, the hospital information system in operation has not been revised for more than 20 years. Hence, it is not capable 
of generating all the required information to fulﬁ ll the present day needs; for instance, the hospital system does not capture 
detailed out-patient data and does not allow life-long continuity of patient records. Although some private sector healthcare 
institutions generate and are willing to share their information, there is no proper mechanism for integration with the national 
HIS. There also remains certain information gaps such as data in relation to occupational health, environmental health, injuries, 
indigenous curative care, M&E data and hospital management information. Further, little emphasis is made on geographically 
referenced health and health related data – GIS. The digital out puts of medical laboratories and radiological machines are 
not optimally utilized by linking them to respective information systems. 
It is observed that the curative and preventive care information systems together capture a large number of data at the grass-
root level. Yet, in general, the existing data is inadequately utilized in formulating policies, preparing plans, and making 
management and clinical decisions. One key contributor to this the dearth of timely information and the relative rigidity in 
information retrieval, processing and presentation, is the highly inaccessible paper records and registries. A further contributor 
to this is the lack of an “information culture” where evidence based decisions are encouraged and considered as the norm. 
Presently, the Provincial Department of Health Services (PDHS) as the governing body responsible for the health services of 
a given province under the devolution of power in 1989, does not comprehensively receive health information of the health 
institutions (curative and preventive) within the province. Further, the Regional Department of Health Services (RDHS) 
within a PDHS will only receive health information pertaining to the institutions under it’s preview (curative and preventive), 
whereas the institutions governed centrally (Line Ministry Institutions) though located within the territory of the RDHS, 
will directly report to Line Ministry institutions. This de ﬁ ciency in the information ﬂ ow has hampered the evidence based 
decision making process at PDHS and RDHS levels. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
4A
Personally identi ﬁ able health information requires a high degree of con ﬁ dentiality. Presently, ethical considerations in                
information handling,information use, information sharing and information use in research is not adequately covered. The 
present focus on information security, both physical and virtual also remain minimal. 
Automation of health information systems is slow and less coordinated. In this regard, the high initial cost of ICT infra-
structure remains a pressing issue. The required skills and knowledge related to ICT among general health staff also remains 
inadequate. Furthermore, there is little emphasis on planned capacity building, identiﬁ cation of new cadres and recruitment, 
for information management and ICT, also remain low. 
Recent developments
The manual and paper based national HIS is fast becoming obsolete. The need for modernizing the HIS according to                
contemporary needs is vital; giving emphasis on suitable and selective automation of the manual information systems in a 
cost-effective and sustainable manner. 
eHealth, automation and innovation
WHO describes eHealth as “the transfer of health resources and health care by electronic means”.In general eHealth is the 
application of information and communication technologies (ICT - all electronic forms) to all or any aspect of health. It 
includes such applications relating to care delivery (patient management and health service management), public health 
(preventive and promotive), medical education and health related research.
In realizing a plethora of potential beneﬁ ts of adopting eHealth, the government of Sri Lanka has spearheaded the process of 
incorporating ICT applications in the health sector. In line with this, the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 
of Sri Lanka has formed the National eHealth Steering Committee (NeHSC)– a national level body for eHealth governance. 
This initiative is well supported by WHO on the report on Building Foundations for eHealth “National foundation actions 
form the basis of eHealth in countries”. 
Under the guidance of NeHSC, the National eHealth Guidelines & Standards (NeGS)are  drafted. The guidelines are set for 
aspects of the Architectural Model for the National Health Information System, ICT Management, Networking and Con-
nectivity, Communication Interface, Ethics, Privacy, Conﬁ dentiality and Security of Information and Data standards. NeGS 
presently forms the basis for all eHealth initiatives in the state health sector.
Present eHealth initiatives
Notable improvements in the state HIS have taken place in the recent past. The Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine in collaboration with the Postgraduate Institute of Medicine (PGIM) has created a unique and especially skilled 
work force for health information management; viz. doctors trained in Biomedical Informatics, who have been instrumental 
in spearheading the recent innovations.
Further to these developments, the electronic version of the Indoor Morbidity and Mortality Report (IMMR) is successfully 
replacing its manual counterpart. Thus, the morbidity and mortality data collection process and resulting compilation of 
annual health statistics will be fully automated within the next 3 years. 
An electronic patient management system for OPD patients is tested in several medium scale hospitals, whilst, a fuller version 
for in-ward patients is also being developed and tested; the current key focus being registration of all patients and capturing 
the discharge diagnosis. Steps are taken to establish Computer Maintenance Units (CMU) in selected institutions to ensure 
the sustainability of these information systems. Presently, births are electronically captured in a majority of labour rooms 
through WEBIIS. Furthermore, continued constructive discussions are being held to streamline the data collection processes 
of Maternal and Child Health and immunization.  A unique identi ﬁ er viz. the Personal Health Number (PHN) is presently 
being pilot tested. This identiﬁ er will pave the way for continuity of care and life-long health records, leading to the capture 
of number of patients as opposed to episodes.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
5A
A HRM system to handle the complicated appointments, transfers and promotions of doctors is functional. Modiﬁ cation of 
a similar system to handle other staff categories is in the pipeline. 
The MSD has implemented a system for medical supplies management from central level, through RMSDs to health institutions. 
This Policy
This National Policy on Health Information falls in line with and supports objectives set out in the National Health Policy. 
The present effort of formulating this Policy was initiated by the timely action of the relevant authorities for “Health Infor-
mation System Modernization”, with the primary view of overcoming the identiﬁ ed information related issues and achieving 
the stipulated national health goals. 
It is also aimed at deﬁ ning the direction for systematically converting appropriate areas of HIS to an electronic information 
system in future and encourage innovations. The outcome of this is the use of reliable and good quality information through 
a resilient HIS, leading to improved health systems performance, quality of health care, universal access, increased service 
delivery, reduced burden, increased ef ﬁ ciency, and improved cost-effectiveness. Moreover, the policy will facilitate the 
informed decision making process. 
The policy process
The results of the Health Matrix Network (HMN) survey in August, 2009, was instrumental in getting the initial direction 
to the policy process. The policy formulation process was further based on a comprehensive situation analysis done through 
a series of focused group discussions involving relevant high level stakeholders, representing the major Health Information 
sub-systems.  These discussions were held from mid-August, 2012 to February, 2013.The key analysts were the Health In-
formation Unit and the Policy Development & Analysis Unit. 
The draft version was discussed extensively with a wider forum which included ofﬁ cials at the highest level of the Ministry 
of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine and Indigenous Medicine, Department of Census and Statistics, Registrar 
Generals Department, World Health Organization, World Bank and other funding agencies and NGOs.  The development of 
the ﬁ nal version and public scrutiny which followed, led to the overall consensus prior to Cabinet approval.
Guiding principles
The Health Information Policy is to be implemented abiding by the following guiding principles;
1. Citizen centric approach
2. Good governance and transparency
3. Upholding national values of free healthcare, right to health, universal health coverage, equity and social justice
4. Encouraging multiple stakeholder involvement, collaboration and partnerships for information dissemination and 
sharing
5. Evidence based decision making and accountability
6. Ensuring privacy and con ﬁ dentiality of healthcare recipients
7. Sensitivity towards cultural diversity and social norms 
8. Systems-approach to health information with a focus on interoperability 
9. Minimal data redundancy in data capture
10. Conformity to technology relevance, simplicity, cost-effectiveness and judicious & ef ﬁ cient use of information 
resources
11. Sustainability of information system
In keeping with above principles the policy vision, mission, objectives and the key policy areas with statements for imple-
mentation are as follows:  

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
6A
Vision
A Health Information System (HIS) which augments an effective, ef ﬁ cient, equitable, economical and quality healthcare 
service; while ensuring privacy and conﬁ dentiality of care recipients. 
Mission
To provide quality and timely health information for evidence based decision making through establishment of a ubiquitous, 
integrated, resilient,dynamic, cost-effective and sustainable Health Information System.  
Policy Objectives
The broad objectives of this policy are;
1. To ensure 50% of all health institutions generate, disseminate and use timely and quality health information to support 
organisational management and development.
2. To make available comprehensive systems for personalized and community based health information management for 
shared and continuous care of care recipients who receive care at 50% of all Base Hospitals, District General Hospitals, 
Provincial General Hospitals and Teaching Hospitals.
3. To ensure optimal data/information sharing and access to, health information in relation to all sharable data in health 
information systems, while ensuring ethical considerations and conﬁ dentiality of care recipients. 
4. To encourage suitable innovations related to health information management and eHealth in all information processes; 
while ensuring interoperability of information systems.
5. To ensure security and integrity of all health data/information. 
6. To ensure sustainability of all health information systems. 
This policy gives direction in ﬁ ve areas related to HIS to achieve the above policy objectives. 
1. Health Information Related Resources
2. Indicators and Data Elements
3. Data and Information Management
4. Data/Information Security, Client Privacy, Con ﬁ dentiality and Ethics
eHealth and Innovations
Policy Statements
1. Health Information Related Resources
1.1. Information processes
1, procedures, infrastructure, and human resources shall be appropriately adopted for data 
management to improve efﬁ ciency.
1.2. Health information related organizational, institutional and individual human resource capacity building shall be 
facilitated.
1.3. Continuous annual resource allocation and ﬁ nancing shall be ensured for sustainability of Health Information System.
2. Indicators and Data Elements
        2.1   Health data collection and related information processes shall be aligned with information needs and indicators  
   at all levels.
        2.2   Health and health related data elements/information from state and non-state sectors shall be integrated into the  
   national health information system.
 
1 Information processes include the following processes: collecting, organising, analysing, storing and retrieving, transmitting and receiving, processing 
and displaying of data/information.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
7A
3.  Data and Information Management
  3.1 Health information governance 2 structure shall be strengthened.
  3.2 Continuity of care for healthcare recipients shall be ensured through a life- long health record.
  3.3 Proper retention, archiving and disposal of health data/information shall be ensured.
  3.4 Sharing of data and information within and outside the health sector shall be promoted.
  3.5 Responsibility for data and information quality at national and sub-national levels shall be assigned to the re-
spective authorities.
  3.6 Optimal and wide use of health data/information shall be ensured through appropriate data processing, im-
proved efﬁ ciency and quality of health information reporting and improved accessibility of health information 
by all stakeholders.
4.  Data/Information Security, Client Privacy, Conﬁ dentiality and Ethics
  4.1 Ethical and fair information practices shall be incorporated into information management ensuring client priva-
cy and conﬁ dentiality.
  4.2 Data and information security shall be ensured for client data protection.
5. eHealth and Innovations
  5.1 eHealth governance structure shall be strengthened.
  5.2 Information and Communication Technology solutions and innovations shall be appropriately adopted to im-
prove the quality, efﬁ ciency, patient safety, and cost effectiveness of health information systems. 
  5.3 Interoperability of the various sub-components of national health information shall be ensured through stand-
ardisation, to facilitate seamless data exchange.
  5.4 Health data/information storage shall be facilitated to minimize health data/information loss.
  5.5 Health data/information storage shall be facilitated to minimize health data/information loss and ensure data/
information security.
  5.6 Continuous annual resource allocation and ﬁ nancing shall be ensured for sustainability of eHealth systems.
Implementation of the Policy
This policy will act as the overarching document guiding the health care delivery organizations to take action to manage and 
improve their health information accordingly. 
The Directorate of Health Information of the Management Development and Planning Unit of the Ministry of Health, Nu-
trition and Indigenous Medicine will be the focal point for implementation of this policy. 
This Directorate is responsible to oversee and guide to ensure that respective agencies responsible for health information 
generation, dissemination, analysis and use are doing so in a way that contributes to overall health improvement, in line with 
the health goals. This Directorate will also be responsible to identify information system gaps from time to time through 
appropriate mechanisms of internal or external evaluations and facilitate to rectify such. This policy is reinforced by the 
‘National Health Information Strategic Plan’ (Annexure1), which shall support the implementation of the policy giving the 
necessary guidance for formulation of necessary action plans.  
Monitoring and evaluation of policy
The Directorate of Health Information of the Management Development and Planning Unit of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and Indigenous Medicine will be responsible to periodically review and revise this Policy and the Strategic plan. 
This Directorate of Health Information shall establish a monitoring & evaluation system to review the implementation of this 
policy. This M&E plan shall consist of Key Performance Indicators (Annexure2) to monitor the successful accomplishment 
of the board objectives of this policy.  
2Health information governance is the set of multi-disciplinary structures, policies, procedures, processes and controls implemented to manage infor-
mation at an enterprise level.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
8A
Related policies
This policy shall comply with all relevant health and health related policies of the government of Sri Lanka.
This policy shall comply with all relevant information acts of the government of Sri Lanka regarding information collection, 
retention, dissemination, archiving and disposal.
This policy shall comply with all relevant information acts of the government of Sri Lanka, on national languages.
This policy shall comply with existing governments laws/regulations related to privacy and conﬁ dentiality. 
This policy shall comply with existing governments laws/regulations related to electronic transactions and computer crimes. 
This policy shall comply with existing governments laws/regulations related to intellectual property rights. 
This policy shall establish uniformity and standardization of all state websites through implementation of web standards and 
guidelines prescribed by Information Communication Technology Agency (ICTA) of Sri Lanka.
The National Health Information Strategic Plan
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 
Annexure 1
Abbreviations  
Add. Sec. (MS) - Additional Secretary (Medical Services)
BH - Base Hospital
CMU - Computer Maintenance Units 
Cons. HI - Consultant in Health Information
D/HI - Director/Health Information
D/OD - Director Organizational Development
D/P - Director/Planning
D/PHSD - Director/Private Health Sector Development
DCS - Department of Census and Statistics
DDG(P) - Deputy Director General (Planning)
DGH - District General Hospital
DGHS - Director General of Health Services
GIS - Geographical Information System
HIS - Health Information System
HIU - Health Information Unit 
ICT - Information and Communication Technologies
M&E - Monitoring and Evaluation
MO/DS-HI - Medical Of ﬁ cer/Dental Surgeon - Health Information
MRR - Medical Record Room

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
9A
NeGS - National eHealth Guidelines & Standards 
NeHSC - National eHealth Steering Committee 
NHISC - National Health Information Steering Committee 
NHSL - National Hospital of Sri Lanka
PDHS - Provincial Director of Health Services
PGH - Provincial General Hospital
PHN - Personal Health Number
RDHS - Regional Department of Health Services
RGD - Registrar Generals Department
SH - Secretary Health
TH - Teaching Hospital
UADS - Use Agreements for Data/Information Sharing
WGIE - Working Group on Innovations and eHealth 
WGIPR - Working Group on Information Process Re-engineering 
WHO - World Health Organization
 
1 Time frame for implementation of each Key Action Area/Implementation Guideline is calculated from the effective date of this policy. 
Policy Area 1: Health Information Related Resources
Policy Directive 1.1:Information processes, procedures, infrastructure, and human resources shall be appropri-
ately adopted for data management to improve efﬁ ciency.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
1.1.1 Information 
Processes and Pro-
cedures
Ensure Health 
Information process 
modernization and 
continuous improve-
ment.
1.1.1.1 Establish a national level permanent 
technical group headed by D/HI for 
information process management 
(Working Group on Information 
Process Re-engineering – WGIPR) 
under the National Health Information 
Steering Committee (NHISC). 
3 months NHISC, D/HI
1.1.1.2 Periodically evaluate information 
processes, identify gaps and make 
recommendations for improvement 
and bridging of gaps, re-structure 
and incorporation of technology as 
appropriate.
6 months for initial 
evaluation  and con-
tinuous  activity there 
after
WGIPR under 
NHISC
1.1.1.3 Establish new information processes 
to fulﬁ l identiﬁ ed under 1.1.1.2 new 
requirements.
24 months WGIPR  under 
NHISC

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
10A
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
1.1.2 ICT Infra-
structure, ICT De-
vices and Software
Ensure optimal and 
appropriate utiliza-
tion of ICT resourc-
es in information 
system automations.
1.1.2.1   Acquire ICT devices for automation 
purposes and ICT infrastructure in            
accordance with the NeGS.
Continuous activity All DDGs
1.1.2.2  Establish and/or maintain or utilise, 
central level server facilities at national, 
sub-national and/or institutional level 
for health data repositories and health 
software as appropriate and in accord-
ance with NeGS.
24 months SH, DDG(P), D/HI
1.1.2.3   Provide internet connectivity for ofﬁ cial 
usage to relevant units as a utility in 
accordance with the NeGS.
24 months DGHS,D/HI
1.1.2.4  Establish a mechanism for onsite 
maintenance and troubleshooting for                
electronic hardware and computer                
networks through Computer Mainte-
nance Units.
12 months DGHS, DDG(P), 
D/HI
1.1.2.5  Incorporate ICT as per the NeGS in 
infrastructure development projects in 
the healthcare sector.
Continuous  activity SH, All DDGs
Policy Directive 1.2 :Health information related organizational, institutional and individual human resource capacity 
building shall be facilitated.
Strategies Key Action Areas Time Frame
1 Responsibility
1.2.1 Human Re-
source
The human re-
sources required for 
health information 
management shall be 
strengthened.
1.2.1.1  Periodically review and revise as                  
appropriate cadres for health informa-
tion management and ICT.  
Continuous  activity DDG(P), D/P, D/HI
1.2.1.2  Improve ICT skills, attitudes and                
practises of existing health staff, in-
cluding of those in private healthcare 
institutions, to be optimally utilized in 
the health information process.
Continuous  activity DGHS, DDG(P), 
D/HI
1.2.1.3  Provide continuous professional                            
development and relevant training for 
health information management and 
ICT staff.  
Continuous  activity DDG(P), D/HI
1.2.1.4     Provide training for relevant health staff 
and medical students on morbidity and 
mortality record keeping and coding.
Continuous  activity DDG(P), 
DDG(MS), 
D/HI,DD/MSU

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
11A
Policy Directive 1.3 :Continuous annual resource allocation and ﬁ nancing shall be ensured for sustainability of Health 
Information System.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
1.3.1 Sustainable 
Health Information 
System
All modernization 
efforts of the Health 
Information System 
shall focus on 
sustainability.
1.3.1.1 Identify budget lines for health infor-
mation system for implementation of 
strategies described in this strategic plan.
12 months SH, DGHS
1.3.2 Resource 
Mobilisation
Facilitate resource 
mobilization for 
health information 
and Health 
Information System 
management.
1.3.2.1  Develop and implement pragmatically 
phased   information system moderni-
zation action plans at national and sub- 
national levels with parallel infrastruc-
ture development and human resource 
capacity building.
12 months SH, DGHS, All 
Provincial SHs, All 
PDHS
1.3.2.1    Incorporate technological advancements 
through systematic decommissioning 
and cost effective replacements.
Continuous activity DGHS,  All 
PDHS,WGIPR  un-
der NHISC, D/HI
Policy Area 2: Indicators and Data Elements
Policy Directive 2.1 :  Health data collection and related information processes shall be aligned with information needs 
and indicators at all levels.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame
1 Responsibility
2.1.1 Indicators
Identify a minimum 
set of indicators 
at national,                         
sub-national and 
institutional levels.
2.1.1.1Identify information needs including 
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) 
frameworks at national, sub-national 
and institutional levels.
6 months for initial 
evaluation  
DDG(P), D/HI
2.1.1.2 Deﬁ ne a minimum set of indicators 
to satisfy the identiﬁ ed information 
needs including minimum sets of data 
elements required.These are recom-
mended to be on par with internation-
ally accepted indicators whenever 
applicable.
12 months DDG(P), D/OD, D/
HI
2.1.1.3 Periodically review the indicators as a 
part of process improvement.
Continuous  activity DDG(P), D/HI,  
WGIPR  under 
NHISC

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
12A
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
2.1.2 Data 
Elements, Data 
Standards and 
Meta-data
Ensure uniformity 
of data elements and 
their interpretations.
2.1.2.1  Periodically revise existing data 
collection forms and data elements 
of national signiﬁ cance, to maintain 
relevance, by the relevant national 
body in consultation with the WGIPR. 
The revised formats must encourage 
and support future automation where 
appropriate.
Continuous  activity All DDGs, D/HI,  
WGIPR  under 
NHISC
2.1.2.2 Deﬁ ne and periodically revise data 
standards, data deﬁ nitions (develop 
and maintain a data dictionary) and 
meta-data
2  at the national level.
6 months for initial ac-
tivity  and Continuous 
D/HI,  WGIPR  
under NHISC
2.1.3 Information 
Processes
Align information 
processes to capture 
deﬁ ned data sets 
required as speciﬁ ed 
by the users.
2.1.3.1  Improve or establish information pro-
cesses to align with identiﬁ ed mini-
mum sets of data elements.
18 months D/HI, WG
2.1.3.2  Facilitate and coordinate changing 
requirements of data collection, data 
collection tools/forms or reporting 
methods.
Continuous  activity Relevant national 
programme/unit,   
WGIPR  under 
NHISC
Policy Directive 2.2 :Health and health related data elements/information from state and non-state sectors shall be inte-
grated into the national health information system.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame
1 Responsibility
2.2.1 State and 
Non-state Health 
Data/Information
Incorporate health 
data/information 
from all relevant 
state and non-state 
agenises into the 
Health Information 
System.
2.2.1.1  Identify a minimum set of health related 
data elements that state and non-state 
agencies (including private sector 
healthcare) shall send to national HIS.
6 months D/PHSD, DDG(P), 
D/HI, WGIPR  un-
der NHISC
2.2.1.2  Establish a mechanism that reports 
health related data elements from 
state (other than health) and non-state 
agencies (including private sector 
healthcare).
18 months DGHS, D/HI,  D/
PHSD,WGIPR  
under NHISC
2.2.2 Disease Sur-
veillance
Strengthen the sur-
veillance systems for 
regular monitoring 
of selected diseases.
2.2.2.1  Strengthen surveillance mechanisms for 
selected diseases.
12 months Relevant national 
programme/unit,   
WGIPR  under 
NHISC
2.2.3 Nation-
al Census and                  
National Surveys
Strengthen the 
mechanism to 
extract health data 
from national cen-
sus.
2.2.3.1   Identify and extract health related data 
elements from national census.
12 months DGHS, DCS, D/
HI, WGIPR  under 
NHISC
2.2.3.2   Identify and incorporate health related 
data elements to periodic popula-
tion-based surveys, in collaboration 
with other relevant ministries.
12 months DDG(P), D/HI,  
All Directors of 
related national 
programmes
2 Metadata is deﬁ ned as the data providing information about one or more aspects of the data, such as; means of creation of the data, purpose of the 
data, time and date of creation, creator or author of the data, location on a computer network where the data were created and standards used.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
13A
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
2.2.4 Health Re-
search
Strengthen the 
mechanism to 
capture health data 
from health related 
research.
2.2.4.1  Facilitate research on relevant health 
related scopes.
Continuous  activity DGHS, 
DDG(ET&R)
2.2.4.2  Establish mechanism to capture in   
formation from published research.
12 months DDG(ET&R)
2.2.5 National 
Health Accounts 
and Healthcare 
Costing
Strengthen the 
mechanism to cap-
ture health expendi-
ture and health care 
costing data.
2.2.5.1 Strengthen the focal point for nation-
al health accounts and costing at the 
central level.
6 months DGHS, Add. Sec. 
(MS)
2.2.5.2 Establish an information process to 
routinely capture healthcare costing 
information. This process shall have 
deﬁ ned cost centres and identiﬁ ed 
human resources to capture data.
12 months DGHS,  Add. Sec. 
(MS)
Policy Area 3: Data and Information Management
Policy Directive 3.1 :Health information governance
3structure shall be strengthened.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
3.1.1 Health Infor-
mation Governance
Health information 
governance structure 
& mechanisms shall 
be strengthened 
within the state 
health sector with 
identiﬁ ed national 
and sub-national 
focal points.
3.1.1.1  Coordinate and facilitate intra-sectoral 
and inter-sectoral health information 
related activities.
Continuous  activity NHISC
3.1.1.2  Empower the Health Information 
Unit (HIU) of the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 
as the national focal point on health 
information management to provide 
sector-wide Health Information Sys-
tem leadership in order to facilitate 
the implementation of this National 
Policy on Health Information.
12  months DGHS
3.1.1.3  Establish health information manage-
ment units as designated focal points 
on health information management at 
the provincial level, RDHS level,rele-
vant national directorates,specialized 
campaigns and at institutional level in 
NHSL, Special Hospitals, THs, PGHs, 
DGHs and BHs.
24  months Cons. HI or MO/
DS-HI
3.1.1.4  Upgrade Medical Record Rooms 
(MRR) in all hospitals.
24  months DDGHS(P), D/HI
3 Health information governance is the set of multi-disciplinary structures, policies, procedures, processes and controls implemented to manage infor-
mation at an enterprise level.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
14A
Policy Directive 3.2: Continuity of care for healthcare recipients shall be ensured through a life-long health record.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
3.2.1 Unique 
Health Identiﬁ er
Issue a unique health 
identiﬁ er “Person-
al Health Number 
(PHN)” to all health 
clients.
3.2.1.1 Establish a mechanism to issue a unique 
identiﬁ er to all health clients to ensure 
continuity of care (life-long health re-
cord). This identi ﬁ er shall be given at 
the ﬁ rst point of contact with healthcare 
for each health client.
12  months DDG(P), D/HI, All 
PDHS, All Heads of 
Institutions
3.2.2 Use of PHN
Encourage the use of 
PHN in each episode 
by healthcare recip-
ients.
3.2.2.1 Establish a mechanism to make aware 
the public on the bene ﬁ ts of producing 
the Personal Health Number (PHN) in 
healthcare encounters.
Continuous  activity DGHS, DDG(P)
Policy Directive 3.3: Proper retention, archiving and disposal of health data/information shall be ensured.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame* Responsibility
3.3.1 Data Storage 
and Backup
Ensure secure 
and adequate data 
storage and backup 
facilities are provid-
ed in all health infor-
mation subsystems 
and processes.
3.3.1.1 Improve the storage capacities and 
storage methods of all Medical Record 
Rooms for paper based records through 
implementation of quality management 
techniques
4.
24 months DDGHS(P), D/HI
3.3.2 Data/informa-
tion Archiving and 
Disposal
Ensure data/infor-
mation archiving 
and disposal be done 
in accordance with 
the relevant prevail-
ing laws and depart-
mental regulations.
3.3.2.1 Comply with all relevant information 
acts of the Government of Sri Lanka re-
garding information retention, archiving 
and disposal.
Continuous  activity DGHS
 4 Quality management ensures that an organization, product or service is consistent. It has four main components: quality planning, quality control, 
quality assurance and quality improvement.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
15A
Policy Directive 3.4: Sharing of data and information within and outside the health sector shall be promoted.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
3.4.1 Data/Infor-
mation Hub
Data redundancy
5 in 
health information 
systems shall be 
minimized.
3.4.1.1   Establish a central level heath data 
repository with identiﬁ ed, reusable 
health related data/information to 
minimise data redundancy in data 
collection and storage.
12 months DGHS
3.4.1.2   Establish a mechanism to share reusa-
ble health related data/information.
12 months WGIPR  under 
NHISC, D/HI
3.4.2 Data/Infor-
mation Sharing
Encourage and facil-
itate intra and inter 
sectoral data and 
information sharing.
3.4.2.1   Deﬁ ne a Data/Information Matrix
6 for 
all data, data sets and information. De-
ﬁ ne elements of Master Patient Index
7 
for individually identiﬁ able health 
client data. 
6 months WGIPR  under 
NHISC, D/HI
3.4.2.2 Establish guidelines and regulations 
for data/information sharing by intra 
and inter sectoral Use Agreements for 
Data/Information Sharing (UADS).
8
18 months WGIPR  under 
NHISC, D/HI
5 Data redundancy is a condition created within a database or data storage system in which the same piece of data is held in two separate places. Wasteful 
data redundancy generally occurs when a given piece of data does not have to be repeated, but ends up being duplicated due to i nefﬁ ciency or process 
complexity.
6 Data/information matrix shall identify the data/information creators, deﬁ ne and assign data /information stewards, deﬁ ne the level of sensitivity, specify 
the maximum level of accesses through authorization and approval for sharing and publication, and identify of ﬁ cers for authorization and approval, for 
all data, data sets and information.
7 Master Patient Index (MPI) is an electronic database that holds information on every patient registered at a healthcare organisation. The MPI stores 
information like PHN, patient name, date of birth, gender, race, place of residence, GS division, email, phone, registering ins titution, date and time of 
record creation & alteration and other content and shall relate to the patient’s medical history.
8 Use Agreements for Data/Information Sharing (UADS) shall apply to but not limited to data/information sharing among Directorates, Special Pro-
grams, Campaigns and Institutions. Information sharing and reporting mechanisms to central level, PDHS and RDHS shall be established or strengthened 
as appropriate. Inter sectoral information sharing shall include but not limited to sharing with Registrar General’s Department, Department of Census and 
Statistics, Department of Education and Department of Police. These agreement shall also de ﬁ ne sharing of data/information with foreign governments 
and international agencies.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
16A
Policy Directive 3.5: Responsibility for data and information quality at national and sub-national levels shall be as-
signed to the respective authorities.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
3.5.1 Data/informa-
tion Quality
Ensure timeliness 
and quality of data 
and information.
3.5.1.1  Establish in-built mechanisms to en-
sure data quality at point of capture as 
far as possible.
24 months WGIPR  under 
NHISC
3.5.1.2   Make health administrators of provin-
cial and regional health institutions, 
special programmes and campaigns, 
hospitals, public health institutions and 
private health sector accountable for 
delivering timely and quality health 
information.
Continuous  activity SH, DGHS,  Provin-
cial SHs
3.5.1.3 Incorporate routine and thorough 
quality assurance and quality control 
procedures (including monitoring and 
feedback mechanisms) to all informa-
tion processes.
24 months DGHS, D/HI
Policy Directive 3.6: Optimal and wide use of health data/information shall be ensured through appropriate data pro-
cessing, improved efﬁ ciency and quality of health information reporting and improved accessibility of health informa-
tion by all stakeholders. 
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame
1 Responsibility
3.6.1 Health Infor-
mation Bulletins 
and Statistical 
Reports
Ensure that high 
quality, quarterly 
and annual Health 
Information reports 
are prepared to meet 
the needs of the 
intended audience at 
international, nation-
al and sub-national 
levels.
3.6.1.1    Publish at minimum an annual sta-
tistical report at provincial, regional, 
specialised units, programs & cam-
paigns and line ministry institution 
levels of Ministry of Health, Nutri-
tion and Indigenous Medicine, no 
later than end of ﬁ rst quarter of the 
following year.
Continuous  activity Relevant Directo-
rates
3.6.1.2    Produce periodic feedback reports 
and periodic analysis reports to satis-
fy end user needs through a deﬁ ned 
feedback channel.
Continuous  activity DDG(P), D/HI, Rel-
evant Directorates
3.6.1.3    Institutionalize knowledge man-
agement through establishment of 
a searchable repository of surveys, 
researches and statistical reports. 
This shall include consolidation of 
HIS-relevant data from other health 
areas and programs.
Continuous  activity DGHS, D/HI, Rele-
vant Directorates
3.6.1.4   Ensure results of health surveys and 
research conducted by institutions 
other than the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine 
be collected within a reasonable time 
frame.
Continuous  activity D/HI

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
17A
3.6.2 Geograph-
ical Information                
System (GIS) 
Health Layer
Ensure integration 
of geographically 
referenced data to 
data from HIS to 
visualize trends and 
relationships over 
space and time.
3.6.2.1    Establish and maintain geographically 
referenced health data/information at 
national, sub-national, program and 
institutional levels, based on health-
base maps
9.
24 months DGHS, DDG(P), D/
HI, All PDHS, All 
Heads of Institu-
tions
3.6.2.2   Device a mechanism to maintain and 
routinely update the GIS Health Layer
10.
24 months D/HI
3.6.3 Use of Media
Optimally utilize 
the available media 
for effective health 
information  dissem-
ination to all health 
clients.
3.6.3.1   Continue current methods and media of 
health information dissemination which 
are proven beneﬁ cial in the context.
Continuous  activity DGHS
3.6.3.2   Establish a national health observatory
11 
or dashboard for internal and external 
users to re ﬂ ect the health status and 
service delivery.
36 months D/HI, DDG(P)
3.6.3.3   Establish guidelines for government 
and private media to provide health 
information to the public as their social 
responsibility.
18 months DGHS, D/HEB
3.6.3.4   Establish and timely update a citizen 
centric Health Web Portal.
12 months DDG(P), D/HI
3.6.4 Culture for 
Information
Promote evidence 
based decision 
making and account-
ability at all levels 
through data stew-
ardship and creation 
of an organization 
culture for infor-
mation within the 
health sector.
3.6.4.1   Establish guidelines to make it               
mandatory that all planning and train-
ing submissions to indicate HIS-based 
evidence for proposed activities at all 
levels.
24 months DGHS
3.6.4.2  Establish guidelines to incorporate health 
information to set and monitor perfor-
mance goals and targets at all levels.
24 months DGHS
9 Health-base maps of geographically referenced heath service data such as hospitals, clinics, facilities etc. shall be maintained centrally by the HIU of 
the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
10 GIS Health Layer is a centrally maintained layer of geographically referenced health/disease data/information of national signiﬁ cance. 
11 Health observatory is a gateway to health-related statistics of the country and is analogous to the Global Health Observatory (GHO) of the World 
Health Organisation. The aim of this portal is to provide easy access to national, sub-national, institutional and programme based data and statistics 
with a focus on comparability to monitor situations and trends.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
18A
Policy Area 4: Data/Information Security, Client Privacy, Conﬁ dentiality and Ethics
Policy Directive 4.1: Ethical and fair information practices shall be incorporated into information management ensuring 
client privacy and conﬁ dentiality.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
4.1.1Fair informa-
tion Practices
Implement fair 
information practic-
es in relation to all 
health data/informa-
tion as appropriate.
4.1.1.1 Establish guidelines for the                                         
collection of individually identi ﬁ able 
data/information to possess qualities of 
relevance, integrity, a written purpose, 
the capacity for correction and consent 
of the individual.
24 months DGHS, 
DDG(ET&R), 
DDG(P)
4.1.1.2    Establish guidelines and integral 
mechanisms in health information sub-            
systems to ensure controlled access to 
individually identiﬁ able data/informa-
tion and health data/information. The 
access control shall be role based and 
decided on need to know and need to 
do basis.  
24 months D/HI, DDG(P)
4.1.1.3     Educate health staff on concepts of 
client privacy, conﬁ dentiality and fair 
information practices.
Continuous  activity DDG(P)
4.1.2 Anonymity 
and Pseudo-ano-
nymity
Ensure principles 
of anonymity and 
pseudo-anonymity 
are preserved at all 
times in manual and 
electronic health 
information systems.
4.1.2.1    Design and use a unique Personal Health 
Number (PHN) for health clients 
identiﬁ cation, preserving healthcare 
recipient’s privacy and conﬁ dentiality.
12 months D/HI, DDG(P)
4.1.2.2    Educate health staff on concepts of 
anonymity and pseudo-anonymity.
Continuous  activity DGHS, DDG(P), 
D/HI

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
19A
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
4.1.3 Empow-
er  healthcare                 
recipients
Empower healthcare 
recipients to exercise 
their right to conﬁ -
dentiality.
4.1.3.1   Educate healthcare recipients on con-
cepts of privacy, conﬁ dentiality, fair 
information practices, anonymity and 
pseudo-anonymity.
Continuous  activity DGHS
Policy Directive 4.2: Data and information security shall be ensured for client data protection.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame
1 Responsibility
4.2.1 Information 
Security
Client data/infor-
mation shall be 
handled, stored or 
destroyed while 
protecting against 
unauthorized access, 
use, disclosure, 
disruption, mod-
iﬁ cation, perusal, 
inspection, recording 
or destruction.
4.2.1.1    Handle, store and destroy physical 
records containing health related infor-
mation according to the relevant acts 
and regulations of the government to 
ensure data/information security. 
Continuous  activity DGHS
4.2.1.2   Store physical records in suitable 
storage areas with restricted access to 
such premises.
Continuous  activity DGHS
4.2.1.3   Make aware staff who are handling 
physical records on concepts of data/
information security.  
Continuous  activity DGHS
Policy Area 5: eHealth
12 and Innovations
Policy Directive 5.1: eHealth and innovations governance structure shall be strengthened.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
5.1.1 eHealth and 
Innovations Gov-
ernance
The eHealth and 
innovations govern-
ance structure and 
mechanism shall be 
strengthened.
5.1.1.1  Coordinate and facilitate eHealth and 
innovations related to health informa-
tion.
Continuous  activity National eHealth 
Steering Commit-
tee(NeHSC) under 
NHISC
5.1.1.2  Formalize and implement the National 
eHealth Guidelines and Standards 
(NeGS).
Continuous  activity D/HI
5.1.1.3  Periodically review and update the 
NeGS according to the needs and tech-
nological advancements.
Continuous  activity D/HI
5.1.1.4   Formulate guidelines for acquisition, 
maintenance and decommissioning of 
software and eHealth systems. 
24 months D/HI, DDG(P)
12 eHealth is deﬁ ned by world Health Organization as the transfer of health resources and health care by electronic means. 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
20A
Policy Directive 5.2: Information and Communication Technology solutions and innovations shall be appropriately 
adopted to improve the quality, efﬁ ciency, patient safety, and cost effectiveness health information systems. 
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame 1 Responsibility
5.2.1 Applicability 
of Technology
Appropriate adapta-
tion of eHealth and 
innovations shall be 
ensured.
5.2.1.1  Establish and function a national level 
technical committee (Working Group 
on Innovations and eHealth - WGIE) 
under the NHISC to evaluate the 
feasibility, appropriateness, cost-ef-
fectiveness and sustainability of 
proposed innovations, automations 
and eHealth systems. 
6 months NHISC, D/HI
5.2.1.2   Develop and implement a pragmati-
cally phased action plan considering 
available technology, infrastructure, 
ﬁ nances and human resource capacity. 
12 months DDGHS(P)
5.2.1.3    Establish guidelines for piloting of 
eHealth systems and innovations. 
6 months D/HI
Policy Directive 5.3: Interoperability of the various sub-components of national health information shall be ensured 
through standardization , to facilitate seamless data exchange.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame
1 Responsibility
5.3.1 Interoperabil-
ity of Information 
Sub-systems
Facilitate and 
promote interopera-
bility of information 
sub-systems.
5.3.1.1  Adopt the architectural model for 
health information systems speciﬁ ed 
in the NeGS to ensure interoperability 
between information sub-systems.
Continuous  activity DGHS
5.3.1.2  Adopt the latest version of the NeGS 
recommendations for hardware and 
software requirements on all informa-
tion systems automations.
Continuous  activity DGHS
5.3.1.3   Adopt the latest semantic and syntactic 
standards set in the latest version of 
NeGS.
Continuous  activity DGHS
Policy Directive 5.4: Health data/information storage shall be facilitated to minimize health data/information loss and 
ensure data/information security.
Strategies Key Action Areas/Implementation Guidelines Time Frame
1 Responsibility
5.4.1 Electronic 
data storage
Integrity of the 
electronic data shall 
be ensured.
5.4.1.1  Store and backup electronic health 
related data/information in accordance 
with the latest version of NeGS. 
Continuous  activity DGHS
5.4.1.2  Ensure the physical and virtual security 
of all electronic health related data/in-
formation of acquired storage facilities 
in accordance with the guidelines set in 
latest version of NeGS. 
Continuous  activity DGHS

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
21A
Policy Directive 5.5: eHealth related infrastructure and human resource capacity building shall be facilitated.
eHealth related 
infrastructure and 
human resource 
capacity building 
shall be in line with 
strategies 1.1.2 and 
1.2.1
Policy Directive 5.6: Continuous annual resource allocation and ﬁ nancing shall be ensured for sustainability of eHealth 
systems. 
eHealth related 
resource allocation 
and ﬁ nancing shall 
be in line with strat-
egies 1.3.1 and 1.3.2
The National Policy on Health Information - Key Performance Indicators
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine
Annexure2
 Key Performance Indicators
Broad Policy Ob-
jectives
Key Performance Indi-
cators
Deﬁ nitions Frequency Data 
source
1. To ensure 
50% of 
all health 
institutions 
generate, 
disseminate 
and use 
timely and 
quality health 
information 
to support 
organisational 
management 
and 
development.
Percentage of government 
health institutions which 
have a functional HMIS
1 in 
position.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which have a functional 
HMIS in position out of total 
government health institutions of Sri 
Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
Percentage of government 
health institutions which 
publish timely and 
quality
2annual health 
bulletins.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which publish timely and 
quality annual health bulletins out of 
total government health institutions of 
Sri Lanka.
Annual Annual 
health 
bulletins 
published
Percentage of registered 
private health institutions 
which have a functional 
HMIS
3 in position.
Percentage of registered private health 
institutions which have a functional 
HMIS in position out of total registered 
private health institutions of Sri Lanka
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
1 A Health Management Information System (HMIS) is a tool which helps to gather, aggregate, analyze and present health management information.A 
functional HMIS in a government health institution, shall at minimum, be able to provide the necessary information for performance appraisal at the 
monthly Health Directors Meeting of the Ministry.
2 The Annual Health Bulletins shall be published and made available, no later than the end of the following quarter and shall have qualities of accuracy, 
completeness, relevance, consistency across data sources, reliability, appropriate presentation and accessibility.
3 A Health Management Information System (HMIS) is a tool which helps to gather, aggregate, analyze and present health management information. A 
functional HMIS in a private health institution, shall at minimum, be able to provide the necessary information based on criteria at provided by the Direc-
torate of Private Health Sector Development of the Ministry.

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
22A
Broad Policy Ob-
jectives
Key Performance Indi-
cators
Deﬁ nitions Frequency Data 
source
2. To make 
available 
comprehensive 
systems for 
personalized 
and 
community 
based health 
information 
management 
for shared and 
continuous 
care of care-
recipients who 
receive care 
at 50% of all 
Base Hospitals, 
District 
General 
Hospitals, 
Provincial 
General 
Hospitals 
and Teaching 
Hospitals.
Percentage of government 
health institutions which 
have a functional patient 
registration system
4 
issuing a unique healthcare 
recipient identiﬁ er.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which have a functional 
patient registration system issuing 
a unique healthcare recipient 
identiﬁ er out of total selected health 
institutions
5of Sri Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
Percentage of government 
health institutions which 
generate electronic patient 
discharge summaries
6 for 
inward patents.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which generate electronic 
patient discharge summaries for 
inward patents out of total selected 
health institutions
5of Sri Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
Percentage of government 
health institutions 
which have a functional 
electronic OPD 
system
7 for patent data 
management.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which have a functional  
electronic OPD system for patent 
data management out of total selected 
health institutions
5of Sri Lanka
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
4 A functional patient registration system shall be able to capture patient demographic data with an assigned Personal Health Number (PHN) for all pa-
tients who present to the healthcare institution. 
 5 Selected health institutions are all Base Hospitals, District General Hospitals, Provincial General Hospitals and Teaching Hospitals.
6  A discharge summary is a clinical report prepared by a physician or other health professional at the conclusion of a hospital stay or series of treatments. It 
outlines the patient’s chief complaint,the diagnostic ﬁ ndings,the therapy administered and the patient’s response to it,and recommendations on discharge.
7  A functional electronic OPD system consists of at minimum, registration of patients who present to the OPD, OPD health data management, order 
investigations, e-prescribing and pharmacy. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
23A
Broad Policy Ob-
jectives
Key Performance Indi-
cators
Deﬁ nitions Frequency Data 
source
3. To ensure 
optimal data/
information 
sharing 
and access 
to, health 
information 
in relation to 
all sharable 
data in health 
information 
systems, while 
ensuring 
ethical 
considerations 
and 
conﬁ dentiality 
of care 
recipients. 
Percentage of 
government health 
institutions which 
contribute/share data 
to central level heath 
data repository
8and/or  
MPI9.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which contribute/share 
data to central level heath data 
repository and/or  MPI out of total 
government health institutions of 
Sri Lanka by 2020.
2020 Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
Percentage of registered 
private health 
institutions which 
contribute/share data to 
central level heath data 
repository and/or  MPI.
Percentage of registered private 
health institutions which 
contribute/share data to central 
level heath data repository and/or  
MPI  out of total registered private 
health institutions of Sri Lanka by 
2020.
2020 Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
Percentage of 
government health 
institutions which 
conduct awareness 
programmes on ethical 
considerations and 
conﬁ dentiality of care 
recipients.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which conduct 
awareness programmes on ethical 
considerations and conﬁ dentiality 
of care recipients out of total 
government health institutions of 
Sri Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
8   A central level heath data repositoryis a central place in which an aggregation of selected health data is kept and maintained in an organized way, in 
computer storage.
9 Master Patient Index (MPI) is an electronic data base that holds information on every patient registered at a healthcare organisation. The MPI stores 
information like PHN, patient name, date of birth, gender, race, place of residence, GS division, email, phone, registering institution, date and time of 
record creation & alteration and other content and shall relate to the patient’s medical history.

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
24A
Broad Policy Ob-
jectives
Key Performance Indi-
cators
Deﬁ nitions Frequency Data 
source
4. To encourage 
suitable 
innovations 
related 
to health 
information 
management 
and eHealth 
in all health 
information 
processes; 
while ensuring 
interoperability 
of information 
systems.
Percentage of 
government health 
institutions which 
adhere to eHealth 
Standards and 
Guidelines (NeGS) in 
eHealth innovations
10.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which adhere to 
eHealth Standards and Guidelines 
(NeGS) in eHealth innovations 
out of total government health 
institutions of Sri Lanka,  which 
are currently designing, piloting or 
implementing such innovations.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
Percentage of 
government health 
institutions which share 
discharge data with 
eIMMR
11for aggregate 
statistics.
Percentage of government health 
institutions which share discharge 
data with eIMMR for aggregate 
statistics out of total government 
health institutions of Sri Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
5. To ensure 
security and 
integrity of all 
health data/
information. 
Percentage of 
government health 
institutions which 
have institutional data/
information security 
strategies
12 in place.
Percentage of government 
health institutions which have 
institutional data/information 
security strategies in place out of 
total government health institutions 
of Sri Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
Percentage of registered 
private health 
institutions which 
have institutional data/
information security 
strategiesin place.
Percentage of registered private 
health institutions which have 
institutional data/information 
security strategies in place out 
of total registered private health 
institutions of Sri Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
10  Health innovations include introduction of new things or methods utilizing information and communication technologies (ICT) for health. Examples 
include innovations in treating patients, conducting research, educating the health workforce, tracking diseases and monitoring public health.
11 IMMR is the electronic indoor morbidity and mortality report.
12  Institutional data/information security strategies are well deﬁ ned health institution-wide strategies and responsibilities, for protecting the conﬁ dentiali-
ty, integrity, and availability of the health information assets that are accessed, managed, and/or controlled by the particular heath institution. Information 
assets addressed shall include data, information systems, computers, network devices, as well as documents and verbally communicated information.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017.06.15
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA  - 15.06.2017
25A
Broad Policy Ob-
jectives
Key Performance Indi-
cators
Deﬁ nitions Frequency Data 
source
6. To ensure 
sustainability 
of all health 
information 
systems. 
Percentage of health 
districts which 
have at least one 
functional computer 
maintenance unit
13.
Percentage of health districts 
which have at least one 
functional computer maintenance 
unit out of total number of health 
districts of Sri Lanka.
Annual Health 
facility/ 
eHealth 
survey
13  A functional computer maintenance unit shall be the centre for computer hardware, networking and software maintenance and upgrades. This unit shall 
ensure smooth functioning of all computer based systems and networks through; 1. hardware repair services which include; routine and scheduled system 
checks, hardware, network and wireless troubleshooting, full range of on-site and off-site  hardware repairs for out-of-warranty hardware  & urgent repairs 
and upgrading as required; 2. software repair services which include; operating system and software installation, virus, spyware & adware scanning, removal 
and disaster assessment &recovery.
10 - 1078
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.