

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
413
413
¡â¤ 1 ,497 _ 2007  ˜æ˘œ 11 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .05.11
No. 1,497 – FRIDAY ,  MAY 11, 2007
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 416
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 419
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 18th May, 2007 should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 04th May, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B._ Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 1,496 of 04.05.2007 was not Published.
             Quarterly statement of Book for Oct. – December 2001 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
             A List of Jurors has been published in Part VI of this Gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
414
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
415
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject or
a part thereof ;
(ii)Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one
year or two years ;
(iv)Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi)Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over his
action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be subject
to the supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor,
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the Examination
as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they should act in
accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement of
a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an hour
from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come late for
practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act
with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall. A
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with
any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a member of the
Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate to communicate
with another, prior permission must be obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number and
his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another candidate’s
index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is considered as
an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing an index number
that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should not
write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other place.
Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should
be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer script.
(Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written inside the
Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has been answered
twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. Failure to abide
by these requirements may be considered as an attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if the work
of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another candidate in
concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of
the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property of
the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to be
considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with him or
near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet of
paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor should
any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s boxes of
colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file cover, card
board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought into the
Examination hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination hall.
Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is bound to declare
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be considered
as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of any
another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another Candidate
and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. Every
completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on which the
answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be strewn all over
the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/she
shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his assistant.
He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well as before re-
entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards,
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are also
such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their
own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the
Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each paper. If
you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination hall, make inquiries
on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility to
sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get your
doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the subject
being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce
identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature is liable to
be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into the
Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor and
arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination
concludes.
(iv)Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper,
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those
issued at the Examination hall should be used for answering questions. Excess
paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good condition. When
log tables are supplied they should be used with care and left on the desk
when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your
index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper used.
Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  line after
the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full question
leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved for
the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your answers
correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working of
the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be accurate
and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if reference
must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram should be
drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure to do
so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an absentee
for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to a peon or
an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
416
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY OF SOCIAL SERVICES AND SOCIAL
WELFARE
Sri Lanka Social Security Board
V ACANCIES
1. POST: Assistant General Manager (Operations)- III
Age Limit .– Between 30 to 45 years (The above age limit does
not apply to Government Employees)
Educational Qualifications/ Professional and other qualifications:
1. A degree from a recognized University with 10 years
Experience in the respective field,
or
2. An officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative  Service or Sri
Lanka Planning Service II/III with a minimum of 5 years
experience,
or
3. An officer of Sri Lanka Social Security Board with 6 years
experience in the allied field and an officer in Grade IV .
Salary scale and increments.–  JM 1-1-Rs. 20,490-10x325-18x475
- Rs.32,290 per month.
2. POST:  Internal Audit - III
Age Limit .– Between 30 to 45 years (The above age limit does
not apply to Government Employees).
Educational Qualifications and  Professional  qualifications:
1. After successfuly completing and receiving the Certificate
of Part II of the Sri Lanka Institute of Chartered Accounts/
Sri Lanka Institute of Management Accountants, after
obtaining a Degree from a recognized University in
Business Management/Accounts/Commerce and 5 years
experience in Audit, work,
or
2. An officer of the Sri Lanka Audit  Service Class II/I or
II/II with a minimum of 6 years experience in the field of
Audit,
or
3. An officer in Grade IV of Sri Lanka Social  Security Board
with 06 years experience in the Audit Duties.
Salary scale and increments.– Rs. 20,490-10x325-18x475-
Rs.32,290 per month.
3. POST :  District Co-ordinating Officer (Trincomalee, Mannar,
Kilinochchi, Mullaitivu)
Educational Qualifications/ Professional and other qualifications:
1. A degree from a recognized University in (Commerce/
Management/Economics),
or
2. An officer of the Government or Corporation with 6 years
experience in Social Service/Welfare Rehabilitation or in an
allied field,
or
3. An Officer in Grade V of Sri Lanka Social Security Board
with 5 year experience.
Salary Scale and Increments.– MA3 –2006 Rs. 15,240-10x185-
4x210 – 15x290-7x320–Rs.24,520 per month.
4. POST : Manager (Research and Development) IV
Age Limit.–  Between 25 - 45 (The upper age limit does not apply
to officers in the Government Service/Local  Government Service
Corporations or Boards)
Educational Qualifications.– An Honours Degree from a recog-
nized University; Experience in research and development will be
considered as an additional qualification.
Professional and other Qualifications. Use of Computer will be
considered as an additional Qualification.
Salary Scale.– MA3 –2006 Rs. 15,240-10x185-4x210x15x290-
7x320x-24,520 per month.
5. POST :  Manager (Policy Service) - IV
Age Limit.–  Between 25 - 45 (The upper age limit does not apply
to officers in the Government Service/Local  Government Service
Corporations or Boards)
Educational Qualifications:
1. A Degree from a recognized University with 03 years
experience in the allied field,
or
An officer Class I of Government/Corporation Service
with a minimum of 10 years service,
or
An Officer in Service of Sri Lanka Social Security Board
with a minimum of 6 years experience or an officer in
Grade VI with 10 years experience
Professional and other Qualifications.– Knowledge of Computer
will be considered as special experience.
Salary Scale.– MA3 – Rs. 15,240-10x185-4x210x15x290-7x320x-
Rs. 24,520 per month.
6. POST : Audit Officer - IV
Age Limit:  Between 25 - 45 years  (The upper age limit does not
apply to Government officers).

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
417
Educational Qualifications and Experience:
1. A Degree from a recognized University in Business Man-
agement, Accounts,
or
A Degree in Commerce and a minimum of one year experience
in Audit work in the Government or Private Sector,
2. A Class One officer in General Clerical Service with 10
years experience in Audit work,
or
An officer in VI of Sri Lanka Social Security Board with 06
years experience in Audit Work or field of accounts.
Salary Scale.– MA3 – Rs. 15,240-10x185-4x210 –15x290-
7x320x-Rs. 24,520 per month.
7. POST : Independent Sales Promotion Manager (Colombo
District)
Age Limit:  Should be over 21 years of age.
Educational /Professional and  other Qualifications.– Being in
the service at present as a Sales Promotion Officer in Insurance Bank
Financial Company or any other service providing institution. Being
a Certificate / Cup or awards winner for achieving higher sales targets
over the past 2 years. Should be in possession of own transportation
facilities, professional qualifications on sales or marketing. Being
well conversant  in Sinhala and English languages. Ability to speak
Tamil language will be an added qualification. It is an essential
qualification to possess computer literacy.
Monthly emolument: An emolument not less than Rs. 25,000 will
be paid.
8. POST : Personal  Assistant - V
Age Limit.–  Between 21 - 45 years (The upper age limit does not
apply to this officers Government/Local Government/Corporations
or Boards Service).
Educational Qualifications / Professional Qualifications and other
Qualification:
1. A Pass at the G.C.E. Advanced Level Examination in 3
subjects and completion of 01 year training in Computer
Technology,
or
2. An officer of the Government Clerical Service Grade I,
or
3. An Officer of the Sri Lanka Social Security Board in Grade
VI with 06 year experience,
4. Knowledge of the Pension Schemes of Sri Lanka Social
Security Board will be considered as a special qualification.
Salary Scale.– MA1-1  Rs. 13,320-10x120-7x140-4x210-20x290-
Rs. 22,140 per month.
9. POST : Receptionist/Telephone Operator - VI
Age Limit.–  Between 18 - 45 Years (The upper age limit does not
apply to Government employees).
Educational Qualification and experience:
1. Pass at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) with 4 credit passes
including Sinhala / English/ Tamil and Mathematics and in
6 subjects, should be able to converse in English well and
with 03 year experience as a Receptionist,
or
2. 03 years experience in Government Stenographer Services,
3. Knowledge of the Pension Schemes of Sri Lanka Social
Security Board will be considered as a special qualification.
Salary Scale.–MA1-1 – 2006 Rs. 13,320-10x120-7x140-4x210-
20x290-Rs.22,140 per month.
10. POST : Clerk - VI
Age Limit:  Between 18 - 45 years (The age limit does not apply to
Government employees)
Educational Qualification and experience:
1. Pass at the G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) Examination with 4
Credit Passes including Sinhala / English/ Tamil, Mathematics
and in 6 subjects and 3 years experience in Clerical Ser-
vice, knowledge of Computer will be considered as an addi-
tional Qualification,
or
2. Employees of Sri Lanka Social Security Board in Grade
VII/VIII who have minimum Qualification as 1. above.
3. Knowledge of the Pension Schemes of Sri Lanka Social
Security Board will be considered as a special qualification.
Salary Scale.– MA1-1 – 2006 Rs. 13,320-10x120-7x140-4x210-
20x290-Rs.22,140 per month.
11. POST :  Typist (Tamil)  - VI
Age Limit.–  Between 21 - 45 years (The upper age limit does not
apply to those who are in the Public Service)
Educational Qualifications and experience:
G.C.E. (Ordinary Level) in at least six subjects with four
Credit passes including Tamil in not more than two sittings
and a certificate in typing with at least three years of
relevant experience,
or
2. Officer of the Government Typists' Service with at least
three years of experience,
4. Knowledge of the Pension Schemes of Sri Lanka Social
Security Board will be considered as a special qualification.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
418
Salary Scale.– MA1-1- 2006– Rs. 13,320-10x120-7x140-4x210-
20x290-Rs. 22,140 per month.
The Applicants in the Government/Corporations/Boards should
forward their applications through the respective Head of the
Department. A complete Bio Data along with photocopies of relevant
certificates should be send under Registered Post addressed to the
Chairman with in 10 days from the date of this advertisement stating
the Post applied for on the top left hand corner of the envelope.
Chairman,
Sri Lanka Social Security Board.
Sri Lanka Social Security Board,
No. 150A, Nawala Road,
Nugegoda.
05-143
MINISTRY OF SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Post of Data Entry Operator
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitable candidates for the post
of Data Entry Operator under the “vidatha” Programme for the
transfer of technology of the Ministry of Science and Technology.
The No. of vacancies existing is 200.
1. Age limit .– should be above 18 years and not more than 45
years
2. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 12,920-120x10-140x11-210x10-Rs. 20,660
(P. A. Circular 6/2006-MN-1-2006).
3. Method of recruitment.– Through a Structural interview
4. Educational qualifications.–
(a) Should have passed 06 subjects in the G. C. E. (O/L)
examination with 05 Credit Passes including Credit Passes
for Sinhala/Tamil or Literature, Mathematics, English and
Chemistry, Biology/Physics in not more than two sittings.
(Should have passed 05 Subjects in the first Sitting),
or
(b) Should have passed 06 Subjects in the G. C. E. (O/L)
examination with 05 Credits Passes including Credits
Passes for Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil language, Science
& English language, in not more than two sittings (Should
have passed 05 subjects in the first Sitting),
or
(c) Should have passed 06 Subjects in the G. C. E. (O/L)
examination with A or B Passes for 05 Subjects including
first language, Mathematics, Science and English in not
more than two sittings.
(Should have passed 05 Subjects in the first Sitting).
Note.–Priority will be given to those who have passed En-
glish Typing as a subject at the above examination and to
those who have more experience in Computer Data Enter-
ing.
5. Professional knowledge & Skills :
(a) Should have followed a computer course of not under 6
months duration at a recognized institution. This Course
should include word processing, Spread Sheet Data Base,
Operating System which are currently in use
and
(b) should posses 2 years experience as a Data Entry Opera-
tor at a Government or other recognized institution.
6. Conditions of Engagement.– This post is permanent and
pensionable. Should obtain the membership of the widows & or-
phans Pension Scheme from the date of appointment.
7. Other Qualifications :
I. Applicant Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
II. The applicant must be of sound health and should bear an
excellent moral character.
8. Method of application.–Applications prepared as per the
specimen form attached hereto should be sent together with photo-
copies of self certified certificates by registered post to the Secretary,
Ministry of Science and Technology, No. 408, Galle Road, Kollupitiya,
Colombo 03 to reach him on or before 25.05.2007. The top left hand
corner of the envelope containing the application should be written
“Application for the Computer Data Entry Operator”. The
ministry will not be responsible for any applications received late or
lost in post.
A. N. R. A
MARATUNGA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Science and Technology.
Ministry of Science and Technology,
No. 561/3, Elvitigala Mawatha,
Narahenpita.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
for office use only
1. Post applied for :  Computer Data Entry Operator
2. I. Applicants Name in full :————.
II. Name with initials :————.
3. National Identity Card No. :
4. I.  Date of Birth :
II. Age as at 31.03.2007 :
Year Month Date
Years Months Dates

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
419
5. I. District of Permanent residence :————.
II. Divisional Secretary's Division of permanent residence
:————.
III. Permanent Address :————.
IV . Temporary Address :————.
6. I. Race :————.
II. Whether a Sri Lankan Citizen :————.
III.  If the Citizenship was obtained by registration the
registration No. :————.
7. Sex :
(Mark "3"  in the appropriate box)
8. Civil Status :
(Mark "3"  in the appropriate box)
9. Educational Qualifications :
Name of the year Subjects Pass
Examination Passed Obtained
10. Professional knowledge & Skills :————.
11. If Selected, the Districts you prefer to work in :————.
12. Name 03 divisional Secretary's divisions you prefer to work in
if selected :————.
13. Certificate of the applicant :
I,................................................................hereby certify that the
particulars furnished by me in this application are true & accurate.
Also that I have not been terminated nor made to retire on inefficiency
as a merciful alternative nor been considered as have vacated my
post. I am also aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification if found before
the selection or dismissal if found after selection without any
compensation.
————,
Signature of applicant.
Date :————.
The certificate of the head of Department if the applicant is a
government Servant.
I forward the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................
......................................... I here by Certify that the candidate is
serving at the Ministry/Department/Divisional Secretariat of
...............................................as a temporary/casual employee and if
selected for this post he/she could be/not be released from Service.
Date :————. ————,
Signature of the head of Department
(Place the Official Seal)
05-208
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF LAND  AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
Sri Lanka Survey Department
ANNUAL EXAMINATION FOR ISSUE OF SURVEYOR
GENERAL’S LICENCE IN SURVEYING AND
LEVELLING - 2007
THE above annual examination will be held in two parts, written and
practical.
The written examination will begin on 16th June, 2007  and the
practical examination will commence on 15th August, 2007. Only
candidates who have passed the written examination or exempted
from same are allowed to sit for the practical examination.
02. The written examination will be held in Colombo only and the
practical examination will be held at the  Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa or in Colombo.
According to the Paragraph 25(2)(b)(iv) of Survey Act No. 17 of
2002.10.04, only candidates who may have sat that examination at
least once prior to the commencement of this Act are allowed to sit
for this examination. New candidates are not  allowed to sit for this
examination.
further this examination will not be conducted by the Surveyor
General after year 2007.
03 (a). to enter the examination applications should be made on
the prescribed form obtainable  from Head Quarters Branch, Surveyor
General’s Office, Colombo 5 or Examination Branch, Institute of
Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa and completed applications
should be sent under registered cover addressed to “Superintendent
of Surveys, Examination Branch, Institute of Surveying  and Mapping,
Diyatalawa”. The envelope should be labelled as “ Annual
Examination for issue of Surreyor General's licence” on the top left
hand corner of The envelope to reach on or before 31st May, 2007.
Female Male
Married Unmarried

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
420
(b) The copies of the following certificates must be attached to the
application.
(i) The Senior School Certificate (English) or General
Certificates of Education (Ordinary Level) with a pass in
Mathematics, English language, Sinhala/Tamil Language
and three other subjects, the six subjects being passed in
not more than two sittings or any other higher examination.
(ii)Certificate  to show that the candidate has studied
Surveying or Levelling or both Surveying and Levelling at
the Sri Lanka Technical College or under duly Licensed
Surveyor, Levellor or Surveyor and Leveller, for a period
of at least one year.
Note : Originals of certificate are required to be produced
later.
04. Candidate must pay the following fees to the surveyor General
before the date of closing entries, viz. 31st May, 2007.
(i)Written Examination Rs.  cts
Admission fee 75
For subjects, English, Arithmetic and
Algebra, Geometry and Trigonometry 150
For Surveying 75
For Levelling 75
(ii)Practical Examination : Rs.  cts
Admission fee 75
For Surveying 525
For levelling 525
Payment can be made by cash to the Surveyor General’s Office,
Colombo 5 or Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa or
by the money orders should be made payable to the “Director
Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa”.
Attached the original  receipt if paid to the Surveyor General’s
Office or to the Institute of Surveying  and Mapping or the original
money order if paid by money order.
(Please do not paste the receipt or money order to application).
Remittance by stamps and cheques will not be accepted.
Note : Those who are not yet eligible to sit for the practical
examination, may pay the required fees according to the above 4 (II),
for the practical examination after passing this year’s written
examination and before the date of the practical examination (see
para 8).
05. The subjects of the written examination will be as follows :-
(i) English - One paper.–
An exercise in composition and questions set to test the
candidate’s knowledge and command of English.
(ii)Arithmetic and Algebra.– One Paper :
Arithmetic - The principals and processes of arithmetic
applied to whole numbers and vulgar and decimal fractions.
The metric system. Approximations to specified degrees
of accuracy. Contracted methods of multiplications and
division of decimals, ratio and proportion, percentage,
averages, practical applications of Arithmetic.
Algebra - Symbolical expression of general results in
Arithmetic, Algebra laws and their application ; factors of
simple,  binomial or quadratic expression ; equations of
the first or second degree and problems. leading thereto ;
square root. Graphs of simple rational integral algebraic
functions ;
Arithmetical and harmonical progression. Geometrical
progression. Theory of indices, logarithms and the use of
logarithmic tables. Binomial theorem for a positive integral
index.
(iii)Geometry and Trigonometry - One paper
Geometry - The subjects of Euclid, I - IV , with simple
deductions, including easy loci and the areas of triangles
and parallelograms, of which the bases and altitudes are
given commensurable length, (All proofs of geometrical
theorems must be geometrical, Eucilid’s proofs will not be
insisted upon.) Similar figures. Mensuration of the circle.
Mensuration of the simple solid bodies namely the cube,
the rectangular block, the tetrahedron, the sphere, the
cylinder, the wedger,  pyramid and the cone.
Trigonometry - Upto and including the solution of triangles
together with the practical solution of  triangles and
applications and numerical examples involving the use of
the logarithmic and other tables.
(iv)Surveying - One Paper :
Chain Surveying the transit and Cradle theodolite their use
and their adjustments. Theodolites and compass traverses
including the use of plane rectangular co-ordinates, curve
ranging, substance methods and tacheometry. Plane table
surveying. Plane triangulation and determination of azimuth
by astronomical observations.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
421
(v) Levelling - One Paper :
The Dumpy, Y and Cooke’s reversible level, their use and
their adjustments. The practice and theory of levelling.
Computation of earthwork, Road and railway surveys and setting
out surveys for water supply works. Contours and the calculation
of contents therefrom.
Qestion papers on subjects (ii) - (v) above will be set in Sinhala,
Tamil and English media. candidates may answer them in any one
medium.
06. The percentage of marks required for a pass in the written
examination will be in question papers (i), (ii) and (iii) 40 percent in
each question paper and 50 percent in aggregate ; in question papers
(iv) and (v) 60 percent.
07. Candidates in Surveying only will be required to pass in
question papers (i) - (iv) inclusive ;  and candidates in Levelling only
in question papers (i) - (iii) inclusive and question paper (v). Candidates
in both Surveying and Levelling will be required to pass in question
papers (i) - (v) inclusive.
08. Candidates who pass the written examination will be duly
notified of the date, time and place of the practical examination
which will be set out on the Syllabuses in Surveying and Levelling of
the written examination. To pass the practical examination the
candidates must carry out and complete the practical tasks assigned
to them to the full satisfaction of the Examiners.
09. Candidates should adhere to the dates fix for their practical
examination as no laternative dates will be fix under any circumstances
Candidates will work in the field between hours fixed by examiner,
and must produce instruments in good order. Defects in instruments
will not be accepted as an excuse for bad work. Candidates found to
be in communication with any one during examination hours will be
disqualified.
10. All candidates must provide their own instruments, plummets,
poles, pickets, drawing boards,  drawing materials, stationery,
labourers and no assistance in providing requirements will be given
in any way either at the written examination or the practical
examination.
11. No, application will be accepted after 31st May, 2007.
12. Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the
satisfaction of the Supervisor by the production of any one of
following documents :-
(a) An identity card issued by the Registrar of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport ;
MINISTRY OF LAND AND LAND DEVELOPMENT
SRI LANKA SURVEY DEPARTMENT
Examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s
Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman - 2007
THE examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s certificate to
practice as an Authorized Draughtsman will be held in Colombo.
The Examination will be in two parts :
Part I - Preparation of Co-ordinate Sheet
Part II - Plan work.
2. Part I of the exmination will be held on 7th July, 2007 and Part II
on 08 th and 09th September, 2007. Candidates who fail Part I will not
be allowed to sit for Part II. Candidates should pass both Part I and
Part II at the same examination to qualify for the award of the surveyor
General’s Certificate as Authorized Draughtsman.
3. Candidates are required to satisfy me that :-
(a) They can prepare a co-ordinate sheet from field notes and
co-ordinate a survey traverse ;
(b) They can plot a plan accurately from field notes, both by
protractor and from co-ordinates and compute extents
correctly.
(c) Any certificate, licence or other document embodying a
photograph of the holder and issued within three years of
the date of the examination on the authority of a
Government Department.
13. No Candidates shall be examined unless he/she furnishes proof
of his/her identity as required.
14. Fees once deposited will neither be refunded nor allowed to be
utilised for subsequent examination, under any circumstances.
15. All communications should be addressed to Superintendent
of Surveys, Examinations Branch, Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa and not to me personally.
B. J. P. M
ENDIS ,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General’s Office,
P. O. Box 506, Kirula Road,
Colombo 05.
18th April 2007.
05-104

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
422
4. Applications for the examination must be prepared as per
specimen below and sent under registered post to “Superintendent of
Surveys (Examination), Institute of Surveying  and Mapping,
Diyatalawa” accompanied by a fee of Rs.300 Payment by cash may
be made to the Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa or
by Money orders should be made payable to the “Director, Institute
of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa” and post office Diyatalawa.
Attach the original receipt or the original money order. (Please do not
paste the receipt or money order to the application). Remittance by
stamps and cheque will not be accepted. The envelope should be
labeled as “Examination for the Issue of Surveyor General’s Certificate
as Authorized Draughtsman - 2007” on the top left hand corner.
5. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
6. Applications closing on 12th June, 2007. Applications  will not
be accepted after that.
7. Drawing papers and co-ordinate sheets will be supplied at the
examination hall. However, candidates should bring their own drawing
instruments, mathematical tables for computation of coordinates
and all other material they require. Use of non -programmable
scientific calculators will be allowed with the permission of the
Supervisor at the examination hall.
8 (i) Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the satisfactions
of the Supervisor by the production of any one of the following
documents :
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
registration of persons ;
(b) A Valid Passport ;
(c) Any certificate, license or other document which embodies
a photograph  of the holder and issued within three years
of the date of examination on the authority of a Government
Department ;
(ii) No candidate for the examination shall be entitled to be
examined unless he/she furnished proof of his/her identity
required by paragraph 8 (i).
9. This exmination will be held under the metric system.
B. J. P. M
ENDIS ,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General’s Office,
P. O. Box 506, Colombo 05,
18th April, 2007.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
Sri Lanka Survey Department
EXAMINA TION  FOR  THE  ISSUE  OF  SURVEYOR  GENERAL ’S CERTIFICA TE AS
A UTHORIZED  DRAUGHTSMAN  - 2007
Index No :
(For office use)
(a) (i) Name with initials :- Mr./Mrs./Miss :———.
(ii)Names denoted by initials :———.
(b) Sex :———.
(c) Designation :———.
(d) Official address :———.
(e) Permanent address :———.
(f) Date of birth  :———.
(g) Educational qualifications :———.
(h) Medium through which the candidate proposed to sit
this examination  : Sinhala/Tamil/English :———.
(i) Fees Paid :———.
(Rs.): ………………………
(j) Money Order/Receipt No. :———.
Office of Issue :———.
Date :———.
(Attach  the  original  receipt  if paid to Institute of
Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa or the original
money order if paid by money order.)
I do hereby certify that above details are true and correct.
———.
Signature of Applicant.
Date :———.
05-105

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
423
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED A T TECHNICAL COLLEGES — 2007/2008
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses conducted in Technical Colleges appearing in this Gazette Notification.
Students for admission will be selected from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit, and the place available in each
course.
02.  The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance with the
“ Specimen Application Form ” given in this Notification. As specified in item 12 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10 stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Principal of the respective Technical College to which admission is sought to reach him on or before 15.06.2007
Applicants are advised not to submit applications to this Department or to any officer’s official or personal addresses.
03.  The top left-hand corner of the envelope should be marked with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
    e.g.—National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship Course  ETC 05.
04.  Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.
05.  Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully with the Name and Code Number of the Course, College in which
the course to be followed and the Medium of Instruction of the Course correctly. Requests made subsequently to change the College, Course
or Medium of instruction will not be considered under any circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged from all those following Part Time and evening Courses in the following manner :
(i) Part-Time/Evening Certificate Courses (more than one year) Rs. 2,000 per year ;
(ii)Part-Time/Evening one year and Short Term Courses less than one year Rs. 1,500 per course.
07.  Attention of all candidates is invited to the Schedule of Courses appended at the end of this Notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges where the courses are conducted and medium of instruction. The
addresses of Technical Colleges where the courses are available are shown in the List of Technical Colleges.
08.  A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these colleges should :—
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii)have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude test and/or an interview.
10.  Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce
the necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the interview will be deemed disqualified.
11.  Subject to a maximum of Rs. 450 a month a stipend  of Rs. 20 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.
About 600 Full Time Day Course students from low income families are paid  a bursary of Rs. 2,500 per year.
12.  The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that
have been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely dealt with.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using separate application forms.
D
R . H. L. OBEYESEKERA ,
Director-General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P.O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
424
LIST OF  TECHNICAL    COLLEGES
Serial
No. Technical College Address District
01 Sri Lanka Technical College Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle Technical College Kaluwella, Galle G alle
03 Kandy Technical College Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna Technical College Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla Technical College Greenland Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
07 Anuradhapura Technical College New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
08 Kurunegala Technical College Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
09 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
10 Ampara Hardy Technical College Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
11 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
12 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
13 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
14 Ratnapura Technical College Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayatilaka Mawatha, Nuwara Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta, Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College Wandaduwa Station Road, Balapitiya, G alle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College Wewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee Technical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M.C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College Akkaraipattu Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
SPECIMEN   APPLICATION   FORM
APPLICATION  FOR  ADMISSION  TO  TECHNICAL  COLLEGES — ACADEMIC YEAR  2007/2008
For Official use only                        
(Applications must be directed to the Principal of the relevant Technical College. Addresses of Technical Colleges
are given in the List of Technical Colleges)
(Each Course applied for should be in a separate application)
01. Name of the Technical College/Training Centre : ———————.
02. Name of the Course : ———————. (Full Time Day/Evening/Part Time)
Medium : ———————. Code No. : ———————.
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials : ———————.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
425
04. Names indicated by Initials : ———————.
05. Permanent Address : ———————.
06. National Identity Card No. : ———————.
07. District : ———————. Electorate : ———————.
Grama Niladhari Division : ———————.
08. Date of Birth : ———————.
Age : as at 01.07.2007 :
Years : ——————— , Months : ——————— , Days : ——————— .
09. Male/Female : ———————.
10. Educational Qualifications :
  (A) G.C.E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts) :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
  (B) G.C.E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G.C.E. (A/L) sittings : ———————.
(D) Highest Grade/Year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
Grade : ———————. Year : ———————.
11. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
(To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement)
11.1 Applicant’s Name : ———————.
11.2 Post held at present and the Date of Appointment to the Post : ———————.
If self employed, the type of employment : ———————.
11.3 Work place and its address : ———————.
11.4 Employee Provident Fund No. : ———————.
Employee Trust Fund No. : ———————.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office.
11.5 Name of the Employer : ———————.
11.6 Designation : ———————.
11.7 Signature : ———————. Official Seal :
11.8 Date : ———————.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
426
    12. Applicant’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge, and I have obtained the qualifications
required for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Technical Colleges and to accept the decision of
the Director-General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
———————.
Applicant’s Signature.
Date : ———————.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10
should be affixed here and
cancelled by signing on it.
THE SCHEDULE OF COURSES CONDUCTED IN TECHNICAL COLLEGES — 2007/2008
Engineering Technician Studies Courses
FULL  TIME  COURSES
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available and Medium
01 ETB03 National Diploma in 1. Should possess at least Six subjects including Sinhala Medium :
  Agriculture Agriculture, with four Credit passes in one sitting, Dambulla, Kuliyapitiya
at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination. The four Credit
Full Time Day passes should be for the following subjects :
  Two Years First Language, Mathematics, Science and Social
  Studies or any of the following subjects:
  Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry,
    Food Science and Food Technology, Fresh Water
    (Inland), Bio Resource Technology, Oceanic
    (Marine), Bio Resource Technology ; or
2. Should possess at least Three Ordinary passes in
one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination. The
subjects should be any three of the following :
Biology, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry, Physics,
Agriculture.
3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.07.2007.
02 ETC01 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notEnglish Medium :
  Industrial Technicians more than two sittings with four Credit passes Kandy, Ratmalana
  (Civil Engineering) including Science, Mathematics, Medium
Language and English Language at least five (5)
Full Time Day subjects should be passed in one sitting ; or
  Two Years 2. Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ; or
3. Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Methematics at G.C.E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
4. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.07.2007.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
427
03 ETC02 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notEnglish Medium :
  Industrial Technicians more than two sittings with four Credit passes Ratmalana, Kandy
  (Electrical & Electronic including Science, Mathematics, Medium
  Engineering) Language and English Language at least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ; or
Full Time Day 2. Merit pass in any National Certificate in
  Two Years Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ; or
3. Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
4. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.07.2007.
04 ETC03 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notEnglish Medium :
Industrial Technicians more than two sittings with four Credit passes Ratmalana, Kandy
(Mechanical including Science, Mathematics, Medium
Engineering) Language and English Language at least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ; or
Full Time Day 2. Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Two Years Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ; or
3. Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G.C.E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude Test
4. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.07.2007.
05 ETC05 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in notSinhala Medium :
Engineering more than two sittings. Ampara, Anuradhapura,
Draughtsmanship The Six (6) subjects should be : Badulla, Balapitiya,
 (a) Sinhala/Tamil/English ;     Bandarawela, Dambulla,
Full Time Day  ( b) Mathematics and Science ;     Galle, Gampaha, Hasalaka,
One Year  ( c) Three other subjects     Homagama, Maradana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on     Ratmalana, Kalutara,
01.07.2007.     Kandy, Matale,
    Nuwara-Eliya, Matara,
  Beliatta, Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
 Polonnaruwa,
    Monaragala,Ratnapura,
Anamaduwa, Kegalle,
 Warakapola
Tamil Medium :
  Maradana, Jaffna,
  Batticaloa, Vavuniya,
  Sammanthurai,
  Trincomalee
06 ETB02 National Diploma in 1. Passes in Six (6) subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) English Medium :
  Jewellery Design and examination in not more than two sittings. Maradana
  Manufacture (Preference will be given to candiates who have
passed in Art, Metal Work, Wood Work, Maths
Full Time Day and English) and
  Two Years Passes in Two (02) subjects at the  G.C.E. (A/L)
Examination.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.07.2007.
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available and Medium

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
428
07 ETC 07 National Certificate in 1. Passes in Four (4) subjects at G.C.E. (O/L) Sinhala Medium :
  Jewellery Manufacture Examination in one sitting ; or should have passed Maradana, Beliatta
  Year 9 and experience in the relevant field.
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Tamil Medium :
Full Time Day 01.07.2007 Batticaloa
  One Year
08 ECC 40  Certificate in 1. Should have passed G.C.E. (O/L) Examination ; Sinhala Medium :
Landscaping for Junior or Galle, Kandy,
Supervisors Have passed the National Certificate in Kegalle,
Landscaping Technology crafts level III course Kurunegala
conducted in any of the V ocational Training
Full Time Day Centres attached to VTA
One year 2. Age should be between 18 and 35 years as on
01.07.2007. Preference will be given to those below
25 years.
09 ETC 04 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Technology four (04) credit passes including Science, Mathematics Galle, Badulla,
(Quantity Surveying) and Medium Language in one sitting. Should Anuradhapura, Kurunegala,
have at least an Ordinary Pass for English Language. Matara, Ratnapura,
Preference will be given to the candidates those Warakapola, Beliatta,
Full Time Day who have followed Pure Maths/Applied Maths or Dambulla, Gampaha,
One year Combined Maths and/or a Hard Technology subject W eerawila
in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.07.2007 English Medium :
Kandy, Kegalle, Ratmalana
Jaffna, Batticaloa
PART  TIME  COURSES
10 ETC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Civil not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
Engineering) Six (06) subjects should be : Homagama, Kalutara,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language K andy, Hasalaka,
Part Time Three years ( b) Mathematics and Science Dambulla, Nuwara
(c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualifications Eliya, Galle, Balapitiya
(Restricted to those Matara, Beliatta,
employed in the 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007. Ampara, Gampaha,
relevant field) Badulla,
Kurunegala,
Anuradhapura,
Monaragala,
Ratnapura,
Kegalle, Warakapola,
Embilipitiya,
Polonnaruwa
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is available and Medium

<!-- page 17 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
429
11 ETC 02.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Electrical not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
and Electronic Six (06) subjects should be : Homagama, Kalutara,
Engineering) ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language K andy, Matara,
(b) Mathematics and Science Kurunegala,
Part Time Three years ( c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualification ; Anuradhapura,
  or Badulla, Ratnapura,
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Kegalle, Warakapola,
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 years - Electrician Gampaha, Balapitiya,
relevant field) course or Radio, TV and Electronics course conducted Beliatta
at Technical Colleges under the Department of
Technical Education and Training Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007 Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya
English Medium :
Maradana
12 ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Mechanical not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
Engineering) Six (06) subjects should be :- Homagama, Kandy,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Galle, Badulla,
(b) Mathematics and Science Matara, Kegalle,
Part Time Three years ( c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualifications ; Kurunegala, Warakapola,
  or Beliatta, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Rathnapura
employed in the Craft Practice Full time Day 2 years - Motor Vehicle
relevant field) Mechanic/ General Machinist/Fitter Machinist Course
conducted at Technical Colleges under the Department
of  Technical Education and Training Tamil Medium :
Jaffna
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007
13 ETC 04.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects inSinhala Medium :
Technology (Quantity not more than two sittings. Maradana, Ratmalana,
Surveying) Six (06) subjects should be : Homagama, Kandy,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Galle, Matara, Beliatta,
(b) Mathematics and Science Kalutara, Trincomalee,
Part Time Three years ( c) Three other subjects, or equivalent qualifications.Kurunegala, Badulla,
Anuradhapura, Kegalle
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007 Warakapola,
employed in the Balapitiya,
relevant field) Gampaha, Rathnapura
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Batticaloa, V avuniya,
Akkaraipattu
English Medium :
Maradana
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 18 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
430
Engineering Craft Studies Courses
FULL  TIME  COURSES
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
01 ECC 08 National Certificate in 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
  Engineering Craft Passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana,  Gampaha,
  Practice—Electronic not more than two sittings Kalutara, Hasalaka,
  2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Galle, Kandy, Beliatta,
01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given Polonnaruwa,
Full Time day preference Anuradhapura,
  Two years Bandarawela, Embilipitiya,
Warakapola, Matara,
Kurunegala, Rathnapura,
Rathmalana, Ampara,
Nuwara-eliya, Kegalle,
Badulla
Tamil Medium :
Trincomalee, Jaffna,
Vavuniya
02 ECC 10 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana, Ratmalana,
Practice-Fitter not more than two sittings Galle, Homagama,
Machinist Kalutara, Kandy,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Nuwara-Eliya, Beliatta,
Full Time Day 01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given Hasalaka, Kuliyapitiya
Two years perference Matara, Anuradhapura,
Bandarawela, Gampaha,
Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya,
Warakapola,
Polonnaruwa, Badulla,
Kegalle, Kurunegala,
Ampara, Rathanapura,
Dambulla
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna
03 ECC 13 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana, Homagama,
Practice-Industrial not more than two sittings ; Embilipitiya, Ratmalana,
Electrician or Hasalaka, Galle,
have passed the House Wiring Course conducted in Nuwara-Eliya, Balapitiya,
Full Time Day any V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Matara, Beliatta, Ampara,
Two years Kandy, Kuliyapitiya,
Polonnaruwa,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Bandarawela, Warakapola,
01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given Trincomalee,Badulla,
perference Kegalle, Anuradhapura,
Kurunegala, Kalutara,
Rathnapura,
Pathadumbara, Dambulla,
Moneragala, Gamapaha.
Tamila Medium :
Vavuniya, Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai, Jaffna,
Batticaloa.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
431
04 ECC 18 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana, Galle,
Practice - Motor not more than two sittings Kalutara, Nuwara-Eliya,
V ehicle Mechanic Matara, Kandy, Beliatta,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Ampara, Badulla,
Full Time Day 01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given Kuliyapitiya,
Two years preference Anuradhpura,
Polonaruwa, Warakapola,
Embilipitiya,
Kegalle, Hasalaka,
Rathnapura, Kurunegala,
Dambulla, Rathmalana,
Homagama, Bandarawela,
Moneragala
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa, Jaffna
Sammanthurai
05 ECC 02 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ; Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or Maradana, Ratmalana,
Practice – Gas and have passed the Welder Course conducted in any of Kalutara, Hasalaka,
Arc Welder the Vocational Training Centre attached to VTA. Dambulla, Nuwara-
Eliya, Matara, Beliatta,
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17  years as on Weerawila, Ampara,
One Year 01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given preference. Trincomalee,
Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
Anuradhapura,
Bandarawela,
Monaragala, Ratnapura,
Embilipitiya, Kegalle,
Badulla, Gampaha,
Homagama,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Warakapola,
Galle, Balapitiya,
Wariyapola, Kandy,
Dehiattakandiya,
Anamaduwa
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Vavuniya
06 ECC 09 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ; Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or Hasalaka, Dambulla,
Practice – Plumber have passed the Plumbing Course conducted in any of Anuradhapura, Nuwara-
the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Eliya, Galle, Beliatta,
Full Time Day Embilipitiya,
One Year 2. Age should not be less than 17  years as on Bandarawela,
01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given preference. Ratnapura,
Kuliyapitiya, Kandy,
Badulla, Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana, Kegalle,
Kurunegala, Kalutara,
Maradana,Warakapola,
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 20 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
432
Dehiattakandiya,
Matara, Homagama
Gampaha.
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
07 ECC 05 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects withSinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics, Science and Medium Ratmalana,Galle,
Practice – Refrigeration Language in not more than two sittings. Beliatta, Kegalle,
and Air Conditioning Anuradhapura, Kandy,
Mechanic 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Maradana, Homagama,
01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given preference. Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Full Time Day Matara, Polonnaruwa,
One Year Bandarawela,
Ratnapura,Embilipitiya
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai
08 ECC 06 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 : Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or Homagama, Kalutara,
Practice – Wood have passed the Carpenter Course conducted in any Galle, Nuwara-Eliya,
Machinist of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Anuradhapura,
Wariyapola, Maradana,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Kandy, Ratmalana,
Full Time Day 01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given preference. Ampara, Hasalaka,
One Year Matara, Beliatta,
Bandarawela,
Ratnapura,
Kuliyapitiya,
Balapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Monaragala, Dambulla,
Warakapola,
Kurunegala,
Embilipitiya, Kegalle,
Polonnaruwa, Badulla
Tamil Medium :
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai, Jaffna
09 ECC 14 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ; Sinhala Medium :
Engineering Craft or Wariyapola, Dambulla,
Practice – Building have passed the Masonry Course conducted in any Anuradhapura, Nuwara-
Craftsman of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Eliya, Beliatta,
Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Bandarawela,
One Year 01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given preference. Ratnapura, Monaragala,
Kuliyapitiya, Badulla,
Polonnaruwa,
Balapitiya, Kegalle,
Kurunegala, Kalutara,
Warakapola, Matara,
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 21 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
433
Maradana,
Homagama,
Dehiattakandiya
Hasalaka, Anamaduwa.
Tamil Medium :
Trincomalee,
Sammanthurai,
Batticaloa, Jaffna
10 ECS 21 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Aluminium Fabrication Maradana, Ratmalana,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Beliatta, Kurunegala,
Full Time Day 01.07.2007. Homagama, Matara,
Six Months Warakapola, Kandy,
Anuradhapura,
Gampaha
11 CBT 06 Certificate in 1. GCE (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in not Sinhala Medium :
Electrical Trade more than two sittings. Wariyapola,
Weerawila, Kalutara,
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Matale, Dehiattakandiya
Six Months 01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given
Preference. Tamil Medium :
V avuniya
12 ECS 26 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Motor Cycle and Scooter Pathadumbara,
Repairing 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Anuradhapura, Matale,
01.07.2007. Kurunegala, Ratmalana,
Full Time Day Dehiattakandiya,
Six Months
Tamil Medium :
Jaffna, Sammanthurai
13 MCC 08 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Footwear Making Ampara, Medagama
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
Full Time Day 01.07.2007. Those under 22 years are given Preference.
One Year
14 CBT 08 Certificate in House 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Hold Electrical Pathadumbara,
Appliances Repairing 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007. Anuradhapura
Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Full Time Day
Six Months
15 CBT 10 Certificate in Building 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Painting Beliatta, Kegalle,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007. Nuwara-Eliya
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
16 CBT 13 Certificate in Machining 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Gampaha
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
One Year Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 22 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
434
17 CBT 14 Certificate in Metal 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Fabrication Ratmalana
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
18 CBT 15 Certificate in Radio, TV 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
& Allied Equipment Maradana
Repairing 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Full Time Day
Six Months
19 CBT 19 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Automobile Painting Kurunegala
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
20 CBT 04 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
Automobile Tinkering Kurunegala
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
Full Time Day Those under 22 years are given Preference.
Six Months
21 MCS 08 Certificate in Furniture 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Wood Carving Kurunegala
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
Six Months
22 ECS 24 Certificate in Foundry 1. G.C.E. (O/L) in Six (06) subjects in not more thanSinhala Medium :
practice two sittings. Kandy
Full Time Day
Six Months 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
PART  TIME  COURSES
23 ECC 33.1 Certificate in Tractor 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Mechanic Anuradhapura
Part Time 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
One Year Tamil Medium :
Jaffna
24 ECC 20.1 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
Maintenance and Anuradhapura
Repairs to Agricultural 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007.
Equipment
Part Time
One Year
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 23 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
435
Business Studies Courses :
FULL  TIME  COURSES
01 BSC 04 National Certificate for 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Accounting Technicians passes in Mathematics, Medium Language Maradana, Kalutara,
Full Time Day in one sitting Homagama, Kandy,
Two years Hasalaka, Dambulla,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Nuwara-Eliya, Galle,
Students who on 01.07.2007 Matara, Beliatta, Balapitiya,
successfully complete. T rincomalee,
this course are eligible Kurunegala, Kuliyapitiya,
to follow the following Anuradhapura, Badulla,
courses, conducted by the Ratnapura, Kegalle,
Sri Lanka Institute of Warakapola, Dehiattakandi
Advanced Technical Polopnnaruwa.
Education
*Higher National Tamil Medium :
Diploma in Accountancy Maradana, Kandy,
*Higher National Diploma Jaffna, Batticaloa,
in Management Sammanthurai,
*National Diploma in Trincomalee, Vavuniya
Business Studies
*National Diploma in
Business & Finance
02 BSC 06 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withEnglish Medium :
Secretarial Practice passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Maradana, Gampaha,
English not more than two sittings. Should have a Credit Kalutara, Homagama,
pass in English. Kandy, Galle, Matara,
Full Time Day Beliatta, Balapitiya,
One Year (i) Competency in spoken & written English Kurunegala, Anuradhapura,
will be considered. Badulla, Warakapola,
Students who successfully (ii)Candidates will have to sit a written test, if so Batticaloa, Kegalle,
complete this course decided by the authorities. Trincomalee, Kuliyapitiya
are eligible to follow the(iii)Female Candidates are preferred
National Diploma in 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
Secretarial Practice 01.07.2007.
Course, conducted by the Preference will be given to those under 22 years.
Sri Lanka Institute of
Advanced Technical
Education
03 BSC13 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Shorthand, passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Maradana, Kalutara,
Typewriting and more than two sittings. Kandy, Dambulla,
Computing—Sinhala Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala. Galle, Kuliyapitiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years 01.07.2007. Beliatta, Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Preference will be given to those under 22 years Moneragala, Trincomalee,
One Year Medagama, Ampara,
Pathadumbara,
Dehiattakandiya,
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 24 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
436
04 BSC14 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) in Six (06) Subjects in not more thanTamil Medium :
Shorthand, two sittings with passes in Medium Language Maradana, Jaffna,
Typewriting and and Mathematics. Batticaloa,
Computing—Tamil Should have a Credit Pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on T rincomalee
Full Time Day 01.07.2007. Preference will be given to those
One year under 22 years.
05 BSC 03 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects withSinhala Medium :
Marketing passess in Mathematics, Medium Language and EnglishKandy, Galle,
Language in one sitting. Matara,
Full Time Day Kurunegala, Ratnapura,
Two years 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on 01.07.2007.Maradana, Kalutara,
Ampara
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Sammanthurai,
Jaffna
English Medium
Maradana
PART TIME COURSES
06 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) in Six (06) subjects in not more thanTamil Medium :
Shorthand, Typewriting two sittings with passes in Medium Language and Jaffna, Sammanthurai,
and Computing – Tamil Mathematics. Should have a Credit Pass for Tamil Batticaloa
Language.
(Restricted to  those who 2.Age should be over 17 years as on 01.07.2007
are engaged in Stenography/
Typing or in an allied field)
Part Time One year
General Studies Courses :
FULL TIME COURSES
01 ESC 01 National Certificate in 1. Passes in Six (06) subjects including English at theEnglish Medium :
English for Commerce, G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in not more than Maradana, Ratmalana,
Industry and Further two sittings. Homagama, Gampaha,
Education Kalutara, Kandy,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Hasalaka, Matale,
Full Time Day 01.07.2007. Nuwara Eliya, Galle,
One Year Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Weerawila, Jaffna,
Students who successfully Batticaloa,Ampara,
complete this course Dehiattakandiya,
are eligible to follow the Sammanthurai,
National Diploma Trincomalee, Kurunegala,
in English Course, Kuliyapitiya,
conducted by the Sri Lanka Anuradhapura,
Institute of Advanced Polonnaruwa, Badulla,
Technical Education Moneragala, Ratnapura,
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium

<!-- page 25 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .05.11
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2007
437
Embilipitiya, Kegalle,
Warakapola, Medagama,
Vavuniya, Bandarawela,
Wariyapola, Akkaraipattu,
Anamaduwa.
02 MCC 12  Certificate in Textile 1. Should have completed Year 10. Sinhala Medium :
and Household Drapery Kuliyapitiya
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007
Full Time Day
One Year
03 MCS 07 Certificate in Hotel 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in Sinhala Medium :
House Keeping not more than two sittings. Dambulla
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007
Six Months Those under 22 years are given Preference
04 MCC 09 National Certificate in 1. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects inJapanese Medium :
Japanese Language not more than two sittings. G alle
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007
One Year Those under 22 years are given Preference.
05 MCS 09 Certificate in Batiks 1. Should have passed Year 9. Sinhala Medium :
and Textile Printing Matale
Full Time Day 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007
Six Months
06 MCS 10 Certificate in Tailoring 1. Should have passed Year 9 Sinhala Medium :
(Ladies/Gents) Ratnapura, Warakapola,
Trincomalee
Full Time Day
Six Months 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007Tamil Medium :
Trincomalee, Sammanthurai
PART TIME COURSES
07 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. Passes in Six (06) Subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L)English Medium :
English for Commerce, Examination in not more than two sittings. Dambulla, Beliatta,
Industry and further (Special consideration will be given to those, employed Warakapola,
Education in a supervisory capacity in an Industrial, Commercial Jaffna, Batticaloa,
or any similar establishment or those who were Sammanthurai, Badulla,
Part Time Two years employed in a similar capacity at an earlier date and Polonnaruwa, Ampara,
those who may qualify for promotion after successfulMoneragala,
completion of the Course) Medagama, V avuniya,
A basic knowledge of English is essential. Ratnapura, Galle, Kandy
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on 01.07.2007
*Note.— Students who follow the eighteen (18) Engineering Craft Studies Courses from No. 03-20 have the opportunity to obtain
National V ocational Qualification Certificate.
05-200
Code Name of Course Admission Qualification Colleges where the Course
No. is Available and Medium
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.