

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs. 13.50  Postage  :  Rs. 7.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  July 14, 2006
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 14th July, 2006]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
PRIV ATE  MEDICAL  INSTITUTIONS
(REGISTRATION)
ACT,  No.  21 OF  2006

<!-- page 2 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
1
Preamble.
Short title and
date of
operation.
[Certified on 14th July, 2006]
L.D. — O. 37/2003.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  REGISTRA TION, REGULA TION , MONITORING
AND  INSPECTION  OF  PRIV ATE MEDICAL  INSTITUTIONS ; AND  TO  FOSTER
THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF , PRIV ATE MEDICAL  INSTITUTIONS ; AND  TO
PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL
THERETO .
WHEREAS it has become necessary for the Government, in
the interest of providing a safe and efficient medical service
to the public, to set out a National Policy in relation to the
provision of medical services through private medical
institutions and to identify the manner in which such services
are to be so provided in order to achieve its objectives :
NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Private Medical
Institutions (Registration) Act, No. 21 of 2006 and shall come
into operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the
“appointed date”)
2. (1) No person shall—
(a) establish or maintain on any specified premises; or
(b) operate or permit any other person to operate,
a Private Medical Institution, except under the authority of a
Certificate of Registration issued in that behalf in terms of
the provisions of section 4 of this Act.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) shall be guilty of an offence.
3. (1) Every application for a Certificate of Registration
shall be made to the Private Health Services Regulatory
Council through the respective Provincial Director of Health
Services in the prescribed form and  shall be accompanied by
the prescribed fee, and all other relevant documents.
Private Medical
Institutions and
persons
operating them
to be registered.
Application for
registration.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
(2) On receipt of the applications under subsection (1),
the Private Health Services Regulatory Council shall where
the Private Medical Institution and premises to which the
relevant application relates satisfies the criteria as may be
prescribed, inform the Provincial Director of Health  Services
of the respective Province that the Council  has no objection
to the registration of such Institution and premises and direct
the respective Provincial Director of Health Services to—
(a) register the Private Medical Institution and its
premises with the Private Health Services Regulatory
Council and register the applicant as the person
registered to maintain such Institution; and
(b) forward to the applicant the Certificate of
Registration in the prescribed form.
(3) A Certificate of Registration granted under this section
shall be valid for such period as shall be specified therein.
(4) A Certificate of Registration shall be renewed on
application being made in that  behalf in the manner specified
in subsection (1), prior to one month of the date of expiry of
such Registration, and on payment of the prescribed renewal
fee.
(5) Fifty per centum of the fees collected by each
Provincial Director of Health Services under this section shall
be remitted to the respective Provincial Council.
(6) The Provincial Director of Health Services of the
Province shall in carrying out his duties, act in compliance
with such guidelines as are prescribed under this Act, relating
to the registration of Private Medical Institutions.
4. (1) Where any Private Medical Institution is being
operated or maintained by any person on any premises
without being registered as required by section 2, the
Provincial Director of Health Services shall inform the Private
Health Services Regulatory Council of such fact and the
Effect of
registering.

<!-- page 4 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
3
Regulatory Council shall thereupon issue a directive to such
Institution to forthwith register such Institution with the
Regulatory Council within such period as shall be specified
in such directive.
(2) Non-compliance with a directive issued by the
Regulatory  Council under subsection (1), shall be an offence
under this Act.
(3) Where any person or institution convicted of an offence
under subsection (2) continues to commit such offence after a
period of one month from the date of such conviction , the
Magistrate  may upon application for a closure order being
made by the Regulatory Council, order the closure of that
Private Medical Institution being maintained on such premises,
until the institution or person convicted complies with the
directive issued by the Council under subsection (1).
5. (1) Any person or body of persons who is on the
appointed date, operating or maintaining a private medical
institution at any premises shall, within three months from
the appointed date, take such steps as are necessary to register
himself and the premises concerned with the Private Health
Services Regulatory Council.
(2) In giving effect the provisions of subsection (1), the
provisions of section 2, section 3 and section 4 of this Act
shall, mutatis mutandis apply, to and in relation thereto.
6. (1) There shall  for the purposes of this Act be
established a Private Health Services Regulatory Council (in
this Act referred to as “the Council”), which shall consist
of —
(a) the following members appointed by the Minister
(hereinafter referred to as “appointed members”) :–
(i) a representative each to represent each of the
associations hereinafter set out, nominated by
the respective association;
(a) the Independent Medical
Practitioners  Association;
Registration of
existing Private
Medical
Institutions.
Private Health
Services
Regulatory
Council.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
(b) the Sri Lanka Dental Association;
and
(c) the Society of General Medical
Practitioners;
(ii)one person each to represent the fields of
Accountancy, Management, Law and Nursing:
provided such person is a person who has
rendered distinguished service in his
respective field;
(iii) nine representatives from the Association of
Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes; and
(b) the following ex-officio members :—
(i) the Director General of Health Services;
(ii) the Director in-charge of development of the
Private Health Sector;
(iii)the Registrar of the Sri Lanka Medical
Council; and
(iv) the Provincial Director of Health Services of
each Province.
(2) The Director-General of Health Services shall be the
Chairman of the Council, and the Director of Private Health
Sector Development shall be its Secretary.
(3) An appointed member of the Council shall, unless
such member vacates office earlier by death, resignation or
removal or otherwise, hold office for a period of three years.
(4) An appointed member shall be deemed to have
vacated office if such member absents himself from three
consecutive meetings of the Council without any reason,
which the council considers as being an acceptable excuse.

<!-- page 6 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
5
(5) (a) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shall
be seven members.
(b) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the
Council and in the absence of the Chairman, the members
present shall elect one from amongst them to preside at the
meetings.
(6) The Minister may at any time after assigning reasons
therefor, remove an appointed member of the Council from
office.
(7) An appointed member of the Council may at anytime
resign from his office by letter to that effect addressed to the
Minister.
(8) In the event of the vacation of office by an appointed
member by death, resignation, removal, the Minister shall,
having regard to the provisions of paragraph (a) of subsection
(1), appoint another person to succeed such member. The
member appointed to fill the vacancy shall hold office during
the unexpired period of the term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.
7. The Council shall, by name assigned to it under section
6, be a body corporate and shall have perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.
8. (1) The Seal of the Council shall be in the custody of
the Secretary of the Council or any other member authorised
by the Council.
(2) The Seal of the Council may be altered in such manner
as may be determined by the Council.
(3) The Seal of the Council shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except in the presence of the
Chairman of the Council, and one other member, both of
whom shall sign the instrument or document in token of their
presence:
Council to be a
body corporate.
Seal of the
Council.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
 Provided that where the Chairman is unable to be present
at the time when the seal of the Council is affixed to any
instrument or document, any other member authorized in
writing by the Chairman in that behalf,  shall be competent
to sign such instrument or document in accordance with the
preceding provisions of this subsection.
(4) The Council shall maintain a register of the instruments
or documents to which the seal of the Council is affixed.
9. The Council shall exercise, perform and discharge its
powers, duties and functions under this Act in such manner,
as the Council considers best calculated to achieve the
following objects :—
(a) the development and monitoring of standards to be
maintained by the registered Private Medical
Institutions;
(b) the method of evaluation of standards maintained
by such Private Medical Institutions;
(c) to ensure that minimum qualifications for
recruitment and minimum standards of training of
personnel, are adopted by all Private medical
Institutions;
(d) to ensure the quality of patient care services rendered
or provided by such Private Medical Institutions.
10. The Council shall exercise, perform and discharge
the following powers, duties and functions:—
(a) the formulation of quality assurance programmes
for patient care in Private Medical Institutions and
monitoring of the same;
(b) the maintenance of  minimum standards for
recruitment of all staff engaged or employed in such
Private Medical Institutions;
Duties and
functions of the
Council.
Objects of the
Council.

<!-- page 8 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
7
(c) the collection and publication of relevant health
information and statistics;
(d) the implementation of a method of grading
according to the facilities offered by the respective
Private Medical Institutions; and
(e) such other functions as may be necessary to achieve
the objects as referred to in section 9.
11. The Council may where it considers it necessary,
delegate the performance and discharge of its duties and
functions under this Act to any member or members of the
Council or a Committee consisting of members of the Council
who shall perform and discharge such duty or function,
subject to the general direction and control of the Council.
12. (1) The Council shall have its own Fund.
(2) There shall be paid into Fund of the Council—
(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time
to time by Parliament for the use of the Council;
(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Council by way of fees, rates, charges or otherwise
in the discharge of its functions;
(c) all such sums of money as may be made available to
it by way of grants or donations.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund such sums of money
as may be required to defray the expenses incurred by the
Council in the exercise, discharge and performance of its
powers, duties and functions  under this Act.
13. (1) The Minister may on the advice of the Council,
by Order published in the Gazette, formulate and enforce
schemes of accreditation for private medical institutions. Such
Council to
delegate its
duties and
functions.
Accreditation of
Private Medical
Institutions.
Fund of the
Council.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
Order should carry all the details specifying the facilities,
services and any other factors constituting the criteria for
accreditation :
Provided however, that period of nine moths shall be given
to concerned interests, before the implementation of such
schemes of accreditation or subsequent changes that may be
made thereto.
(2) Notwithstanding the Order published under
subsection (1), a Private Medical Institution shall continue
to offer its services until such time, the final decision of the
Council on accreditation shall be made known to such
Institution :
Provided however, in the event of a Private Medical
Institution not qualifying for accreditation, sufficient time
shall be given in writing to such institution, to achieve the
standards specified by the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Health to qualify for accreditation.
(3) The Council shall where necessary, call upon a panel
of persons who in their opinion possess the necessary
knowledge, expertise, skill or learning to assist and advice
the Council in working out the details in the schemes of
accreditation and to help, examine and evaluate the
applications made in terms of such schemes.
(4) The Council may implement the schemes of
accreditation in stages or in such other manner as the Minister
may determine.
(5) An accreditation of a Private Medical Institution
under this section shall not restrict such institution from
attending to life saving emergencies.
14. (1) It shall be lawful for any authorized officer,
without prior notice, at any time by day or night, to enter any
Private Medical Institution, or any premises appertaining
thereto, and do all such acts as may be reasonably necessary
for the purpose of carrying out any inspection, examination,
investigation or survey, for the purposes of this Act.
Power to enter
and inspect.

<!-- page 10 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
9
(2) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this section
shall be deemed or construed to authorize any person to
inspect any medical record relating to any patient in an
institution unless there is a special authorization by the
Council to inspect any records, other than confidential
information which requires the sanction of  Court.
(3) Every person who resists or obstructs such  authorized
officer by the Council in the exercise of the powers conferred
by the preceding provisions of this section shall be guilty of
an offence under this Act.
(4) For the purpose of this section “authorised officer”
means the Provincial Director of Deputy Provincial Director
of Health Services of the respective Provincial Council or
any other officer, as may on the recommendation of the
Council be appointed by the Minister by Order published in
the Gazette.
15. (1) Any registered person or body of persons who—
(a) contravenes or fails to comply with the provisions
of this Act or any regulation or rule made there under,
or any order or direction lawfully given;
(b) contravenes or fails to comply with any condition
or provision contained in any Certificate of
Registration, issued under this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(2) Any person who—
(a) attempts to commit an offence under this Act; or
(b) aids or abets another person to commit an offence
under this Act,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
Offences.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
(3) No prosecution for an offence under subsection (1) or
(2) shall be instituted except with the written sanction of the
Council.
16. (1) Any person who is convictes after summary trial
before a Magistrate, of an offence under this Act, shall be
liable on such conviction—
(a) where  such offence involves the causing of injury
to human life or seriously jeopardizing public health
or public safety, to a fine not exceeding fifty
thousand rupees;
(b) for any other offence —
(i) in the case of a first offence, to fine not
exceeding ten thousand rupees;
(ii) in the case of second or subsequent offence,
to a fine not exceeding twenty thousand
rupees; and
(iii) in the case of continuing offence, to a further
fine not exceeding one thousand rupees for
each day on which the commission of the
offence is continued after conviction or to
imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine
and imprisonment.
(2) Where a person convicted of an offence under this Act
is convicted for a second offence of like or similar nature, the
Magistrate’s Court convicting him for the second offence
shall cancel any certificate, authorization or permit granted
or issued to such person or body of persons under this Act, or
any regulation made thereunder and shall cause notice of
such cancellation to be notified to the Council.
Penalties.

<!-- page 12 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
11
17. Where an offence under this Act or any regulation or
rule made thereunder is committed by a body of persons,
then—
(a) if that body is a body corporate, every person who
at the time of the commission of such offence was
the Director, General Manager, Secretary or other
similar executive officer of that body;
(b) if that body is not a body corporate, every person
who at the time of the commission of the offence
was the Chairman, General Manager, Secretary or
other similar executive officer of that body;
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge or
that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of that offence.
18. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorised to be made.
(2) Without prejudice to the powers conferred by
subsection (1), the Minister may on the advice of the Council
make regulations in respect of all or any of the following
matters:—
(a) the guidelines to be complied with by Provincial
Directors of Health Services in the registration or
renewal of registration of Private Medical
Institutions;
(b) the rates, charges and any other expenses, which
shall be recovered or received for any services
rendered or performed in terms of the Act;
(c) the layout,  construction, illumination, additions
and improvements and the maintenance of
Regulations.
Offences
committed by a
body of persons.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
cleanliness of all the buildings and premises of
registered Private Medical Institutions;
(d) the circumstances in which cases of infectious
diseases may be admitted for treatment and the
precautions to be taken in such event;
(e) the adoption of universally recognized precautions
for the prevention and control of infections;
(f) the classification of Private Medical Institutions into
categories, depending upon services being rendered
or functions discharged by such institutions;
(g) the procedure or practice to be followed in
entertaining any complaint against any Private
Medical  Institution or person attached thereto from
any interested or aggrieved person, and the final
disposal thereof;
(h) charges for accommodation, drugs and services
rendered by Private Medical Institutions ;
(i) the appointment of competent officers to prosecute
actions instituted under this Act.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication, or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette  be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation, which it is
not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded from the
date of it’s disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

<!-- page 14 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
13
19. (1) The Council may make rules in respect of all or
any of the following matters :—
(a) the maintenance of records, books, registers, bills,
receipts, returns, statements, forms and other
documents by a Private Medical Institution;
(b) the reports, returns, statements and other information
required to be furnished periodically by a Private
Medical  Institution to the Ministry of the Minister;
(c) the minimum size of wards or rooms and the
minimum floor space, which should be allotted for
each patient;
(d) the provisions of adequate latrine and bathing
facilities for in-patients and personnel employed in
Private Medical Institutions;
(e) the machinery, equipment, devices, utensils,
apparatus, crockery, fittings, furniture and other
requisites of a general or special nature ;
(f) the immunization of personnel employed in Private
Medical  Institutions against specified diseases;
(g) the prohibition or restriction of admission of
midwifery cases, except to a maternity home or to
such other Private Medical  Institution having
separate and exclusive facilities for the reception
and treatment of such cases;
(h) the prohibition or restriction of the admission of
cases other than midwifery cases to a maternity home
or to such other Private Medical  Institution having
separate and exclusive facilities for the reception
and treatment of maternity cases;
(i) defining staffing patterns including minimum
qualification, induction and in-service training and
refresher courses that should be followed by such
personnel;
Rules.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
(j) the definition of the specialized departments and
ancillary services that should be maintained in terms
of special fields of treatment;
(k) the disposal of refuse and waste matter;
(l) the provision of sinks, taps and outlets in wards,
kitchens, bathrooms and latrines in proportion to
the ratio of patients and personnel employed therein;
(m ) the provision of housing, residential quarters or
transport facilities required for maintaining the
health of patients; and
(n) the provision of adequate expertise for the
maintenance of all institutional assets, machinery
and equipment.
(2) No rule made by the Council shall have effect unless
it has been approved by the Minister and published in the
Gazette.
20. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
“accreditation” means a process that is adopted for the
purpose of certification of the technical
competence and quality of service and facilities
of a Private Medical Institutions; and
“Private Medical Institution” means any Institution or
establishment used or intended to be used for the
reception of, and the providing of medical and
nursing care and treatment for persons suffering
from any  sickness, injury or infirmity, a Hospital,
Nursing Home, Maternity Home, Medical
Laboratory, Blood Bank, Dental Surgery,
Dispensary and Surgery, Consultation Room, and
any establishment providing health screening or
health promotion service, but does not include a
Interpretation.

<!-- page 16 -->

Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
15
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Repeals.
house of observation, Mental hospital, Hospital,
Nursing Home, dispensary, Medical Centre or any
other premises maintained or  controlled by the
State, any private dispensary  or Pharmacy or drug
stores exclusively used or intended to be used for
dispensing and selling any drug, medical
preparation or pharmaceutical product, or any
Institution or premises registered for any purpose
under the provisions of Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of
1961 and the Homeopathy Act, No. 7 of 1970.
21. (1) The Nursing Homes (Regulation) Act (Chapter
220) is herby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Nursing Homes
(Regulation) Act, the registration of any Private Medical
Institution registered thereunder shall be deemed to be valid
and effectual and shall continue to be so valid and effectual
for a period of three months from the appointed date, within
which period such medical institution is required to apply
for registration in terms of the provisions of this Act.
(3) Where any Private Medical Institution referred to in
subsection (2), fails to obtain a registration under this  Act as
required by that subsection within the period specified
therein, the registration obtained under the repealed Act shall
cease to be valid and effectual from and after the expiry of
such specified period.
22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 17 -->

16 Private Medical Institutions (Registration)
Act, No. 21 of 2006
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.