

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2356$15 - 2023 fkdjeïn¾ ui 01 jeks nodod - 2023'11'01
No. 2356/15  -  wedNesday,  November  01,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - G 40648 - 14 (11/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
INLAND  REvENuE  ACT,  No. 24  Of 2017
Notice
It is hereby notified under Section 75 (1) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017, that the bilateral agreement for 
affording relief from double taxation and prevention of tax evasion and avoidance, entered into on February 03, 2023 
between the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Czech Republic as 
set out in the Schedule hereto, has been approved by parliament by resolution passed on May 25, 2023.
 
K. M. Mahinda Siriwardana,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Finance, Economic Stabilization
 and National Policies.
Ministry of Finance, Economic Stabilization 
and National Policies,
Colombo 01,
october 30, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
2a
aGreemeNt
betweeN
ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE DEMoCRATIC SoCIALIST REPubLIC oF SRI LANkA 
aNd
 ThE GovERNMENT oF ThE CzECh REPubLIC
FoR ThE ELIMINATIoN oF DoubLE TAxATIoN
 wITh RESPECT To TAxES oN INCoME AND 
FoR ThE PREvENTIoN oF TAx EvASIoN AND AvoIDANCE
The Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and Government of the Czech Republic,
desiring to  conclude an Agreement for the elimination of double taxation with respect to taxes on income and
intending to eliminate double taxation with respect to taxes on income without creating opportunities for non-taxation or 
reduced taxation through tax evasion or avoidance (including through treaty-shopping arrangements aimed at obtaining 
reliefs provided in this Agreement for the indirect benefit of residents of third jurisdictions) and
desiring to further develop economic relations between both States and to enhance co-operation in tax matters,
have agreed as follows:
Article 1
PERSONS  COvERED
This Agreement shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracting States.
Article 2
TAXES  COvERED
 1. This Agreement shall apply to taxes on income imposed on behalf of a Contracting State or of its political subdivisions 
or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
 2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income all taxes imposed on total income or on elements of income, including 
taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property and taxes on the total amounts of wages or 
salaries paid by enterprises. 
 3. The existing taxes to which the Agreement shall apply are in particular:
 (a) in the case of the Czech Republic:
 (i) the tax on income of individuals;
 (ii) the tax on income of legal persons;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
3a
 (b) in the case of Sri Lanka:
     the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises that entered into agreements with 
the board of Investment.
 4. The Agreement shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of 
signature of the Agreement in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The competent authorities of the 
Contracting States shall notify each other of any significant changes that have been made in their taxation laws.
 5. The taxes covered by the  Agreement do not include any amount which represents penalties, fines or interest imposed 
under the laws of either Contracting State.
A rticle  3
GENERAL   DEfINITIONS 
 1. For the purposes of this  Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
 (a) the term “the Czech Republic” means the territory of the Czech Republic over which, under Czech legislation and 
in accordance with international law, the sovereign rights of the Czech Republic are exercised;
 (b) the term “Sri Lanka” means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as defined in the 
Constitution, including its land territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them, as well as the 
exclusive economic zone and continental shelf where the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka exercises 
or may hereafter exercise sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international law and its national 
legislation;
 (c) the terms “a Contracting State” and “the other Contraction State” mean the Czech Republic or Sri Lanka, as the 
context requires;
 (d) the term “person” includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons;
 (e) the term “company” means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax purposes;
 (f) the terms “enterprise of a contracting” and “enterprise of the other Contracting State” mean respectively an 
enterprise Carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the other 
Contracting State;
 (g) the term “national” means:
 (i) any individual possessing the nationality of a Contracting State;
 (ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its status as such from the laws in force in a Contracting 
State;
 (h) the term “international traffic” means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting 
State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely between places in the other Contracting State;
 (i) the term “competent authority” means:
 (i) in the Czech Republic, the Minister of Finance or his authorised representative;
 (ii)  in Sri Lanka, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue or an authorised representative of the 
Commissioner General.
 2. As regards the application of the  Agreement at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein shall, 
unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
4a
purposes of the taxes to which the  Agreement applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State 
prevailing over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
Article 4
RESIDENT
 1. For the purposes of this  Agreement, the term “resident of a Contracting State” means any person who, under the laws 
of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of incorporation or registration, place 
of management or any other criterion of a similar nature, and also includes that State and any political subdivision or 
local authority thereof. This term, however, does not include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect 
only of income from sources in that State.
 2. where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his status 
shall be determined as follows:
 (a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if he has 
a permanent home available to him in both States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State with which 
his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests);
 (b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent home 
available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an habitual 
abode;
 (c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the 
State of which he is a national;
 (d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall 
settle the question by mutual agreement.
 3. where be reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a  resident of both Contracting 
States, the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to determine by mutual agreement the 
Contracting State of which such person shall be deemed to be a resident for the purposes of the  Agreement, having 
regard to its place of effective management, the place where it is incorporated or otherwise constituted and any other 
relevant factors. In the absence of such agreement, such person shall not be entitled to any relief or exemption from 
tax provided by the  Agreement.
Article 5
PERmANENT   ESTAbLIShmENT
 1. For the purposes of this  Agreement, the term “permanent establishment” means a fixed place of business through 
which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
 2. The term “permanent establishment” includes especially:
 (a) a place of management;
 (b) a branch;
 (c) an office;
 (d) a factory;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
5a
 (e) a workshop;
 (f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of exploration,  development or extraction, of natural 
resources, and
 (g) a sales outlet.
 3. The term “permanent establishment” likewise encompasses:
 (a) a building site or a construction, assembly or installation project or supervisory activities in connection therewith, 
but only where such site, project or activities continue for a period of more than six months;
 (b) the furnishing of services, including consultancy or managerial services, by an enterprise of a Contracting State  
through employees or other personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only where activities of that 
nature continue in the territory of the other Contracting State for a period or periods exceeding in the aggregate 
six months within any twelve month period.
 4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term “permanent establishment” shall be deemed not to 
include:
 (a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise;
 (b) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of storage 
or display;
 (c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise pelonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of processing 
by another enterprise;
 (d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the burpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or of 
collecting information, for the enterprise;
 (e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the burpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any other 
activity;
 (f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-paragraphs 
(a) to (e),
provided that such activity or, in the case of sub-paragraph f), the overall activity of the fixed place of business, is      
of a preparatory or auxiliary character.
 5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person - other than an agent of an independent status 
to whom paragraph 7 applies - is acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting 
State, that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in 
respect of any activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person:
 (a) has and habitually exercises in that State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise, unless 
the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through a fixed 
place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the provisions of 
that paragraph; or
 (b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise from 
which he regularly dilivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
6a
 6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall, except 
in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects 
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of 
an independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
 7. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting 
State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commission agent or any 
other agent of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. 
however, when the activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, and 
conditions are made or imposed between that enterprise and the agent in their commercial and financial relations 
which differ from those which would have been made between independent enterprises, he will not be considered an 
agent of an independent status within the meaning of this paragraph.
 8. the fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which is a 
resident of the other Contracting State, or which carries on business in that other State (whether through a permanent 
establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
Article 6
INCOmE  fROm  ImmOv AbLE  PROPERTY
 1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture or 
forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
 2. The term  “immovable property” shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracting State in which 
the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property, 
livestock and equipment used in agriculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting 
landed property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for 
the working of, or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources; ships and aircraft shall not 
be regarded as immovable property.
 3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form or 
immovable property.
 4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 3 shall also apply to the income immovable property of an enterprise and to 
income from immovable property used for the performance of independent personal services.
Article 7
buSINESS  PROfITS
 1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries on 
business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries 
on business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is 
attributable to that permanent establishment.
 2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the 
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracting State be 
attributed to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and 
separate enterprise engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly 
independently with the enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
7A
 3. In determining the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions  expenses which are 
incurred for purposes of the business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative  
expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere, however, 
no such deduction shall be allowed in respect of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of 
actual expenses) by the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way 
of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return or the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission for 
specific services performend or for management, or , except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interest on 
moneys lent to the permanent establishment. Likewise, no account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits 
of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by 
the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or 
other similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission for specific services 
performed or for management, or , except in the case of a banking enterprise, by way of interst on moneys lent to the 
head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.
 4. Insofar as it has been customary in a Contracting state to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent 
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in 
paragraph 2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the prfits to be taxed by such an apportionment 
as may be customary; the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that  the result shall be in 
accordance with the principles contained in this Article.
 5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by  that permanent 
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
 6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be 
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary. 
 7. where profits include items of income which are dealt are with separately in other Articles of this Agreement, then 
the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.
Article 8
ShIPPING  AND   AIR  TRANSPORT
 1. Profits derived by an enterprise of a Contracting State from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic 
shall be taxable only in that State.
 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State from sources within 
the other Contracting State derived from the operation of ships in the international traffic may also be taxed in that 
other state according to the laws of that State, but the tax so charged shall be reduced by an amount equal to 50 per 
cent thereof.
 3. The provision of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or 
an international operating agency but only to so much of the profits so derived as is attributable to the participant in 
proportion to its share in the joint operation.
 4. For the purposes of this Article and notwithstanding the provisions of Article 12, profits from the operation of ships 
or aircraft in international traffic include:
 (a) profits from the rental on a bare boat basis of ships or aircraft and
 (b) profits from the use, maintenance or rental of containers (including trailers and related equipment for the transport 
of containers) used for the transport of goods,
    where such rental or such use, maintenance or rental, as the case may be, is incidental to the operation of ships or 
aircraft in international traffic.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
8a
Article 9
ASSOCIATED  ENTERPRISES
 1. where
 (a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an 
enterprise of  the other Contracting State, or
 (b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a 
Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
     and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or financial 
relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any profits which 
would , but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enterprises, but, by reason of those conditions, have 
not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
 2. where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State – and taxes accordingly – profits 
on which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other State and the profits so 
included are profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made 
between the two enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then 
that other State shall make an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In 
determining such adjustment, due regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Agreement and the competent 
authorities of the Contracting States shall if necessary consult each other.
 3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall not apply in the case of fraud, gross negligence or willful default.
Article 10
DIvIDENDS
 1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State 
be taxed in that other State.
 2. however, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a 
resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other 
Contracting State, the tax so charged shall be exceed:
 (a) 7.5 per cents of the gross amount of the dividends if the beneficial owner is a company which holds directly at 
least 10 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends;
 (b) 10 per cents of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
    This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the dividends are 
paid.
 3. The term “dividends” as used in this Article means income from shares or other rights, not being debt-claims, 
participating in profits, as well as:
 (a) income from other corporate rights; and

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
9a
 (b) other income,
  provided that such income is subjected to the same taxation treatment as income from shares by the laws of the State 
of which the company making the distribution or the payment is a resident.
 4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a residents of a 
Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is 
a resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal 
services from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively 
connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as 
the case may be, shall apply.
 5. where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting State, 
that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are 
paid to a resident of that other State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively 
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company’s 
undistributed profits to a tax on the company’s undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed 
profits consist wholly or partly of profits or income arising in such other state.
Article 11
INTEREST
 1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other 
State.
 2. however, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that 
State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall 
not exceed 5 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest arising in a Contracting State and beneficially owned by a 
resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in that other State if such interest is paid:
 (a) to the Government of the other Contracting State, including any political subdivision or local authority thereof;
 (b) to the Central bank of the other Contracting State;
 (c) to any institution owned or controlled by the Government of the other Contracting State if the purpose of the 
existence of such an institution is the promotion of export or investment; or 
 (d) in connection with any loan or credit guaranteed:
 (i) by the Government of the other Contracting state, including any political subdivision or local authority 
thereof, or
 (ii) by the Central bank of the other Contracting State, or
 (iii) by any institution owned or controlled by the Government of the other Contracting state if the purpose of 
the existence of such an institution is the promotion of export or investment.
 4. The term “interest” as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured 
by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor’s profits, and in particular, income 
from government securities and income from bonds of debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such 
securities, bonds or debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purposes 
of this Article. The term “interest” shall not include any item of income which is considered as a dividend under the 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Article 10.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
10a
 5. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident 
of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a 
permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent personal services from a fixed 
base situated therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such 
permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall 
apply.
 6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. where, however, 
the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not has in a Contracting State a 
permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was 
incurred, and such interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed 
to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
 7. where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them 
and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it sis paid, exceeds 
the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such 
relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess 
part of the payments shall remain taxable accord ing to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to 
the other provisions of this Agreement.
A rticle  12
ROYALTIES  AND  fEES  fOR  TEChNICAL  SER vICES
 1. Royalties and fees for technical services arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting 
State may be taxed in that other State.
 2. however, such royalties and fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise 
and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical services is 
a resident of the other Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the 
royalties or fees for technical services.
 3. (a) The term “royalties” as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use 
of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work, including cinematograph films, and 
films, tapes or other means of image or sound reproduction, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret 
formula or process, or for the use of, or the right to use, any industrial, commercial or scientific equipment, or for 
information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience.
 (b) The term “fees for technical services” as used in this Article means any payments in consideration for any service 
of technical, consultancy or managerial nature, but does not include payments for services mentioned in sub-
paragraph (a) of paragraph 3 of Article 5 and in Articles 8, 15, 16, 17 and 19. The term does not include also 
payments made by an individual for services furnished for the purpose of the personal use of the individual and 
payments for teaching made to or by educational institutions.
 4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties or fees for technical 
services, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the 
royalties or fees for technical services arises, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in 
that other State independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right, property of service in 
respect of which the royalties or fees for technical services is effectively connected with such permanent establishment 
or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
 5. Royalties and fees for technical shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that 
State. where, however, the person paying the royalties or fees for technical services, whether he is a resident of a 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
11a
Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent establishment or a fixed base in connection with 
which the liability to pay the royalties or fees for technical services was incurred, and such royalties or fees for 
technical services are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties or fees for technical 
services shall be deemed to arise in the State in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
 6. where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them 
and some other person, the amount of the royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the use, right, 
information or service for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer 
and the beneficial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-
mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each 
Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Agreement.
Article 13
CAPITAL  GAINS
 1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in Article 6 
and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
 2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment 
which an enterprise of a Contraction State has in he other Contracting State or of movable property pertaining to a 
fixed base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose or performing 
independent personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or 
with the whole enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
 3. Gains from the alienation of property forming part of the business property of an enterprise of a Contraction State and 
Consisting of ships or aircraft operated by such enterprise in international traffic or of movable property pertaining to 
the operation of such ships or aircraft, shall be taxable only in that State.
 4. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares or other interests in a company which 
is a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
 5. Gains from the alienation of any property, other than that referred to in the preceding paragraphs, shall be taxable 
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a resident.
Article 14
INDEPENDENT  PERSONAL  SER vICES
 1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of professional 
services or other activities of an independent character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following 
circumstances, when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State:
 (a) if he has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting state for the purpose of performing his 
activities; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in that other 
State; or
 (b) if his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate 183 
days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned; in that case, only so much 
of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that other State may be taxed in that other State.
 2. The term “professional services” includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or teaching 
activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
12a
 3. In the computation of the periods mentioned in sub-paragraph b) of paragraph 1, the following days shall be included:
 (a) all days of physical presence including days of arrivals and departures, and
 (b) days spent outside the State of activity such as Saturdays and Sundays, national holidays, holidays, and business 
trips directly connected with the performance of the activity of the recipient in that State, after which the activity 
was resumed in the territory of that State.
Article 15
DEPENDENT  PERSONAL  SER vICES
 1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a 
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment 
is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised. such remuneration as is derived 
therefrom may be taxed in that other State.
 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in respect 
of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned  State if all the 
following conditions are met:
 (a) the recipient exercises the employment in the other State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate 
183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned, and
 (b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of the other State, and
 (c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in the other 
State.
 3. In the computation of the periods mentioned in sub-paragraph a) of paragraph 2, the following days shall be included:
 (a) all days of physical presence including days of arrivals and departures, and
 (b) days spent outside the State of activity such as Saturdays and Sundays, national holidays, holidays, and business 
trips directly connected with the employment of the recipient in that State, after which the activity was resumed 
in the territory of that State.
 4. The term “employer” mentioned in sub-paragraph b) of paragraph 2 means the person having right on the work 
produced and bearing the responsibility and risk connected with the performance of the work.
 5. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived by a resident of an employment 
exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise of a Contracting State in international traffic, may be 
taxed in that State.
Article 16
DIRECTORS’  fEES
  Directors’ fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a  Contracting State in his capacity as a member 
of the board of directors or any other similar organ of a company which is a resident of the other contracting State 
may be taxed in that other State.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
13a
A rticle  17
ARTISTES  AND  SPORTSPERSONS
 1. Notwithstading the provisiosns of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an 
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his 
personal activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
 2. where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as such 
accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstading the 
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15 be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or 
sportsperson are exercised.
Article 18
PENSIONS  AND  ANNuITIES
 1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, any pensions, other similar remuneration and annuities paid to 
a resident of a Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
 2. The term “annuity” means a stated sum payable to an individual periodically at stated times during his life or during 
a specified or ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full 
consideration in money or money’s worth.
Article 19
GOvERNmENT   SER vICE
 1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local 
authority thereof to an individual in respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be 
taxable only in that State.
 (b) however, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State 
if the services are rendered in that State and the individual is a resident of that State who ;
 (i) is a national of that State ; or
 (ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
 2. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions, other similar remuneration and annuies paid by, or out 
of funds created by, a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a local authority thereof to an individual in 
respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State.
 (b) however, such pensions, other similar remuneration and annuities shall be taxable only in the other Contracting 
State if the individual is a resident of, and a national of, that State.
 3. The Provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages, pensions, other similar remuneration and 
annuities in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contacting State or a political 
subdivision or a local authority thereof.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
14a
Article 20
STuDENTS AND  APPRENTICES
 Payments which a student or apprentice who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting State a resident of the 
other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his education or training 
receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State, provided that such 
payments arise from sources outside that State.
Article 21
OThER  INCOmE
 1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of this 
Agreement shall be taxable only in that State.
 2. The provisions of paragraph I shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defined in 
paragraph 2 of Article 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business 
in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State 
independent personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the 
income is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment of fixed base, In such case the provisions 
of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
 3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, items of income of a resident of a Contracting State not dealt 
with in the foregoing Articles of this Agreement and arising in the other Contracting State may also be taxed in that 
other State.
Article 22
ELImINATION  Of  DOubLE  T AXATION
 1. where a resident of a Contracting State derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, 
may be taxed in the other Contacting State, the first-mentioned State shall allow as a deduction from the tax on the 
income of that resident an amount equal to the income tax paid in that other State Such deduction shall not, however, 
exceed that part of the income tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which is attributable to the income 
which may be taxed in that other State.
 2. where, in accordance with any provision of the Agreement, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State is 
exempt from tax in that State, such State may nevertheless, in calculating that amount of tax on the remaining income 
of such resident, take into account the exempted income.
 3. Nothwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Article, the exemption method may also be applicable in a 
Contracting State provided that is domestic laws allow so and in accordance with these laws.
Article 23
NON - DISCRImINATION
 1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall  not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any 
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements 
to which nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may 
be subjected. This provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not 
residents of one or both of the Contracting States.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
15a
 2. The taxation on a permanent establishment which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contacting 
State or a fixed base available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State shall not be less 
favourably levied in that other State than the taxation levied onenterprises or residents of that other State carrying 
on the same activities. This provision  shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to grant to residents of 
the other Contracting State any personal allowances, reliefs and reductions for taxation purposes on account of civil 
status, or family responsiblities which it grants to its own residents.
 3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12, 
apply, interest, royalities, fees, for technical services and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracting 
State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such 
enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if thay had been paid to a resident of the first mentioned State.
 4. Enterprises of a Contacting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, 
by one or more residents of the other Contacting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any 
taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected 
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
 5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and 
description.
Article 24
muTuAL   AGREEmENT   PROCEDuRE
 1. where a person considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in 
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, he may, irrespective of the remeidies provided by 
the domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of either Conratcting State. The case 
must be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance 
with the provisions of the Agreement.
 2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to 
arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other 
Contacting State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Agreement. Any 
agreement reached shall be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contacting 
States. 
 3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual agreement any difficulties 
or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of the Agreement. They may also consult together for the 
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Agreement.
 4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purposes of 
reaching an agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs.
Article 25
EXChANGE  Of  INfORmATION
 1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeably relevant 
for carrying out the provisions of this Agreement or to the administration or enforecement of the domestic laws 
concerning taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political 
subdivisions or local authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Agreement. The exchange 
of information is not restricted by Articles 1 and 2.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
16a
 2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner 
as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities 
(including courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement 
or prosecution in respect of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or 
the oversight of the above. Such persons or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They 
may disclose the information in public court proceedings or in judicial decisions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
information received by a Contacting State may be used for other purposes when such information may be used for 
such other purposes under the laws of both States and the competent authority of the supplying State authorises such 
use. 
 3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the 
obligation.
 a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the other 
Contracting State ;
 b) to supply information which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of that 
or of the other Contracting State ;
 c) to supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional secret or 
trade process, or information the disclosure, of which would be contrary to public policy (order public).
 4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contacting State shall 
use its information gathering measures to obtain the requested information, even though that other State may not 
need such information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the 
limitations of paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline 
to supply information solely beacuse it has no demostic interest in such information.
 5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply 
information solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person acting in 
an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person. 
Article 26
mEmbERS  Of  DIPLOmATIC  mISSIONS  AND CONSuLAR  POSTS
 Nothing in this Agreement shall affect the fiscal privilages of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts under 
the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
Article 27
ENTITLEmENT   TO  bENEfITS
 1. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement, a benefit under the Agreement shall not be granted in 
respect of an item or income if it is reasonable to conclude, having regard to all relevant facts and circumstances, 
that obtaining that benefit was one of the principal purposes of any arrangement or transaction that resulted directly 
or indirectly in that benefit, unless it is established that granting that benefit in these circumstances would be in 
accordance with the object and purpose of the relevant provisions of the Agreement. 
 2. where a benefit under this Agreement is denied to a person under the provisios of paragraph 1, the competent 
authority of the Contracting State that would otherwise have granted this benefit shall nevertheless treat that person 
as being entitled to this benefit, or to different benefits with respect to a specific item of income, if such competent 
authority, upon request from that person and after consideration of the relevant facts and circumstances, determines 
that such benefits would have been granted to that person in the absence of such transaction or arrangement. The 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'11'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.11.2023
17A
Competent Authority of the Contracting State to which a request has been made under this paragraph by a resident of 
the other Contracting State shall consult with the competent authority of that other State before rejecting the request.
 3. The provisions of the Agreement shall in no case prevent either Contracting State from applying the provisions of its 
domestic laws that are aimed at the prevention of fiscal avoidance or evasion.
Article  28
ENTRY   INTO  fORCE
 1. Each of the Contracting States shall notify to the other, throught the diplomatic channels, the completion of the 
procedures required by its domestic law for the bringing into force of this Agreement. This Agreement shall enter 
into force on the date of receipt of the later of these notifications and its provisions shall have effect.
 a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, to income paid or credited on or after 1st January in the calendar year next 
following that in which the Agreement enters into force.
 b) in respect of other taxes on income, to income in any taxable year beginning on or after 1st January in the calendar 
year next following that in which the Agreement enters into force.
 2. The Convention between the Government of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and the Government of the 
Republic of Sri Lanka for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to 
taxes on income and property signed at Colombo on July 26, 1978, shall cease to be in force and in effect in relation 
between the Czech Republic and Sri Lanka on the date of the entry into effect of this Agreement.
Article 29
TERmINATION
 This Agreement shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State, Either Contracting State may terminate 
the Agreement, through the diplomatic channels , by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end of 
any calendar year following after the period of five years from the date on which the Agreement enters into force, in 
such event, the Agreement shall cease to have effect :
 a) in respect of taxes withheld at sources, to income paid or credited on or after 1st January in the calendar year next 
following that in which the notice is given ;
 b) in respect of other taxes on income, to income in any taxable year begining on or after 1st January in the calendar 
year next following thatin which the notice is given.
  IN  wITNESS whERE oF ThE uNDERSIGNED, bEING DuLyAuThoRIzED ThERETo, hA vE SIGNAD ThIS 
aGreemeNt.
   Done in duplicate at Colombo this 03rd day of February, 2023 in the Sinhala, Czech and English languages, all texts 
being equally authentic. In the case of any divergence, the English text shall prevail.
 kanakarathna Mudiyanselage Mahinda Siriwardana Dr. Eliska zigova
 Secretary Ambassador of Czech Republic
 Ministry of Finance, Economic Stabilization and to Sri Lanka  
 National Policies For the Government of the
 For the Government of the Czech Republic
 Democratic Socialist Repulic of Sri Lanka    
eoG 11 - 0009
PrinTEd aT ThE dEParTMEnT OF GOVErnMEnT PrinTinG,  Sri LanKa.