

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2047$6 - 2017 fkdjeïn¾ ui 27 jeks i÷od - 2017'11'27
No. 2047/6 – MONDA Y, NOVEMBER  27, 2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A - PG 3783 - 12 (2017/11)
PART  IV  (A)  - PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Councils Notifications
SABARAGAMUWA   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
 Industrial  Development Authority  of  Provincial  Statute No. 14  of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
Honourable Chairman of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council certified on 26.09.2017.
Honourable Governor of  the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council assented on 02.11.2017.
Printed by order of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council
SABARAGAMUWA  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY STATUTE NO. 14 OF 2017 OF  THE SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
INDUSTRIAL  Development Authority Statute No. 14 of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council Which is Passed by
the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council on 26.09.2017 and  assented by the Honourable Governor of the Sa baragamuwa
Province on 02.11.2017, is here by published for the information of the public.
P. S. R. M. WIJAYARAJA,
 Council Secretary,
Sabaragamuwa  Provincial Council.
Councial Secretariat,
Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council,
22nd  November , 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 27.11.2017
2A
         SABARAGAMUWA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Industrial  Development Authority  Statute No. 14  of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Council
 Sabaragamuwa Provincial Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 04 of 1990 shall be repealed and
 abrogate with the enactment of this Statue.
Industrial  Development Authority   Statute No. 14  of 2017 of the Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Council
The Statutes to enact regulations to establish an Industrial Development  Authority  on behalf of
establishment of Industrial, Commerce, Business & Income Generation projects, Development & Promotion
and consequential factors in connection with it.
Be it therefore enacted by Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka as follows.
01. This Charter may be Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 14 of 2017 of  Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Council and the effective date shall be the date on which the Provincial Governor approves
the Statute by setting his seal.
02. (i) With effect from such date as may be determined by Hon. Governor of Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka there shall be established an Authority
called the " Industrial Development Authority" ( Herein after " the Authority" means the Industrial
Development Authority).
(ii)The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection (01), be a body corporate having
perpetual succession and a Common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name, and may
perform such acts as bodies corporate may by law perform.
03. (i) The Authority shall be consist of 08 members appoint by the Minister of Industry of Sabaragamuwa
Provincial Council.
(A) Two persons who possess special ability and qualification regarding the subject and objectives of
the Authority as Determine by the Minister
(B) A member nominate by the Minister in charge of Finance Subject of Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council.
(C) Sabaragamuwa Provincial Director of Industrial Development
(D) Accountant of the Ministry of Industry
(E) Assistant Director of Development Assistant of National Craft Council.
(F) An Engineer from engineering Service Unit of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
(G) Secretary or his representative of Industrial Ministry of Sabaragamuwa Province.
(ii) The Minister may, appoint one of the members to be the Chairman of the Authority.
Short title &
date of
Operation
Establishment
of Indusrial
Development
Authority
Constitution  of
the Board of
Directors
Chairman of the
Authority
That
Sabaragamuwa
Provincial
Industrial
Development
Authority
Statute  No. 04
of 1990 shall be
repealed and
abrogate

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 27.11.2017
Disqualification
for being
appointed as
(iii) The Director - General shall be appointed on the power of his office upon the approval of the
Minister.
(iv) The General Manager of the Authority shall be entitle to all the allowances and benefits allow for a
Director of the Board of Directors.
04. A Person
(A) Shall be disqualified from being appointed or from continuing as a Director if he is a member of
parliament or a member of a Provincial Council; or
(B) If there is a financial or any other bond may be affected prejudicially in actig as a member of the
Authority
05. (i) Every member shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of his appointment, unless he
earlier vacates office by death, resignaion, removal or transferring out of Sabaragamuwa Provincial
Council and qualified for  reappointment.
(ii) Where any Director is removed of his Office on account of death, ill health, absence from the
Republic the Minister may appoint any person to act in place of such Director according to Paragraph
03 to fill such vacancy and such person shall hold office for the unexpired  period of the term of office
of the Director whom he succeds.However in the event of a new Minister of Industry is appointed Board
of Directors including the Chairman shall be Dissolved and new Board of Directors and a Chairman shall
be appointed.
(iii) Where any member is temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office on account of ill health,
absence from the Republic or any other cause, the Minister may appoint any person to act in place of
such member for the period of his absence according to the regulations mentioned in paragraph  03 in
the way of the temporary absent member was first appointed.
06. (i) The Seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of the General Manager of the Authority.
(ii) The Seal of the Authority may be altered in Authority such manner as may be determined by the
Authority.
07. (i) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to do so, remove, any Member of the Authority appointed
in accordance with Section three from office without reason stated.
(ii) In the event removal of a Member in respect of sub section one  (01) such decision shall not be
questioned by any court.
08. Any member including Chairman of the Authority may resign his office by written communication
addressed to the Minister in any occasion.
09. The Chairman & Members Directors of the Authority shall be remunerated at such rates and in such
manner and shall be subject to the terms and conditions determined by the Minister.
10. (i) The Directors - General  shall preside at all meeting  of the Authority and in his absence any Director
elected by the Directors shall preside at such meeting.
(ii) Quoram of any me e ting  of the  authority s hall be  four
(iii) De cis ions  for all the  proble ms  in any me e ting of the  authority , s hall be  de cide d on the  cons e nt of the
quorum of pre s e nt me mbe rs . If the  me mbe rs  ha ve  be e n divide d in e qua lly the  Cha irman s hall re ce ive  the
Critica l V ote .
Team of Office
of the members
of the Authority
Seal of the
Authority
Removal of the
member of the
Authority
Resignation of
the member of
the Authority
Remuneration
of the Chairman
and Members
of the Authority
Meeting &
quorum at
meeting of the
Authority

<!-- page 4 -->

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 27.11.2017
4A
11. No act or Proceeding of the Authority shall be invalid  by reason only of any vacancy  among its
Directors or any  defect in the appointment of any of its Directors.
12. Authority, on the approval of the Minister appoints a well qualified & experience person as the General
Manager of the Authority.
13. Authority
(A) May appoint , dismiss and exercise disciplinary control over the staff of the Authority.
(B) Fix the Salary, wages or other remuneration of such staff and pay by the fund of the Authority.
(C) Regulations of the Establishment code are not applicable to staff work under the authority, other
than the employees appointed from the public service or provincial public service.
(D) A Trust fund and other program may be established and conduct for the benefit of the Staff & pay
the contribution.
(E) Determine the terms and conditions of service of such staff.
(F) Authority may work for the welfare, insurance & emergency disasters of the emloyees & officials.
(G) The Chairman & Board of Directors vested the power of appointment the officials & the employees
to the institutions of the Authority on the approval of the Minister.The Secretary of the Ministry and
the General Manager has such powers to sign such appointment letters. The Secretary of the Ministry
has powers to appoint the Officers already in public or provincial public service to the posts  as deem
necessary.
(H) The Chairman & Board of Directors are vested power of selecting staff  for the Authority. The
Secretary may exercise disciplinary control on the recommendation of the Borad of Directors.
14. (a) To Plan and implement the policies for industrial development in such manner determine by the
provincial council.
(b) to start, encourage, assist, uplift and develop the commerce, business, industries and other projects.
(c) To provide and distribute raw materials and local technology.
(d) To get and provide information and knowledge on industrial development.
(e) To initiate programmers for employees's welfare of the Authority.
(f) To conduct programmers for the an employment with the fund receive from other institutions and to
provide management and technical skills, training and marketing facilities necessary for those who are
in industries.
(g) Industrial Research and development affairs.
(h) To appoint the staff necessary to the works of the Authority and delegation of powers to them.
(i) To make regulations for the administration of the works of the authority.
(j) To charge for the facilities and services of the authority.
(k) Any other actions and things relevant in implementation of powers, Services and takes there of.
(l) To assist in provision of capital.
15. (i) There shall be a fund for the Authority. They shall be credited to the fund of the Authority.
Powers of the
authority on the
Staff
Funds of the
Authority
Vacancy among
Directors not to
Invalidate acts
and Proceedings.
General
Manager.
Power and
functions of the
Authority

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 27.11.2017
(A) Allocations of  the annual budget of the Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
(B) Grants given by the Sri Lanka or outside sources.
(C) Money transferred by any act to the Authority.
(D) Interest earned by capital & loans provided by the Authority, charges of the services provided to
the organizations belong to public or private sector, a group, society or individual.
16. Administration, Management and control of the fund shall be assigned to the Authority
17. (i) The financial year of the Authority shall be a calendar year
(ii) The Authority shall be maintained due registers for all the income, expenditures assets and  debets
and all other transactions
(iii) Sections 154 of the constitution of Sri Lanka shall be relevant to of the authority.
(iv) The auditing report shall be presented to the Provincial Council be before each financial year after
presented to the Minister.
18. All the staff of  the authority shall be regarded as the public officers by mean of the penal code and it's
function.
19. The authority shall be regarded as institution of sub schedule by mean of the Bribery Act.
20. (i) Authority shall conduct according to the financial regulations of Sabaragamuwa Provincial and
Public Financial Regulations.
(ii) In case of any Institute may be closed and legally closed, stable and unstable properties shall  be
assigned to the Authority.Similarly, the debits of such institute or service shall be assign to the Authority
and Authority shall fulfill such tasks properly . In such occasions such properties shall be sold and fulfill
the responsibilities.
(iii) An annual survey shall be conducted for every institute and service belong to the Authority and the
Secretary of the Ministry shall possess such powers. A copy of the report directed to the Chairman of
the Authority by the Secretary shall be directed to the Auditor General .
(iv) Audit Reports sent by Auditor General and Internal Audit section shall discuss by the board of
directors. The board of Directors shall bear the responsibility of answering for the audit quires an d
taking correcting measure for the defects.
21. On the approval of the board of directors in writing, the chairman shall delegate power, service and tasks
to any employee.
Assistants and
Gifts
Control of the
fund
Financial year
and auditing of
the Authority
Staff of the
authority shall
be public
officers.
Regarded as a
institute of the
Sub schedule
by mean of
Bribery Act.
Financial
Control of the
Authority
Delegation of
power to staff
by the
Chairman.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV(w) - fldgi - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'11'27
PART IV(A) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 27.11.2017
6A
Annual
Allowance
received by
the Authority.
22. Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council shall release to the Authority to bare the expense of paying workers'
wages, allowances and others to maintain the properties under the Authority and for the service tasks
and bonds mention in this statue.
23. Money necessary to the Authority to fulfill the services of the Authority or bond of the Authority.
Under  this statues shall be taken by the Authority a loan through an over depositor such other way on
the consent of the Minister or under such general approval or order by him.
24. (i) The Minister  shall command to the authority in connection with the affairs of the Authority shall
fulfill the commands.
(ii) Minister shall order to provide reports and details of the Authority and authority shall provide such
reports and details as soon as possible.
25. (i) Minister may make order on the matters relevant to the Authority.
(ii) Every order made by the Minister shall be presented for the approval of the cabinet.
(iii) They shall be forwarded to the approval of the provincial council after cabinet approval and then
publish in the Gazette.
26. Sabaragamuwa Provincial Industrial Development Authority Statute No. 04 of  1990 shall be repealed
and abrogate with the enactment of this statue. The effective date shall be the date on which the
Provincial Governor approves the Statute by setting his seal.
27. (i) In the Event of Contrast between this Statue and any other existing law regulations of this Statue
shall prevail.
(ii) In the event of any inconsistency between Tamil and English texts of this Statue, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
28. In this statue unless there be repugnant in the context.
" Minister " shall mean the Minister in charge of the Industry Subject of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
" Provincial Council " shall mean Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
" Cabinet "  shall mean the Cabinet of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
" Secretary " shall mean the Secretary of the Minister of Industry of Sabaragamuwa Provincial Council.
12 - 321
Power of
taking loans
Commands of
the Minister
Order
Interpretation
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.