

<!-- page 1 -->

PLANT PROTECTION  ACT,  No. 35  OF  1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 7th October, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 08, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 9.00 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
Appointment of
Director-General
of Agriculture.
Short title.
H - 022545
[Certified on 7 th October, 1999]
L.D.–O.31/97.
A N  ACT   TO  MAKE  PROVISION  AGAINST  THE  INTRODUCTION  INTO
SRI LANKA  AND  THE  SPREADING  THEREIN , OF  ANY  ORGANISM
HARMFUL  TO , OR  INJURIOUS  TO , OR  DESTRUCTIVE  OF  PLANTS , AND
FOR  THE  SANITATION  OF  PLANTS  IN SRI LANKA ; FOR  THE  REPEAL
OF  THE  PLANT  PROTECTION  ORDINANCE  (CHAPTER  447); AND  FOR
MA TTERS  CONNECTED  THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Plant Protection Act,
No. 35 of 1999.
PART I
A DMINISTRA TION  OF  THE  ACT
2. The Director-General of Agriculture (hereinafter in this
Act referred to as the “Director-General”) shall be in charge of
general administration of this Act by performing the functions
assigned or transferred to him by this Act.
3. The Director-General shall nominate such number of
officers as may be necessary for the purposes of assisting
him in carrying out or giving effect to the provisions of this
Act, who shall be known as “ authorised officers”
PART II
P
ROCEDURE
4. (1) It shall be lawful for the Director-General or authorised
officer having reasonable grounds therefor to enter with or
without assistants, at all reasonable times, upon any
Authorised
officers.
Entry on premises
for purpose of
inspection.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
Director-General
or authorised
officer or person
assisting them not
to be deemed
trespasser by
reason of entry
&c.
premises suspected to harbour a pest or pests for the purpose
of inspecting and examining whether a pest or pests exist
therein, and the importer of such pest or pests or the owner or
the occupier of such premises, as the case may be, shall afford
all reasonable facilities for such inspection and examination.
The identity of the authorised officer shall be shown to the
owner or occupier of the premises, before entry into the
premises.
(2) After inspection and examination referred to in sub-
section (1), if the Director-General or the authorised officer is
satisfied that a pest or pests exist in any premises, and having
regard to the nature of the pest or pests and the likelihood of
its of their spread, the Director-General or the authorised officer
shall communicate his decision, in writing with the reasons
therefor, to the importer of such pest or pests or owner or
occupier such premises directing such importer or owner or
occupier of such premises, as the case may be, to carry out
such measures or execute such work for the prevention of
spreading of such pest or pests, as may be specified in such
direction.
(3) It shall be the duty of the importer of such pest or
pests, owner or occupier of such premises, as the case may
be, to comply with any direction made by Director-General or
the authorised officer under sub section (2), unless such
importer, owner or occupier prefers an appeal against such
direction under section 9.
5. Neither the Director- General, nor any authorised
officer, or any person assisting them, shall be deemed a
trespasser by reason of any entry into any premises or
destruction of plant and plant products or action taken or
thing done under this Act or any regulation made thereunder,
or be liable to any damages or prosecution by reason of
anything done or omitted to be done in carrying out
any of the provisions of this Act or of any regulation
made thereunder, unless the same was done or omitted to be
done mala fide and without reasonable and probable cause.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
Power of the
Director-General
or authorised
officer to carry
out measurs or
execute work and
recover the
expenses
thereof.
6. (1) Where any importer of any pest or pests, or owner or
occupier of any premises is required or directed under section
4, to carry out any measures or to execute any work in or upon
any premises and if such person fails, neglects, or refuses to
comply with such requirement or direction, the Director-
General or an authorised officer with or without assistants
may enter such premises for the purpose of carrying out such
measures or executing such work.
(2) The Director-General or and  authorised officer
entering any premises under sub-section (1), may take with
him such equipment, machinery and vehicles as is or are
necessary for the purpose of facilitating the exercise of his
powers under sub-section (1).
(3) All reasonable expenses incurred by the Director-
General or any authorised officer for the purpose of carrying
out any measures or executing any work in or upon any
premises under sub section (1), and any expenses incurred by
the State shall be payable by the person who was required or
directed under section 4 to carry out such measures or execute
such work, and may be recovered from that person in the
manner hereafter provided.
(4) Any reasonable expenses payable by any person
under sub-section (3) may be recovered, upon application
made, by the Director-General or any authorised officer
authorised in that behalf by the Director-General to the
Magistrate’s Court within whose jurisdiction such person is
resident or the measures were carried out or the work was
executed, in like manner as a fine imposed by that court,
notwithstanding  that the amount of such expenses referred
to in sub-section (3) may exceed the amount of the fine which
such court may in the exercise of its ordinary jurisdiction impose.
(5) The imposition of a fine under sub-section (4) shall
not relieve such person from any prosecution for any offence
to which he may be liable by reason of his failure, neglect or
refusal to comply with the requirement or the direction made
under section 4.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
PART  III
Q UARANTINE  PESTS
7. (1) The Minister may, from time to time by Notification
in the Gazette, declare the quarantine pests which shall not be
imported into Sri Lanka as themselves or as infestations on
any plant or plant product unless imported under the
provisions of sub-section (6) of this section.
(2) If any persons has proof of the presence of a
quarantine pest or pests declared by the Minister under sub-
section (1) of this section, within any area in Sri Lanka he shall
forthwith inform in writing the presence of such pest or pests
to the Director-General.
(3) No person shall knowingly keep, sell, plant, release,
deliver, or otherwise dispose of, or knowingly cause or  permit
to be kept, sold, planted, released, delivered, or otherwise
disposed of, any plant or plant product infested with any
quarantine pest declared by the Minister under sub-section
(1) of this section, unless such person has specific written
instructions from the Director -General to do so.
(4) Nothing in sub-section (3),of this section shall
prohibit the destruction, or the delivery to the Director-General
or to an authorised officer, of any plant or plant product referred
to in sub-section (3) of this section.
(5) If the Director-General receives any information
regarding the presence of any quarantine pest or pests in any
area within Sri Lanka, he shall forthwith take such action as
may be deemed necessary to control such pest or pests.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, any
quarantine pest or pests declared by the Minister under sub-
section (1), or any plant or plant product infested by such
pest or pests may be imported into Sri Lanka strictly for
scientific studies by the Government of Sri Lanka after giving
notice to the Director-General, under the authority of an imports
Quarantine
pests.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
Permit issued by the Director-General, and in accordance with
such conditions including conditions as to the facilities and
trained personnel for the proper quarantine of the material
imported, as may be specified by the Director-General.
(7) The importation of quarantine pest or pests, or plant
or plants or plant products infested by such pests under
sub-section (6) shall be done only for the use of a government
department or a public corporation engaged in scientific
research and only if proper facilities including the trained
personnel specified by the Director-General are available in
such department or corporation for the containment and
quarantine of such pest or pests or such plants or such plant
products.
PART  IV
A
PPEALS
8. (1) There shall be established an Appeals Panel for the
purposes of this Act.
(2) The Appeals Panel shall consist of three members
appointed from a panel of fifteen persons consisting of
scientists who are qualified in the fields of Entomology, Plant
Pathology, Microbiology, Mycology, Virology or Nematology
who shall be appointed by the Secretary.
(3) The Secretary shall appoint one of the appointed
members to be the Chairman of such Appeals Panel.
9. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of the
Director-General or an authorised officer under sub-section
(2) of section 4, may within seventy-two hours of the
communication of such decision to him, appeal in writing
against such decision to the Secretary giving grounds for
such appeal.
(2) The appeal shall be accompanied by a monetary
deposit of such sum as may be specified by the Secretary in
the form of a bank draft or money order in favour of the
Director-General. The deposit  shall  be  refunded  only if the
Constitution
of the Appeals
Panel.
Appeals.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
appeal overrules the decision of the Director-General or
authorised officer as the case may be.
(3) The Appeals Panel established under section 8, shall
be appointed within two days and shall deliver its decision
within seven days after the receipt of the appeal by the
Secretary. The decision of the Appeal Panel shall be final and
conclusive and shall be communicated immediately by the
Secretary to the appellant and the Director-General or the
authorised officer.
(4) The members of the Appeals Panel may be paid such
remuneration as the Minister may determine in consultation
with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.
PART  V
O
FFENCES  AND  PENALTIES
10. (1) Every person who, without lawful authority or
excuse contravenes any provision of this Act or any regulation
made thereunder, or does or omits to do anything which under
the provisions of this Act or of any regulation made thereunder
he ought not to do, or omit, to do or if he resists or obstructs,
or assists in resisting or obstructing, or if he incites any person
to resist  or obstruct, the Director-General or any authorised
officer, or any person assisting them, in the implementation of
any provisions of this Act or any regulation made thereunder,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(2) Any person who is guilty of an offence under this
Act shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrate to
imprisonment of either description to a term not less than one
month and not exceeding six months, or to a fine not less than
ten thousand rupees and not exceeding one hundred thousand
rupees, or to both such fine and imprisonment.
(3) It shall be lawful for a Magistrate to summarily try
any offence against this Act or any regulation made
thereunder, notwithstanding that the punishment specified
for such offence is in excess of the ordinary Jurisdiction of
such Magistrate.
Offences.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
( 4 ) Any vehicle or carrier or other instrument,
contrivance, appliance, or thing used in, or in connection with
the commission of any offence against this Act shall by reason
of that conviction be forfeited to the State.
(5) Every person who, under pretence of performing any
act under the authority of this Act or of any regulation made
thereunder commits any unnecessary violence or causes, any
unnecessary loss or unnecessary annoyance to any person
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
11. Where an offence against this Act has been committed
by a body of person then-
(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, every
director, manager, secretary, or officer of that body
corporate; or
(b)if that body is a firm, every partner and every
manager of that firm,
shall be guilty of that offence unless he proves that the offence
was committed without his consent or concurrence and that
he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission of
such offence.
PART VI
G
ENERAL
12. (1) The Minister may make regulations with respect to
any matter required by this Act, to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are required or authorised to be made.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations:
(a)for the prevention of introduction into Sri Lanka, or
for the eradication, or for the prevention of
spreading therein of, pests, and for the export of
plants, plant products or organisms from Sri Lanka;
Offences
committed by a
body of persons.
Regulations.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
(b)for restricting or prohibiting the importation into
Sri Lanka of any plants, plants products and
organisms and for restricting or prohibiting the
entry points at which they may be landed;
(c)for restricting or prohibiting the landing in Sri Lanka
of plants, plant products and organisms, either
absolutely or conditionally;
(d)for providing for the importation of organisms under
special licence and conditions;
(e)for inspecting and or testing plants, plant products
and organisms at, before, or after, the time of
landing;
(f)for testing, cleaning, fumigating, or disinfecting, at
the expense of the importer and or the owner and if
expedient, destroying at, before, or after, landing
and without compensation, all plants, plant
products and organisms, or the packages, cases,
pots, or coverings in which they may be packed,
and which are found to be infected with any pest or
pests and for the recovery of prescribed fees for
such destruction from the importer and or owner;
(g)for requiring the quarantine of plants, plant
products and organisms imported or to be imported,
in special areas, and for fixing the conditions of
such quarantine and the fees to be charged therefor;
(h)for preventing the outbreak or dissemination of any
pest within Sri Lanka;
(i)for declaring any area to be an infested area, and
for the proper quarantine of an specified area
declared as being infested with any pest;
(i)for testing, treatment, destruction and proper
disposal, of plants or plant products affected or
likely to be affected with any pest;

<!-- page 10 -->

9Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
(k)for restricting or prohibiting the cultivation of any
plant or plants for a specified period or periods
within any specified area or areas in Sri Lanka;
(l)for regulating the transfer of plants, plant products
or organisms from one locality in Sri Lanka to
another;
(m) for the constitution of committees to advise the
Director-General and the authorised officers, and
to take such other action as may be necessary to
ensure the effective administration of the provisions
of this Act;
(n)for ensuring the phytosanitary status of the plants,
plant products or organisms exported from Sri
Lanka; and
(o)for charging fees for implementing the provisions
of this Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of publication or on such later date, as may be specified
in the regulation.
(4) Every regulation made under this Act shall have the
same force and effect as if they were contained in this Act.
(5) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any such regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(6) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.
13. (1) The Plant Protection Ordinance (Chapter 447) is
hereby repealed.
Repeal of
Chapter 447
and savings.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
( 2 ) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid
Ordinance every regulation made under the repealed Ordinance
as is in force on the date of commencement of this Act ,shall in
so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
be deemed to be a regulation made under this Act and may be
amended or rescinded by regulation made under this Act.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
PART VII
I
NTERPRETA TION
15. (1) In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-
“genetically modified” means an organism derived from any
activity which has involved or resulted in the
formation or derivation of new combinations of
heritable material by the insertion of nucleic acid
molecules, produced by whatever means outside the
cell, into any virus, bacterial plasmid, or other vector
system so as to allow their incorporation into a host
organism in which they do not naturally occur but in
which they are capable of continued propagation;
“Importer” means-
(a) any person who, whether as consignor,
consignee, agent, broker, or otherwise, is in
possession of, or in any way entitled to, the
custody or control of any plant, plant product
or organism;
(b) any person by whose act any plant, plant
product or organism has been landed in or
entered into Sri Lanka;
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 12 -->

11Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
“living modified” means an organism derived or produced
by altering or modifying the genetic material of an
organism through the use of biological techniques
such as recombinant DNA technology, molecular
biology, cell or tissue culture, cell fusion, artificial
mutagenesis, or through the use of a vector system
such as virus, phage, plasmid but not through the
ways that occur naturally by mating, mutation or
recombination processes;
“Minister” means the minister in charge of the subject of
Agriculture;
“Occupier” in relation to any premises includes the
proprietor, lessee, superintendent, manager, captain
of a ship or vessel or other person in actual charge of
such premises;
“Organism” included any active, infective, or dormant
stage of life form of an entity characterised as living,
including plants, bacteria, algae, fungi, phytoplasma,
mycoplasms, mycoplasma-like entities, protozoa,
vertebrate and invertebrate animals, as well as entities
such as viruses, viroids, plasmids, phages or any
living entity, related thereto, whether natural,
genetically modified, living modified, or otherwise;
“Owner” means the holder or possessor of any plant,
plant product or organism;
“pest” means any biotic agent capable of causing injury
or damage or loss to plants or plant products and
shall include weeds;
“plant” means all members of the plant Kingdom, whether
living or dead, or any part or parts thereof and
includes seeds;
“plant product” means all unprocessed material of plant
origin including grain and include those processed
products of plant origin that by their nature or by
reason of their processing, may create a risk for the
spread of pests;

<!-- page 13 -->

12 Plant Protection Act, No. 35 of 1999
“premises” includes any land, water reservior, building,
establishment, stores, freight, container, vehicle,
vessel, aircraft, or conveyance wholly or partly used
for keeping, storing, transporting, or growing plants
or for keeping, storing, or transporting plant
products;
“quarantine pest” means a pest of potential economic or
environmental importance to any area within Sri
Lanka and not yet present there, or present but not
widely distributed and being officially controlled;
“Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Ministry of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Agriculture; and
“weed” means a plant which is competitive, persistent,
pernicious and interfering with man and his activities.
(2) Any reference in this Act or regulations made
thereunder to a scientific name of any organism shall be
construed as a reference to all synonyms used for that
particular organism.
(3) Any reference in this Act and regulations made
thereunder to a particular pest shall be construed as a reference
to that pest in any stage of its existence.

<!-- page 14 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of  the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.