

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price :  Rs. 5.00  Postage  :  Rs. 5.00
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 24,  2009
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 24th July, 2009]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
SOCIETY  OF  STRUCTURAL  ENGINEERS
OF  SRI  LANKA  (INCORPORATION)
ACT,  NO . 40 OF  2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
1
Short title.
[Certified on 24th July, 2009]
L. D.—O. INC . 32/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  SOCIETY  OF  STRUCTURAL
ENGINEERS  OF  SRI LANKA
WHEREAS a society called and known as the “Society of
Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka” has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka, for the purpose of effectualy carrying
out and transacting all  objects and matters connected with
the said Society according to the rules agreed to by its
members :
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Society of Structural
Engineers of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009.
2. From and after date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of the Society
of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to
to as the “Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted members
of the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with
perpetual succession under the name and style of the “Society
of Structural Engeneers of Sri Lanka”, and by that name may
sue and be sued and have full power and authority to have
and use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to promote and advance the science and practice of
Structural Engineering in specified areas such as
buildings, bridges, towers, foundations and stadiums;
Preamble.
Incorporation of
Society of
Structural
Engineers of Sri
Lanka.
General objects of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
(b) to organize and  arrange seminars, lectures,
exhibitions, symposiam and discussions in relation
to Structural Engineering;
(c) to maintain libraries and publishing of papers and
books about Structural Engineering;
(d) to encourage research with a view to promoting
professional knowledge of Structural Engineering;
(e) to formulate appropriate standards for qualifications
of membership of Structural Engineers and to
conduct examinations and interviews and to grant
certificates in relation to Structural Engineering;
(f) to regulate the professional activities of the members
and to assist them in mainatining standards of
professional conduct of Structural Engineers;
(g) to encourage and assist in the settlement of disputes
of Structural Engineering by arbitration and to
nominate arbitrators.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power—
(a) to advance, borrow or raise money for the purposes
of the Corporation in such manner and upon such
security as the Corporation may think fit;
(b) to draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, buy,
sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, promissory
notes and other negotiable instruments and to open,
act, maintain and close bank accounts in Sri Lanka
and elsewhere;
(c) to enter into and perfom or carry out all such
agreements or contracts with any person or body of
General Powers of
the Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
3
 
persons in Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka as may be
necessary for the attainment of the objects or the
exercise of the powers of the Corporation;
(d) to undertake, accept, execute, perfom and administer
any trusts which may directly or indirectly be
conducive to the accomplishment of all or any of
the objects of the Corporation;
(e) to invest all moneys of the Corporation which are
not immediately required for the purpose of carrying
out the objects of the Corporation in securities of
the Government of Sri Lanka or in any other from
of investment;
(f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances, pensions and
gratuities as may be determined by the Executive
committee of the Corporation;
(g) to affiliate with any Organization, Associaiton or any
other Institution in Sri Lanka or outside whose
objects are similar to that of the Corporation;
(h) to appoint sub committees.
5. The management, control and administration of the
Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act and
rules of the Corporation made under section 6, vest in an
Executive Committee. The members of the Society holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of the coming
into operation of this Act shall be the office bearers of the
first Executive Committee until office bearers are chosen in
accordance with rules made under this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time, at any annual general meeting or at any general
meeting and by a majority of not less than two-third of the
Rules of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
members present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Act or any other written law, for
all or any of the following matters:—
(a) elegibility, qualifications and admission of members,
classification of membership and fees payable by
members,  cessation of membership, expulsion or
resignation;
(b) election of the members to the Executive Committee
of the Corporation, resignation from, vacation of or
removal from office as office bearers and powers,
duties and conduct of the Committee and the
Executive Committee;
(c) appointment, dismissal, powers, duties, funcitons
and conduct of the various employees of the
Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Executive Committee
of the Corporation or any disciplinary committee
thereof, filling of vacancies, notices and agenda of
such meetings, the quorum therefor and the conduct
of business thereat;
(e) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects
and the dissolution of the Corporation; and
(f) administration and management of the property of
the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Coporation under subsection
(1) shall be altered, added to, amended or rescinded at a like
meeting and in like manner as a rule made under
subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
5
7. (1) Every member of the Society who is qualified
under the rules made under the Act shall have the right to use
abbreviated designation “M.S.S.E. (S.L.)” after his name to
indicate that he is a Member.
(2) Every member of the Society who is registered as a
Fellow Member shall have the right to use the abbreviated
designation “F.S.S.E. (S.L.)” after his name to indicate that
he is a Fellow Member.
(3) Every member of the society who is registered as a
Honorary Fellow shall have the right to use the abbreviated
designation “Hon. F.S.S.E. (S.L.)” after his name to indicate
that he is a Honorary Member.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations or contributions shall be deposited to the
credit of the Fund of the Corporation in one or more banks as
may be decided by the Executive Committee of the
Corporation.
(2) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functions
and duties of the Corporation shall be paid out of the fund of
the Corporation.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, gift, grant
or testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such property
shall be held by the Corporaiton for the purposes of this Act
and subject to the rules of the Corporation made under
section 6, with full power to sell, mortgage or lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by him
to the Corporation.
Use of titles.
Funds of the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Limitation of
liabiltiy of
members.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
11. All debts and liabilties of the Society existing on the
day precding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
deemed to be debts and liabilities of the Corporation and shall
be paid by the Corporation and all debts due to, and
subscriptions and contributions payable to the Society on such
day shall be paid to the Corporation.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is or
are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any income
or property among its or their members. Such institution or
institutions may be determined by the Executive Committee
of the Corporation on or before the dissolution of the
Corporation.
13. Any expenses incurred by any person in any action
or prosecution instituted against him in respect of any act
which is done by him under this Act or on the direciton of the
Corporation shall be paid by the Corporation if the court holds
that act was done in good faith.
14. (1) The Executive Committee shall cause proper
books of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure,
assets and liabilities and all other transactions of the
Corporation.
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by one or more qualified
autitor or auditors.
(3) For the purposes of this section, “qualified auditor”
means—
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
Debts due by and
payable to the
Society.
Audits of
accounts.
Expenses incurred
by any person to
be paid by the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
7
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
15. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsover, except in the presence of the
persons duly authorized by Executive Committee who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
16. The Corporation shall have power to appoint
Disciplinary committees and to take such other steps as may
be necessary from time to time for the control of professional
standards and for the maintenance of discipline among the
members of the Corporation.
17. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Disciplinary
committees.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the State
and others.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Society of Structural Engineers of Sri Lanka
(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT
INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AW ATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.