

<!-- page 1 -->

PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  1
Price :  Rs.   8.25                                                                                                                  Postage  :  Rs.   4.50
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 04, 2003
—————————
—————————
[Certified on 01st April, 2003]
Printed  on  the  Order  of  Government
—————————
CITIZENSHIP   (AMENDMENT)
 ACT,  No.  16  OF  2003

<!-- page 2 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20031
2—H 016820—5,650 (2002/09)
[Certified on 01st April, 2003]
L. D.—O. 11/2002.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  CITIZENSHIP  ACT
Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Citizenship (Amendment)
Act, No.  16   of 2003.
2. Section 2 of the Citizenship Act (hereinafter referred
to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended by the
repeal of subsection (3) and the substitution therefor of the
following new subsection :—
“(3) Every person who has possessed of the
aforesaid status is hereinafter referred to as a “Citizen of
Sri Lanka.”.
3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution,
for the words “citizen of Ceylon by descent if at the
time of his birth his father is a citizen of Ceylon” of
the words “citizen of Sri Lanka if at the time of his
birth either of his parents is or was a citizen of Sri
Lanka.”; and
(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution ,
for the words  “citizen of Ceylon by descent if at the
time of his birth his father is a citizen of Ceylon” of
the words “citizen of Sri Lanka if at the time of his
birth either of his parents is or was a citizen of Sri
Lanka.”;
4. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 5 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 5
A  of that enactment :—
Amendment of
section 5 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 2 of
Chapter 349.
Short title.
Insertion of
section 5
A  in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20032
5A . (1) Any person who was born within
or outside Sri Lanka after the appointed date
but prior to the date of commencement of this
Act and—
(a) whose mother only was at the time of
his birth a citizen of Sri Lanka and he
is over twenty two years of age ; or
(b) neither of whose parents was at the
time of his birth a citizen of Sri Lanka
but at least one of his parents
subsequently becomes a citizen of
Sri Lanka ; and
shall be eligible to obtain the status of a citizen
of Sri Lanka in accordance with the succeeding
provisions of this section.
(2) A person referred to in subsection (1)
who is a citizen of any other country and who
desires to acquire Sri Lankan citizenship and
renounce citizenship of that other country, may
make an application to the Mnister for a
declaration that he has acquired the status of a
citizen of Sri Lanka if he renounces citizenship
of such other country, in accordance with the
law in force in that behalf in that other country
and he is, and intends to continue to be ordinarily
resident in Sri Lanka, and the Minister may
make the declaration for which the application
is made.
(3) A person referred to in subsection (1)
who is a citizen of any other country and who
desires to acquire Sri Lankan citizenship and to
also retain citizenship of that other country, may
make an application to the Minister, for a
declaration to the effect that he has acquired the
status of a citizen of Sri Lanka, notwithstanding
the fact that he is, and continues to be, a citizen
of that other country, and the Minister may make
“Eligibility of
persons born
prior to the
date of
commencement
of this Act.

<!-- page 4 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20033
the declaration for which the application is
made, if he is satisfied that the making of such
declaration would in all the circumstances of
the case, be of benefit to Sri Lanka.
(4) When a declaration is made under
this section, the Minister shall specify the
date with effect from which such person
shall have acquired the status of a citizen of
Sri Lanka.
(5) The provisions of subsection (7) of
section 19 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to a
person who has acquired the status of a citizen
of Sri Lanka by virtue of the preceding
provisions of this section.
(6) The provisions of section 26 of the
principal enactment relating to the  payment of
fees, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to the
application of a person under this section.”.
5. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 6 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 6
A  of that enactment :—
6A . (1) Any person who is a citizen of Sri
Lanka by virtue of the provisions of section 5,
may if he so desires, apply to the Controller of
Immigration and Emigration for a Certificate
of citizenship. The application shall be
substantially in the Form set out in Schedule A
hereto.
(2) The Controller shall upon being
satisfied of the status of the applicant, issue to
the applicant, within sixty days of the receipt of
the application, a Certificate, substantially in the
Form set out in Schedule B hereto.
Insertion of new
section 6A  in the
principal
enactment.
“Issue of
Certificate of
citizenship on
application
made.

<!-- page 5 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20034
(3) Where such Certificate is to be issued
in relation to a minor child, the application for
the same may be made on behalf of such minor
child, by either parent.
(4) No person shall require the production
of a Certificate referred to in subsection (2) for
any purpose and an affidavit shall be accepted
as prima facie evidence of the facts stated
therein.
6. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
7. Section 10 of the principal enactment is
hereby amended by the substitution for the words “father” or
“father’s” wherever such words appear in that section, of the
words “father or mother” or “father’s or mother’s”
respectively.
8. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section—
(a) by the repeal of sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph
(b) of that subsection ;
(b) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (ii) of
paragraph (b) of that subsection, for the
words “whose father was a citizen of Ceylon
by descent of the words, words“ either of
whose parents was a citizen of Sri Lanka” ;
and
(c) by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (iii) of
paragraph (b) of that subsection, for the words
whose father, having been a citizen of Ceylon
by descent of the words “either of whose
parents, having been a citizen of Sri Lanka” ;
Amendment of
section 10 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 11 of the
principal
enactment.
Repeal of section
9 of the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 6 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20035
(2) by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of
that section.
9. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section.
10. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
11. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.
12. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution
in the definition of the expression “minor child”, for
the words “twenty one years” of the words “eighteen
years” ; and
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “twenty one years” of the words
“eighteen years”.
13. The following Schedule is hereby added immediately
after section 28 of the principal enactment :—
SCHEDULE  A [Section 6 A ]
APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFICATE OF CITIZENSHIP
 UNDER SECTION 6 A OF THE CITIZENSHIP ACT [CHAPTER 349]
1. I ……………… being the applicant*/a parent* of ……… a minor
child hereby apply for a certificate of citizenship for myself*/my child
aforementioned,* in terms of section 6
A  of the Act.
2. I hereby declare that I am,*/my child aforementioned is* a citizen of
Sri Lanka by virtue of the provisions of section 5 of the Act.
3. I set out below particulars relating to mayself*/my child
aforementioned*.
• delete whichever is inapplicable
Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.
Repeal of section
23 of the principal
enactrment.
Repeal of section
24 of the principal
enactrment.
Amendment of
section 28 of the
principal
enactment.
Addition of
Schedules in the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20036
(a) Full Name : ……………
(b) Address : ……………
(c) Sex : Male/Female
(d) Date fo Birth :
(e) Place of Birth :
(f) If born outside Sri Lanka, place of registration of birth :
(g) Particulars of parents—
Father Mother
Name : Name :
Whether citizen of Sri Lanka : Whether citizen of Sri Lanka :
N.I.C. No. (if any) : N.I.C. No. (if any) :
Residential Address : Residential Address :
………………… …………………
………………… …………………
………………… …………………
DECLARA TION
4. I declare that I am not/my child aforementioned is not, a citizen of any
other Country.
I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm/swear that the
foregoing particulars are, to the best of my knowledge true.
……………………………………
Signature or thumb impression of
Applicant.
Date : …………
•Affirmed*/sworn at ……… this day of ………… before me.
……………………………………
Signature of Justice of the Peace or
Commissioner of Oaths.
Name and address of the Justice of the
Peace or Commissioner of Oaths : …………………
…………………
…………………

<!-- page 8 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20037
SCHEDULE  B (Section 6 A )
CERTIFICATE OF CITIZENSHIP OF SRI LANKA UNDER
SECTION 6 A  OF THE CITIZENSHIP ACT [ CHAPTER  349]
By virtue of the powers conferred on me by the provisions of section 6A
of the Act, I …………………, Controller of Immigration and Emigration,
do hereby certify that …………………… of ………………………………
(state name) (state address)
is a citizen of Sri Lanka by virtue of the provisions of section 5 of the Act.
PARTICULARS RELA TING TO CITIZEN
Name : ………
Name of Parent(s) who is a citizen/who are citizens :
(1) …………………
(2) …………………
Date and place of birth : ………………
Sex : …………………
Identity Card No. (if any) : …………………
Date : Controller of Immigration and Emigration.
14. Where a person who was registered under paragraph
(a) of subsection (2) of section 11, as a citizen of Sri Lanka
prior to the date of commencement of this Act, acquires, by
reason of the operation of the amendment made to section 5
of the principal enactment, by section 2 of this Act, the status
of a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent, such person shall deemed
to have become a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent, with effect
from the date of the commencement of this Act.
15. In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Registered
persons deemed to
be citizens by
descent.

<!-- page 9 -->

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20038
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , NO . 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.