

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
w;s úfYI
wxl 1809$12 - 2013 uehs ui 09 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'05'09
No. 1809/12  - THURSDAY,  MAY  09,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL   NOTIFICATION
Uva Province Provincial Council
STATUTE OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTERS OF UV A PROVINCE No. 01 OF 2013
THE above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 04th April 2013 has been
approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on  22nd of April 2011 and which is hereby published for the notification
of the Public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
King Street, Badulla,
23rd  April, 2013.
CHARTER  FOR   CHILD   DEVELOPMENT   CENTERS    No. 1   DATED   OF   THE   UV A
PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
This is a Charter intended for making statutory provision for registration, supervision, administration
and conducting of institutions meant for protection and development of children who are deserted, helpless,
orphaned and subjected to abuse, resident within the Province of Uva, and for other affairs incidental to, or
connected with such matters.
This Charter shall render (Chapter 142) of the Orphanage Act, No. 22 of 1941 incompatible and the
Chapter 50, 51 of the Children and Youth Act, No. 48 of 1939 incompatible.
1. Uva Province Provincial Council of Sri Lanka Democratic Socialistic Republic do hereby
enact as follows
This charter shall be cited as the Charter for Child Development Center No. 1 of Uva Province
Provincial Council, and shall come into operation from the day it received the approval of the
Governor of the Uva Province.
Brief title
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
PART - 1
Functions and Objectives
2. The objectives of this Charter is to perform the under mentioned functions for the well-being
of the children in the Uva Province of eighteen years of age, from birth who are deserted,
helpless orphaned and subjected to abuse.
(1) Provide care, custody and safety within the residential environment
(2) Provide a balance diet agreeable to age and growth.
(3) Provide clothing and ornaments that are hygienic and compatible with the environment ;
(4) Provide mental security and facilities needed for mental development ;
(5) Province formal and informal education and vocational training as appropriate ;
(6) Provide aesthetic and sports facilities with a view to improving skills and creative
abilities ;
(7) Provide facilities required for improving power of appreciation ;
(8) Provide library and such other facilities required for improving knowledge and intelligence ;
(9) Provide facilities required for cultural moral, religious  and spiritual development ;
(10) Build up a sound relationship with the custodians and the relatives, and do the needful
as and when appropriate.
3. The Governor should appoint  the Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care
Service, hereinafter referred to as the Commissioner where the power shall be vested to
conduct, supervise and administer the functions indicated in this Charter and the commisioner
should be an officer of first class in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, He can appoint Deputy,
Assistant Commissioners, Probation Officers and other suitable officers where he feels as
necessary for his assistance.
PART II
Registration, Cancellation of Registration and Management of Child Development Centers
4. Every institution in the Uva Province that takes care of resident children, below eighteen
years of age, who are deserted, helpless, orphaned and subjected to abuse shall be considered
as Child Development Centers with effect from the date of implementation of this Charter.
5. Every Child Development Center in the Province of Uva  shall have to be registered under this
Charter
(1) All institutions-Government, Semi-government and Non-government that operated
Children Homes prior to the effective date of this Charter shall have to be re-registered
as Child Development Centers with the Department of Probation of Childcare Service of
the Uva Province.
(2) Registration shall only be permitted, based on each Divisional Secretary Division having
considered the prior inspection done by the Commissioner. The registration shall have
to be renewed after a review done once in three years. A register shall have to be
maintained in respect of Child Development Centers applied for registration while eligible
centers shall have to be registered.
(3) Every Child Development Center started after the date of operation of this Charter shall
have to be registered under this Charter, and the Children shall have to be admitted by
the Commissioner himself only after the registration of the center.
Objectives of the
Charter
Functions of the
Provincial
Commissioner of
Probation and
Child Care
Service
Child
Development
Centers
Registration
Compulsory

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
6. Request for re-registration made by every center under clause - 5 above, shall have to posses
the following qualifications.
(1) The institution shall have to be a registered government, Semi-government, Non-
government or any other organization affiliated to the Government having a statute
aimed at running a Child Development Center.
(2) A Child Development Center already in operation shall have to possess a minimum of
ten children to qualify itself for registration.
(3) An institution running a Child Development Center shall have to possess legal ownership
of all moves and immovable property of the Center.
(4) An institution that runs a Child Development Center shall have to be in possession of
a fixed fund not less than Rs. 500,000.
(5) The Child Development Centers shall have to be run in accordance with the Standards
specified by the Commissioner of Childcare and Probation Service indicated in Schedule
No. 3 of this Charter.
7. Requests for registration of Child Development Centers shall have to be made to the
Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services by the Manager of the Center on an
application form prepared according to the format specified in Schedule - 1 of this Charter.
8. Upon receipt of an application for registration of a Child Development Center, the Commissioner
shall order the Probation Officer in charge of respective divisions to submit a report to him on
matters below
(1) Whether the relevant at Child Development Center has fulfilled all the requirements
needed for registration mentioned in clause 06 ; and
(2) Whether the Center is running at the moment in accordance with the orders already
issued by the Minister under clause - 24 of this Charter ;
9. The relevant report shall have to be submitted to the Commissioner by the aforesaid officer
within four weeks upon receipt of the Order mentioned in Clause - 8
10. Upon receiving the report mentioned in clause - 9 of this Charter, the Commissioner shall visit
a Child Development Center and inspect whether the requirements mentioned in clause - 6
have been fulfilled or not, whether the Center is in accordance with the standards specified
and whether the Center is capable of operating to bring about the maximum well-being of the
resident children.
11. After the inspections of Commissioner specified in clause - 10 above, if he is fully satisfied, he
shall take steps to register the relevant Child Development Center and to enter into an agreement
with them laying down specified conditions within three months from the date of inspection.
12. (1) On receipt of the report mentioned above clause 9, and having entered into an agreement
with the Child Development Center that has fulfilled all requirements needed for its
registration, the Commissioner shall issue a Certificate to the respective Center according
to the format shown in schedule - 02 ;
Eligibility for
Registration
Mode of Request
for Registration
Calling for
Reports
Submission of
Report
Inspection by the
Commissioner
Registration
The Registration
Certificate

<!-- page 4 -->

4A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
(2) The first registration shall be valid for three years from the date of its registration, The
Commissioner has the power to extend the validity of such registration by further one
year upon a request made to him by the Manager of the Center three months prior to the
date expiry of its validity, Every request made for such extension shall be subjected to
the provisions in clause 06 to 09 of this Charter.
(3) The Commissioner shall maintain a register in which he shall record the name of the
registered Child Development Center, its postal address, registration number, the date
of registration and whatever other information deemed necessary in the opinion of
commissioner.
13. A Child Development Center applying for registration, if found have not fulfilled the required
conditions as per clause - 6 of the Charter, the Commissioner shall turn down such application
and notify the Manager of the Center, giving reasons for his inability to register the Center.
14. If the Manager of the Child Development Center is not satisfied with the notification made
known to him, under clause - 13, he shall made an appeal to the Commissioner within thirty
days from the date of receipt of such notification.
15. An appeal under clause - 14 when received by the Commissioner, he shall conduct and inquiry
personally within fourteen days from the date of its and shall take one of the decision shown
below
(1) If registration is not possible to inform the Manager of his decision along with reasons
for his inability to register the Center.
(2) If the Commissioner decides that registration is possible, to take necessary steps to
register the Center.
(3) To allow a period of grace not exceeding three months to complete the requirements
under clause - 6.
16. (1) A Manager, who is dissatisfied with Commissioner's decision, shall make only one
appeal to the Secretary within one month from the date of such decision.
(2) At the expiry of the grace period given under Para - 3 of clause - 15, the Commissioner
shall re-inspect the center and shall decide  whether to register the Center or not, and
inform the Manager of his decision he has arrived at.
(3) According to the above Sub Clause (1), when an appeal has arrived, the Secretary shall
give a decision after conducting an inspection and the decision given by the Secretary
shall be the final decision.
17. The Commissioner shall have the power to cancel a Child Development Center registration in
on the situation shown below after having inspected the Center personally by him or by any
other officer authorized by him.
(1) In a situation where a proposal has adopted by a majority of votes at a Statutory
meeting of an (NGO) Non-Government Organization that runs a Child Development
Center and  decided that the Center cannot be functioned any further, the Commissioner
shall have to be intimated for this situation in writing three months before the intended
date of closure, and which intimation is accepted by the Commissioner.
Notify the
inability to
register
Appeal
Decisions on
Appeal
Implementation
of Decisions
Cancellation of
Registration

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
(2) In a situation where an Appropriate Authority cannot be appointed under Clause 3, or
where the Appointed Officer is unable to carry on with his functions.
(3) In a situation where the Board of Control of a Child Development Center does not run
the center in accordance with the standards specified in Schedule - 3 of Clause 24, and
fail to comply with the order, regulations, stipulations and circulars issued from time to
time.
(4) When new Board of Control for the Child Development Center cannot be appointed
under clauses - 39
(5) When the management of the Center defaults on the conditions laid down in the
Agreement entered into under clause - 11, or fails to fulfill such conditions.
18. It the Commissioner decides that the registration of a particular Center shall have to be
cancelled, he shall inform the Manager of the Center, of his decision by registered post within
thirty days from the date of arriving at such decision.
19. If the Manager of the Child Development Center or the Board of Control disagrees to the
decision mentioned in Clause - 18, the Manager shall make an appeal to the Secretary through
the Commissioner by registered post within fourteen days from the date of his receiving the
Commissioner's decision.
(1) in the event of making an appeal under this clause, the Manager or the Board of Control
shall have the power to carry on with the functions of the Center till the decision of the
Secretary referred to in clause - 20 is received by them. Nevertheless such functions
have to be executed only under the advice and supervision of the Commissioner.
20. The Secretary shall take action as indicated below, upon his receipt of an appeal under clause
- 19 of this Charter.
(1) After an inspection conducted by a Board of Control Comprising two members who are
of the same grade, or in  a higher grade than the Commissioner's one of the actions
mentioned below shall have to be taken by the Secretary.
(a) Confirm the cancellation of registration ;
(b) Postpone the cancellation of registration by three months maximum till the
conditions laid down by the Secretary are fulfilled, relevant to the Commissioner's
decision.
(2) (a) The decision taken by the Secretary under sub-section - 1, above, shall be
conveyed to the Manager in writing with a copy to the Commissioner within one
month from the date of receipt of the appeal
(b) The Secretary shall make a re-inspection at the expiry of the period of time given
to the Child Development Center under clause 20 (1)(b) and take action as per
clause 20(1)(a)
21. All children who are not on a court order, resident in a Child Development Center, the
registration of which has been cancelled under clause - 20(1)(a) and (b), shall have to be
handed over to their parents or guardians and transfers the rest to another Child Development
Center having facilities of warship, after taking into consideration their sex and nationality by
the Commissioner or by  any other probation officer authorized by him.
Notifying the
Cancellation of
Registration
Forwarding of
appeals
Decision of the
Secretary
Steps to be
adopted when
registration is
cancelled

<!-- page 6 -->

6A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
22. The assets provided by the Government or by V oluntary Services Association or by individuals
or by institutions to a Child Development Center, the registration of which has been cancelled,
shall be taken into the custody of the Department or transferred to another registered center
determined by the probation officers in-charge authorized by him.
23. A Manager and a Board of Control shall be appointed to a Child Development Center, subject
to following conditions.
(1) The Board of Control shall be composed of a Chairman, a Vice Chairman, a Secretary, as
Assistant Secretary, a Treasurer, a Manager and Seven Committee Members. If the
Manager is a foreigner, a Co-Manager shall have to be appointed.
(2) The Treasurer of a Child Development Center and it Co-Manager shall have to be
citizens of Sri Lanka.
(3) The Co-Manager and at least three members of the Board of Control shall have to be
permanent residents of the Province of Uva.
(4) The members of the Board of Control and the Chairman of the Child Development
Center shall have to be persons who are not convicted of any criminal offences and
punished by a Court of Law.
24. The minimum standards needed for uplifting the position of a Child Development Center shall
have to be in accordance with the orders and stipulations issued by the Provincial Commissioner
of Probation and Child Care Services, such orders shall have to be adhered to by the Manager
and the Board of Control of the Child Development Center.
25. All matters connected with the registration of a Child Development Center including other
matters that have to be dealt with in regard to the center and all official correspondence done
with the Probation and Child Care Services Department shall have to be solely handled by the
Manager of the Center.
26. In addition to the Board of Control, the Child Development Center shall have a working staff
to look after the resident children and the staff members shall have to posses the following
minimum qualifications.
(1) The Matron (male/female) shall have to be a person who has sat for G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination ;
(2) Shall have to possess an exemplary moral character ;
(3) Shall have to be a person with the same religious faith similar to that of the resident
children in the center ;
(4) Shall have to be a person with a sound family background and shall be capable of
shouldering responsibilities.
(5) Shall have to be a person with a sound mental and physical health ;
(6) Shall possess good personality
Transfer of
assets of a
center, the
registration of
which has been
cancelled
Composition of
the Board of
Control
Standards shall
have to be
proclaimed and
adhered to
The Manager
acting in liue of
the Board of
Control of the
Child
Development
Center
Qualification of
the working staff
of the Center

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
PART III
Admission to Child Development Center, Supervision and Establishment of Centers and Rendering the
Board of Control Intellective.
27. (1) No child shall be admitted to a registered Child Development Center without the approval
of the Commissioner, However, the Board of Control shall admit a child to registered
Child Development Center without the Commissioner's approval on justifiable reasons.
Such admissions shall not exceed 5% of the total number of children approved for the
center, Nevertheless, the covering approval for such admission shall have to be obtained
the Commissioner within seven days.
(2) No child shall be admitted to a Child Development Center in contrary to the classifications
of the Commissioner with regards to age limit, sex and religious faith specified at the
time, the Center was registered. Opportunities shall be provided for the children who
are admitted in that way to devote his religion in the Center.
28. The Manager, The Board of Control and the staff shall comply with the instructions issued by
the Commissioner or the Probation Officer in charge or the Probation Officer in charge of
supervision of a Child Development Center, when making a placement of a child in a registered
center for his/her well being.
29. At the time of registration a Child Development Center, the Probation Officer responsible for
making reported shall inquire into each child's background and ascertain whether they come
under the category of orphaned deserted and helpless children or children subjected to
abuse, and prepare a separate report in respect of each child and submit them to the
Commissioner.
30. A Probation Officer shall have to be appointed to supervise each Child Development Center.
The Commissioner of Child Care and Probation Service, the Probation Officer in charge of
supervision Child Development Center, the Probation Officer in charge of the Center or any
Probation Officer or a staff officer of the Department authorized by the Commissioner shall
visit a Center any time of the day for inspection. the Manager or the Board of Control or any
other person shall not obstruct any other person shall not obstruct any such inspections.
No official of a Government or Non-Government Institution or Organization shall not conduct
an internal inquiry without the prior permission of the Commissioner, expect in the case of
general security of the Center.
32. Determining of resident Children in a Child Development Center in operation and installing
them have to be done only with the approval of the Commissioner.
(1) According to a report received under Clause - 29, if the children resident in a Child
Development Center come under the category of deserted helpless and children
subjected to abuse, they shall be kept in the Center for three years maximum from the
date of their admission, having informed the Commissioner in advance. Nevertheless
the Commissioner shall extended the above period as necessity demands.
(2) Based on the report under clause - 29, ft. the commissioner concludes that the children,
in his opinion, do not come under the category of deserted helpless orphaned or
Admission of
children to Child
Development
Centers
Complying with
instructions and
placement of
children
Prepare a
separate report
for each child
Supervision of
Child
Development
Centers

<!-- page 8 -->

8A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
children subjected to abuse, the Commissioner shall order the Manager or install them
as specified by him within three months from the date of such order.
(3) The Manager shall take the actions to implement establishment committee decisions.
32. The Manager shall take steps to provide information and report correctly within the requested
time when the Commissioner or the Probation Officer in charge or the Probation Officer in
charge of supervision makes a writing request any reports or information.
33. The Manager, the Board of Control or the working staff of a Child Development Center fails to
discharge specified under the Clause 27 and 31, the Commissioner shall send the Manager a
final notice in writing under registered post specifying the last date to finalize the unfinished
work. If the Manager is unable to comply with the above notice he shall submit his explanation
in writing to the Commissioner with reasons for his inability comply with the notice.
34. Upon receipt of the Manager's explanation the Commissioner shall appoint two Probation
Officers to hold an inquiry into the matter, and thereafter he shall take one of the following
lines of action
(1) Ordering the Manager Board of Control and or the staff members to take necessary
action as appropriate issued under Clause 27 and 31 within the period ordered under
clause 32.
(2) Ordering the Manager to comply with the instruction and stipulations issued under
Clause - 27 subjected to revision made thereto.
or else
(3) To notify that complying with instructions, or fulfilling of stipulations or furnishing of
reports and information mentioned under Clause 27 by the Commissioner, or by the
Probation Officer in charge or by the Probation Officer in Charge of supervision or
provision of information and reports as ordered under Clause 31 shall not be necessary.
(4) The Commissioner shall convey his decision to the Manager in writing within 30 days
from the date of receipt of a clarification under Clause - 32, Such decision shall have to
be conveyed under registered post with a copy to the Probation Officer.
35. The decision made by the Commissioner under Clause - 34 shall be final
36. The Commissioner shall have the power to render the Manager and the Board Control of a
Child Development Center powerless and appoint an Appropriate Authority and entrust him
the task of running the Center, in the event of the Manager, the Board of control and the
working staff of a Child Development Center fails to comply with the instructions and carry
out the orders specified in clause - 27 before the final date given in clause - 32, or defaulting
submission of reports and furnishing information under clause - 31 or evading actions to be
taken under clause - 32, or not complying with the decision arrived at under the provision in
clause - 33.
(1) The Commissioner shall take step to appoint a staff officer of the Provincial Government
Service as Appropriate Authority after he render any Child Development Center
powerless.
Provision of
information and
reports
Final Notice
Inquiry to be held
by the
Commissioner
Commissioner's
decision in final
Appointing an
Appropriate
Authority

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
37. Subsequent to the appointing of an Appropriate Authority by the Commissioner under the
provisions of clause - 36
(1) The manager of the Board of Control or the working staff shall not participate or have
a hand in any activity of the Child Development Center.
(2) The Manager or a member of the Board of Control or anyone in the working staff shall
not enter the Child Development Center premises or a building thereof without the
written permission of the Commissioner.
38. The Commissioner shall notify the Manager  in writing immediately after the appoints an
Appropriate Authority under Clause - 36, making him aware of it. On receipt of such notification
the Manager or the Board of Control, the person who has the power of authority, or the owner
or the working staff shall take steps to hand over all documents, movable and immovable
property and cash including the Bank Account to the Appropriate Authority in writing along
with the possession of the Child Development Center.
39. The Commissioner shall appoint a new Manager and new Board of Control in lieu of the
Manager and the Board of Control that has been rendered powerless, within three months
from the date of appointing the Appropriate Authority.
(1) The Commissioner shall invite the writing all the members of the organization who were
responsible for running the former Child Development Center, to a meeting in order to
appoint a new Board of Control and a new Manager. They shall be appointed by secret
ballot.
(2) The Ex-Manager and the Board of Control shall not be considered for re-appointment
when appointing the new Manage and the new Board of Control. They shall be
considered for office only after three years from the date of new appointment.
(3) The Appropriate Authority shall hand over all documents, movable and immovable
property and the possession of the Center to the Manager newly appointed under sub-
section - (1) above, within seven days from the dated his appointment, Besides he shall
have the authority to conduct the Center from the day he takes over the institution.
(4) In the event, the Commissioner does not get the opportunity to act according to sub-
section - 01 above during the period specified, the Appropriated Authority shall have
the power to carry on with the work of the Center beyond three months while the
Commissioner shall retain the power of placement of children in the Center.
PART IV
Provincial Child Protection Center for Receiving Children
40. The Provincial Council shall have a Child Development Center to receive abused, deserted,
helpless and orphaned children below six years of age and ti shall come under the administration
of the Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Service.
41. When a person comes to know that a child below six years of age has been deserted or
orphaned, he shall bring this matter to the notice of the Officer in Charge of the area or to any
other police officer, or to the Grama Niladhari of the Division or to an officer in the Probation
and Child Care Service Department, or thereafter the child shall have to be admitted to a
hospital by some authorized officer.
The Manager or
the Board of
Control not to
intervene in the
activities of the
Child
Development
Center
Handling over of
Assets
Appointing a
new Board of
Control
Provincial
Council shall
have Child
Development
Centers
Informing about
orphaned
children and
admitting them
to hospital
5—PG 001627

<!-- page 10 -->

10A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
42 (1) A child that has been admitted to a hospital, after been treated, the medical officer in
Charge of the hospital or by any other officer authorized by him shall take steps to admit
the child to Provincial Child Development Center having obtained the approval of the
Commissioner. It is the responsibility of the Provincial Commissioner to ensure that the
child has been given a formal acceptance at the receiving center.
(2) in the event of such child is found or be abused and needs a Court Order the Police have
to be informed of the situation by the Medical Officer in charge of the hospital, or by
any other officer authorized by him.
43 (1) The registration of birth of very child born in hospital who becomes deserted or orphaned,
the preliminary action to register its birth shall have to be taken by the hospital, prior to
discharging the child in case the child is admitted to a Child Development Receiving
Center, It is the duty of the Commissioner to ascertain whether its birth is registered or
not. If the registration of birth has not been done the Commissioner shall have to take
action to get its birth registered.
(2) In the event, the child has been deserted in some place other than is a hospital, and
ascertains that the child does not possess a certificate of birth or apparently there is
now way of finding out its birth certificate, ti shall be the responsibility of the
Commissioner to take action forthwith to provide the child with a Birth Certificate.
44. The Probation Officer in charge , or any other Probation Officer of Authorized by the
Commissioner shall submit a detailed report in respect of every child admitted to the Provincial
Child Development Center meant for receiving children. Besides, this detailed report shall
have to be made available to the Commissioner within 30 days from the date of admission of
the child.
45. Placement activities of children admitted to the Provincial Child Development Center shall be
done by the Commissioner in accordance with the recommendation of the Committee for
placement.
46. The composition of the working staff of the Provincial Child Development Center established
under the Clause - 40 shall be a follows :
(1) Matron in Charge of the Center ;
(2) Assistant Matron ;
(3) Mother in Charge ;
(4) Pre School Teacher ;
(5) Cook
(6) Driver ;
(7) Labourer
(8) Sanitary Labourer.
The Commissioner shall have the power to make changes in the working staff as a when
necessary, subject to prior approval of the Secretary to the relevant Ministry.
To admit to a
Child
Development
Center
Registration of
birth and
submission of
examination
reports
Installing
Activities
Presence of a
Working Staff of
the Provincial
Child
Development
Center

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
PART V
47 Offence and Punishment
(1) Abusing or abducting a child resident in a Child Development Center by the Manager
of by any member of the Board of Control or of the working staff, and aiding and
abetting or providing opportunity to any other person to commit such an act shall be
guilty of an offences punishable by law.
(2) Any child who comes within the jurisdiction of the Commissioner, under this Charter,
shall not be used for commercial advertisement by anyone with a commercial motive
except with the prior written approval of the Commissioner and the consent of the
parents or guardians of the child.
48. Any member of the Board of Control or the working staff of a Child Development Center
evades furnishing reports or information specified under this Charter, before or after the
registration of the Center, shall be considered to have committed an offence.
(1) A person who deliberately includes false information in any report or statements
furnished by him, or violates any order, regulation or stipulation specified in this Charter
or enacted under this Charter shall be considered to have committed an offence.
(2) In case, no punishment is specified for a particular offence under this Charter a person
who commits such offences shall be produced before a Magistrate and after a summary
trial is found guilty, he shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 1,00,000 or to imprisonment
for a term not less than two years and not exceeding five years or both fine and
imprisonment.
(3) A person or a group of people or any organization functioning a Child Development
Center without a Certificate of Registration shall be considered to have committed an
offence under this Charter, such offenders shall be prosecuted in a Magistrate Court,
and if they found guilty each person shall be liable to a fine not exceeding  (Rs. 5,000)
rupees five thousand or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment.
(4) In the event, an offence has been committed under this Charter by Board of individuals.
(a) if the Board is a Corporation, every Director and every Officer of the Board ;
(b) if the Board is a business enterprises, every partner in it ;
(c) if the Board is Board of Control operating a Child Development Center, every
member of the Board.
Shall be guilty of such offence, Nevertheless, if the Director and the officials i such
corporation, or the parties in such business enterprises, or members of the such Board
of Control are able to prove beyond all doubt that the offenses in question has been
committed without their knowledge, or that they genuinely have taken all steps to
prevents such offences being committed, they shall not be considered guilty of such
offence.
Not to abuse or
abduct
Offences and
punishment

<!-- page 12 -->

12A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
(5) A member of Child Development Center, or a member of its Board Control, or a member
of its Board of Control, or a member of its working staff who is fund guilty of an offence
by a Court of Law shall not be eligible to hold any position in a Child Development
Center in future.
PART VI
Finding Financial Provision and Auditing
49 (1) Financial provision needed for the institutions established under this Charter shall be
provided under the Annual Financial Statement of the Provincial Council and by the
estimates and aids and grants received.
(2) Provisions of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 shall be applicable to auditing of
activities relevant to this Charter.
PART VII
Composition of the Probation and Child Care Service Department and its powers.
50. A sufficient number of Probation Officers and working staff have to be there to assist the
Commissioner in his duties.
51. The Commissioner shall delegate his powers to Probation Officer to accomplish the tasks
under this Charter.
52. (1) Child who is in the custody of a registered Provincial Child Development Center shall be
paid a calculated maintenance grant, but the child shall not be entitled to this grant until
the lapse of twelve months from the date of registration of the Center.
(2) The respective Provincial Minister shall have the power to revise this Maintenance
Grant from time to time.
53. Payment of fit and proper financial assistance shall be paid to the Child Development Center
registered under this Charter for the purpose of constructing buildings and procuring equipment
required by them.
54. At an annual general meeting of an organization or a semi-government institution or a
government institution, the Manager who shall be annually appointed by a majority of votes,
shall have to prepare an annual financial statement in respect of his Child Development
Center. This statement shall have to be submitted to the Commissioner on or before 31st
January of the following year.
55. The respective Provincial Minister shall have the power to made regulation relevant to this
Charter, He is also empowered to make regulations under this Charter on matters that come
under the objective of the Charter including matters mentioned below :
(1) Deciding standards for Child Development Center ;
(2) Maintaining of accounts in respect of centers  and resident children by Child Development
Center.
56. Regulation made by the respective Provincial Minister shall be gazetted and shall have to be
submitted to the Provincial Council at the earliest.
Provision of
funds
Working staff
Delegation of
powers
Payment of
Maintenance
Payment of
proper financial
assistance
Submission of
Annual
Statement of
Account
Making
regulations

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
57. The Provincial Council shall approve, revise or rescind such regulations and a notification in
respect of them shall have to be gazetted.
58. When approving, revising or rescinding any regulation made by the respective Provincial
Minister, such regulation shall have to be considered as rescinded without prejudice to any
course of action hitherto taken under them.
59. In this charter, unless the context otherwise requires :
“Provincial Council” means Uva Province Provincial Council.
“Governor” means the Governor of Uva Province
“Minister” means the Minister in Charge or Probation and Child Care Services of the Uva
Province Provincial Council
“Secretary” Means the Secretary to the Minister in Charge of Probation and Child Care
Service of the Uva  Province Provincial Council.
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of Child Care and Probation Service of the Uva
Province.
“Probation Officer” means an officer appointed under Clause 117 of the Offenders taken
into custody on Probation Act, No. 42 of 1944.
“Appointed Authority” means a Staff Officer in the Uva  Province Provincial Government
Service appointed by the Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Services.
“Provincial Child Development Center for Receiving Children” means an institution run by
the Provincial Probation and Child Care Service meant for taking are of children who are
deserted, helpless, orphaned and abused, resident in Center.
“Child Development Center” means all types of registered Government, Semi-Government,
Non-Government Institutions including Development Centers and Houses run by
voluntary associations registered with the government meant for receiving children who
are abused, deserted, helpless and orphaned including pregnant children and child-
mothers referred to by the Courts and providing them with care and safety and keeping
them in safe custody.
“V oluntary Organization” means a voluntary institution registered under V oluntary Social
Services Organization Act, No. 31 of 1980 (Registration and Supervision) and V oluntary
Social Services Organization Act, No. 08 of 1998 (Registration and Supervision) (Revised)
relevant to it.
“Orphaned” means a child or legally married parents who are dead, or of child whose
parents are not legally married and whose mother is dead.
“Deserted” means a child deserted by legally married parents or a child whose parents are
not married and deserted by his mother.
“Helpless” means a child whose father and mother is dead who is deserted by one of the
parents and the other is unable to function as parent and needs care and safety. whose
parents are receiving public assistance from the Government or from of Local Government
Interpretations

<!-- page 14 -->

14A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
Institution ; one parent of whom is permanently ill and the other has no fixed income ; one
parent of whom is in prison and other has fixed income, one of the parent of whom is
mental patient and the other has court order and having no fixed income.
Whose parents are separated by some other way and either mother of father is in custody of
the children and both parents do not have any fixed income.
“Abuse” (1) means (a) any provision made under Clause 285 (a), 288, 288(a), 308(a), 360(b),
363, 364(a) and 365(b) of the Penal Code.
(b) Any provision made under employing of children and Young Women Act.
(c) Any provision made under children and Youth Act.
(d) Any order made in connection with compulsory education under the provisions of
the Education Act.
“Abducting” means the meaning give Penal Code (Chapter 15)
“Placement” means to hand over a child, resident, in Child Development Provincial Center in
a Child Development Provincial Center, to his/her parents, or guardians, or relation, or to
absorb the child into society by some other way as appropriate to his/her well being.
“Placement Committee” means a meeting held with the participation of the Manager, Chief
Administrator parents and guardians of the children, Probation Officer in charge, Probation
Officer in charge of the Supervision of Centers and the Commissioner or an officer of his
staff authorized by him, It it is a Child Development Provincial Center meant for receiving
children, the meeting shall be held with the participation of the Matron, Provincial
Commissioner, Probation Officer, Parents and Guardians Probation Officer attached to
the center and of officer authorized by the Commissioner.
“Manager” means the owner of the Center or Controller or other person who is charge in
administration of the Child Development Center.
60. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Charter, the
Sinhala text shall prevails.
Sinhala text shall
prevails

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
FIRST SCHEDULE
Application for Registration of Child Development Center
Requesting the permission to establish a Child Development Center at ……………………………………………………District
 ……………………under the provisions of the Department of Probation and Child Care Services of ……………………Province.
I. Name of the proposed Child Development Center :-……………………………………………………………………
II. Address and Telephone Number :-………………………………………………………………………………………
III. Name of the V oluntary Organization which is expected to establish and conduct the Child Development Center
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
IV . Registration information in the Department of Social Service or in an accepted organization (Please attach a photo
copy of Registration Certificate)
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
V. Objective of the V oluntary Organization
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(Please attach a copy of the constitution)
VI. Organizational Structure
Board of Offices
Name and Address Telephone Number
Hon. President ………………………………… …………………………………
Hon Secretary ………………………………… …………………………………
Hon. Treasurer ………………………………… …………………………………
Advisor ………………………………… …………………………………
VII. Assets of the V oluntary Organization
Braches of Financial Banks Account Number Present Level of Assets
1 …………………………… …………………………… ……………………………
2 …………………………… …………………………… ……………………………
3 …………………………… …………………………… ……………………………

<!-- page 16 -->

16A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
Other Assets
(Please provide the details on vehicles, lands, buildings, business and
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
VIII. Name and the amount of funds received to the V oluntary Organization from the foreign donors
Institution Amounts of funds given annually
………………………………… …………………………………
………………………………… …………………………………
………………………………… …………………………………
IX. Who maintain the accounts of the V oluntary Organization
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
2.
I. Details of the Board of Management who wish to maintain the Child Development Center
Name and Position Age Address Telephone Number
………………………… ………………… ……………………………… …………………………
………………………… ………………… ……………………………… …………………………
………………………… ………………… ……………………………… …………………………
………………………… ………………… ……………………………… …………………………
………………………… ………………… ……………………………… …………………………
………………………… ………………… ……………………………… …………………………
II. Suitability of the Manager expected to appoint to maintain the Child Development Center.
(a) Name :-………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(b) Date of Birth :-………………………………………………………………………………………………………
(c) Educational and Professional Qualifications :-…………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………
(d) Working Experience  :-……………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
III. Who maintains the accounts of the proposed Child Development Center ?
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
3.
I. How you wish to provide the protection for the Child Development Center ?
(a) Whether it is male Child/Female child or mixed :…………………………………
(b) Age limit of children :…………………………………
(c) Expected amount of children :…………………………………
II. Amount of servants which is expected to use when maintaining the home :…………………………………
(Detalis on using them for each and every services)
Name Position Age Ed ucation/Professional Qualification Experiece
………………… ………………… ……………… …………………………………… …………………
………………… ………………… ……………… …………………………………… …………………
………………… ………………… ……………… …………………………………… …………………
………………… ………………… ……………… …………………………………… …………………
………………… ………………… ……………… …………………………………… …………………
4. It it is expected to construct/finished constructing a building for the proposed Child Development Center, indicated
whether the land used for it is owned by the organization. (It is owned by the organization please attach a certified
copy of the deed and details)
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
II. Details on the space, rooms including other halls of the proposed Child Development Center
(Attach a ground plan of the building)
Length Width
(a) Bedroom
(b) The hall suitable for educational activities
(c) The hall suitable for resting
6—PG 001627

<!-- page 18 -->

18A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
(d) Visitor meeting hall
(e) Office
(f) The room allocated for the patients
(g) The room allocated for
(h) Kitchen
(i) Resident rooms for servants
(j) Store room
(k) Bathroom
(l) Number of toilets
(m) Space for supplied
(n) Space for outdoor games
(o) Method of in-taking required water for the Child Development Center
(p) Is there main electricity
I. The details of the schools where it is expected to provide the formal education for the Child Development Centers.
Name of the School Distance to the Children's Home
II. Education facilities which is expected to provide within the Child Development Center
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
5.
I. How the health facilities are expected to be provided for the residents in the Child Development Center ? indicated
the distance to the nearest hospital
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
II. Nature of the surrounding communities and the nature of the enviornment, where the Child Development Center
is expected to start, Whether it is urban/semi-urban of rural ?
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
III. Distance to the nearest Child Development Center/whether it is male/female children's home ?
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
IV . Facilities for religious activities
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
6. Expected methodologies to re-socialization/re-habilitation of the children who enter to this Child Development
Center (After children are sent to the Child Development Center, it is not expected to keep in there for long term
and, they should be re-habilitated and handed over to their parents/guardians as soon as possible)
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
Also, I hereby certify that I shall obey the advises and provisions issued and issuing time to time by the
Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Service of ............... Province, and the Registrar of  Orphanage
Registration according to the Orders of Orphanage Act on Para 369 V olume XIV of 1980 amended manual of Sri
Lanka Statutory Enactment, Further, I certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and
correct to the best of my knowledge
…………………… …………………… ……………………
Hon. President Hon. Secretary Hon. Treasurer
Date Date Date

<!-- page 20 -->

20A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
SECOND  SCHEDULE
Registration of Voluntary Child Development Center under the Department of Probation and Child Protection Service of
1. Name of the Child Development Center ;
2. Address of the Child Development Center ;
3. New Registation Number and Date ;
4. Approved Amount of Children - Female/Male ;
5. Number and the Date of Previous Registration ;
6. Name of the V oluntary Organization which conducts the Child Development Center.
I, …………………………………………do hereby register the above Child Development Center unde a new number and a date,
invalidating its prior registration, and I certify that this Certificate of Registration is visual in accordance with all directives and
provisons made from time to time by me.
Registrar of V oluntary Child Development Center and the
Provincial Commissioner of Probation and Child Care Service.
Date :

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
THIRD  SCHEDULE
Setting up of common standards for the upliftment of the service condition of Voluntary Homes for Children
1. Standards for the space in building and surrounding
1.1 There should be at least 38 squares feet space for sleeping for each child including a mosquito net. According
to the requirement there should be an electrical bed lamp.
1.2 Instead of sleeping spaces there should be enough space in the buildings maximally suit to the number of
children to meet visitors, bath, eat, study and rest. There should be chairs and tables to use at the time of
studying, Each and every place should be well cleaned. If required germicides, should be used to clean.
1.3 The square feet amount of doors and windows for a Child Development Center should e 1/7 of the total area
of the building to enter sunlight and air.
1.4 Separate space should be there for the servants. Other than that the room of Matron/Mother/Father should
be closed to the hostel/room of children for the easiness of taking care of them in night.
1.5 The building should be kept in clean and beautiful. The surrounding of the Child Developments Center
should be maintained in a useful and attractive manner.
1.6 There should enough provisions to supply water, Also, wash basins should be fixed considering the
heights of the children to facilitate face washing for children in Child Development Center.
1.7 If water is provided by a well, that should be protected by covering from a net and a surrounding wall.
1.8 There should be bathing facilities with enough protection and security for the children and servants. Other
than that bathrooms and toilets should be there separately.
1.9 There should be a toilet fro every 08 residents and the provisions should be taken to clean the toilets and
drains frequently using germicides.
1.10 Light in the night should be provided to satisfy the requirements of the whole Child Development Center.
Light taking by using fuel lamps should only be done in a situation whether the electricity is not present and
such lamps should be in protective manner it kerosene oil some other fuel is used.
1.11 Electric wire and cables should be covered protectively
1.12 All inflammable materials should be kept and protectively stored away from the children when they cannot
access.
2. The Standards on Food and Drink
2.1 Balanced, and nutritious diet should be provided for the residents and they should be in precise quantities.
2.2. Diet notes should be prepared according to the each and every age category.
2.3 A register including the type of the food and the quantity provided daily should be maintained.
2.4 The vegetables required for 3 days and rice, coconut, sugar, wheat flour and condiments required for week
should be always stored.
2.5 An extra diet should be prepared and given for the schooling children to eat at the school. If not separately
all the students should be provided with enough amount of money to obtain an extra diet.

<!-- page 22 -->

22A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
3. The Standards on Garments for Children
3.1 Each and every child should be provided with a bed cover set, a sheet, a towel, toothbrushes, toothphaste
in enough quantities. Also each and every girl should be provided with sanitary rowels according to the
requirement.
3.2 Each and every child should be provided minimally with two set of clothes to wear at home, three school
uniforms if schooling and a dress to wear in special occasions.
3.3 Three sets of under wears should be provided minimally for every male and females child
3.4 All the sheets, towels, bed covers and the clothes of children provided for children should be cleaned using
germicides and there should be a suitable way to remove the used sanitary towels
4. Standards on Equipment
(a) Furniture
4.1 A separate cupboad should be provided for every child higher than six years to keep their clothes,
books and private equipment.
4.2 Common cupboards should be there for the children less than six years to keep the clothes and other
equipment.
4.3 Chairs and tables should be there in enough quantities for residents to use when eating and or in
reading hall. Minimally there should be one table for every 8 children and enough amount of chairs for
them.
4.4 There should be a separate cup, plate and a spoon if required for eating for every child.
4.5 Facilities should be provided to wash the plates and cups for the children by providing easy access
to that.
4.6 According to the requirement there should be separate milk bottles and teats for the infants.
(b) Kitchen
4.7 Common goods and kitchen items should be there in enough quantities for all residents and officers.
4.8 Firewood, gas and electricity can be used for kitchen activities and, there should be separate places
according to the way of using them.
(c) Education Equipment
4.9 Books and equipments ordered by the schools for the children should be provided for them.
4.10 There should be library facilities for he children to read in their leisure time.
4.11 All the provisions should be taken to provide a daily newspaper/newspaper and weekly newspaper
for children
4.12 Equipment required for entertainment should be provided for the children in enough quantities.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
D) Equipment to spend their leisure time productively according to their inherent skills
4.13 To provide aforesaid facilities following equipment should be provided
I. A radio ;
II. A colour television (24) ;
III. Musical instruments ;
IV . Block puzzles, building blocks and playing equipment for children less than 5 years ;
V. Chess Boards, Checkerboards, Carom Boards, Rubber Ball and such kind of equipment should
be provided according to the preference of the children to spend their leisure time.
(E) Sport facilities
4.14 There should be a play ground for outdoor games for the children in each Child Development Center.
4.15 If there is no owned playground for the Child Development Center, provisions should be prepared to
use a common playground or a school play ground.
4.16 Outdoor sports equipment should be taken in enough amounts for the Child Development Center.
4.17 Indoor  Sports equipment should be taken in enough amounts for the Child Development Center.
4.18 All the facilities should be provided for the children to study sports, dancing, music, including in
corporation with religious organizations and children's societies
5. Standards on the Management of the Child Development Center
A. Board of Management of Child Development Center
5.1 According to the requirement of the Management Board Meetings, Mother/Father (Matron he/she)
should be called compulsory
5.2 After appointing the Management Board, a report on that appointment should be sent to the Provincial
Commissioner with a copy to Probation Office.
5.3 Before taking a decision by the Management Board, which affect for the life of the child in relation to
the children resident in the Center, they should discuss it wit the Placement Committee/Probation
Officer in Charge of the Center/Child Right Promotion Officer or Provincial Commissioner.
5.4 The Management Board should gather at least once a month and, minimally they should gather in the
Child Development Center premises once in three months.
5.5 Suitable procedure should be prepared to send the child to its family in the school vacation and in a
special occasion of festival of the family.
5.6 At the time of a child entered to the Child Development Center, all the provisions should be taken to
keep the best relationship with the family of the child.
5.7 All the required steps should be taken to improve the services supplied to the children in the Child
Development Center, also to improve the physical, social and mental well being of the children and to
provide the protection.

<!-- page 24 -->

24A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
5.8All the provisions should be made to socialize the children without being late who exceed the age
limits.
5.9 The staff of the Child Development Center should be made aware on the procedures an the functioning
of the Center and children resident in the Center.
5.10 Necessary steps should be taken to effect payment of salary to the working staff of the Child
Development Center including the Matron (he/she) adhering to the recommendation made by the
Salaries and Wages board.
5.11 Following services should be rendered so as to bring the safety, care and the well-being of the
children resident in the Child Development Center.
I. Looking into the requirement of food and drinks of the resident children of the Child Development
Center.
II. Evolving well-organized plans for obtaining funds for the maintenance of the Center and for
management of the children and their placement.
III. Making necessary provisions to furnish reports in a regular manner that should be submitted to
the Department maintaining the Child Development Center in accordance with the instructions
and stipulations issued under circulars and revisions made thereto off and on in regard to the
running of the Child Development Center.
IV . The Manager of the Center should made arrangements to submit to the Department s Statement
of Accounts certified by a competent account prior to expending the appropriate financial and
maintenance aid provided by the Department.
5.12 The following registers shall have to be maintained in the Child Development Center.
I. Register of Admission ;
II. Register of Daily Attendance ;
III. Books of Accounts ;
IV . Log Books (for Department Officials) ;
V. Register for Visitors ;
VI. Inventory Book ;
VII. Register of Food Stuff ;
VIII. Personal Files in respect of each Child Resident in the Center ;
IX. Common File in respect of Medicine Facilities of Children ;
X. Register of Foreign Financial Aid received ;
XI. Stock Book
5.13 Every article and equipment issued by the Department shall have to be inventoried and they should
be subjected annual verification.
B. There should be a Mother/Father (Chief Matron), who has undergone a formal training on
looking after children, for every Child Development Center.
She/He should be a possesses the following qualification
I. Should have sat at least the GCE (A/L) Examination (This is not applicable to those who
are already in service)
II. Should be within the age limit of 30-60 years.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
III. Should possess good conduct and an exemplary moral character ;
IV . Should be mentally and physically healthy ;
V. Should be of pleasant disposition and a good personality with an aptitude to take care of
children ;
VI. Should not have been accused of any child abuse.
5.14 The Assistant Matrons (Male/Female) who are recruited to the working staff should have passed
GCE (O/L) Examination with a minimum of five subjects, in addition, they should have fulfilled the
other qualification mentioned under item (ii) and (vi) above.
5.15 The Chief Custodian Mother/Father (Matron/She or he) and other assistants should participate in
the Department Training Courses held off and on.
5.16 The Chief Custodian Mother/Father (Matron/she or he) should reside in the center itself
5.17 The Chief Custodian Mother/Father (Matron/she or he) as well as the other assistants should
participate in the training course held by the Department off and on, if they have not received any
training whatsoever earlier.
C. Standard of Health Service and Safety
5.18 Necessary arrangements should be made, after having discussed with a Medical Officer of the
Department of Health or with a Private Medical Officer, and make them to visit the Child Development
Center and take care of the medical requirements of the children, or to take the children to their center
for necessary treatments.
5.19 To implement immunization programs for the children resident in the Child Development Center.
5.20 A Medical Certificate should be obtained in  respect of every child who is admitted to a Child
Development Center, and he/she should be subjected to  a Medial Examination and record the result
of the examination in the child's personal file. Provisions should be made to record, the height, weight
and the distinguishing marks of the child in the personal life, as well
5.21 According to the Medical Report, the children found to be under nourished should have been sent to
the Nutrition Centers having obtained the approval of the Provincial Commissioner.
5.22 The children who do not have Certificated of Birth should be shown to the Medical Officer of the
purpose of obtaining hypothetical Birth Certificate for them.
5.23 Every child's hair should be examined, and if found infested with lice, immediate remedial action
should be taken.
5.24 If the children's hair needs cutting and cleaning, action should be taken to cut and clean their hair.
5.25 Every Child Development Center should possess a First-aid Box with should be easily accessible to
anyone of the working staff, and it should contain only the medicine recommended by a Medical
Officer.
5.26 When a resident child contracts infection or, a fatal disease the child should quarantined, and there
should be a sick room in the Center set apart for the purpose.
5.27 Whenever a child in the Center contracts an infection disease, steps should be taken to protect the
other children against the disease having taken all preventive health care measures.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
D) Standard of Education Service
5.28 Action should have been taken to send all the children over 6 years of age to a recognized school. The
children who are not in a condition to be sent to a school, provisions should be made to provide there
with their education within the premises itself by a trained teacher.
5.29 The Child Development Center should review the progress of the Child's educational activities with
the school
Arrangements should have been made to send all the children who are under the age of 6 years and
over the age of 3  years to a pre-school nearby or to conduct Pre-school classes for such children in
the Center itself.
5.30 T ime period should be set apart in the timetable of the Child Development Center, for children to play
about and do their studies daily.
5.31 Arrangement should have been made to provide the children with some sort of V ocational Training.
5.32 Arrangement should have been made to provide some sort of V ocational Training, specially for
children over fourteen, who are unable to reap the best harvest from their school education, and for
those who are eager or really skilled in this field.
Steps should be taken to send the children to Child Development Center which three are Special
V ocational Training Center started with the help of the Government, after having obtained the
Commissioner's instructions. Or else the children should be provided with the opportunity to follow
the V ocational Training Courses conducted by the Government.
(E) Special Services relating to the Growth of Children.
5.33 The records should be up-dated at least once in a month in the subject files maintained in respect each
child.
5.34 The following details should be recorded the subject file of each child
I. The Child's Birth Certificate of his Hypothetical Birth Certificate ;
II. Medical Reports/Immunization Dates/Special Medical Treatment ;
III. School Certificate ;
IV . Notes of Samurdhi benefits received ;
V. Height, Weight and Growth of the child ;
VI. Notes of Physical/Mental and Spiritual Observations and Progress of the child ;
VII. V isits by Parents or Guardians.
VIII. Notes of action taken on the conduct of the child after having discussed it with the Probation
Officer ;
IX. Notes of special decisions of the Placement Committee.
6. Placement
6.1 The following actions shall be taken for placement of children
I. Whenever there are parents and guardians or parents or guardians can be traced every child should
be handed over to them
II. To detain the child with same suitable person when the parents or guardian are unable to take care of
the child although he has parents or guardians.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
III. To take action to hand over the suitable children who are rendered orphaned, or deserted for legal
adoption with  the proper consent of the parents and guardians.
IV . To take action to hand over the suitable children to foster parents so as to bring about short-term or
long-term welfare, or to make provisions to identify foster parents and facilitate them to visit the child
at the Child Development Center.
V. To choose foster parents for the children who would provide assistance in such a way to bring about
the welfare of the child.
VI. Finding employment or providing necessary facilities for securing employment
VII. Providing some sort of V ocational Training that would make it easy for finding employment.
VIII. Providing financial assistance and guidance for children who are willing to engage in self-employment
activities.
IX. Give the children in marriage in fit and proper way
X. To take other alternative course of action as appropriate.
6.2. Placement Committee
A Placement Committee comprising following persons shall have to summon a meeting and reach a decision
in order to obtain the approval of the Provincial Commissioner with the instruction of the relevant Probation
Officer before transferring children housed in a Child Development Center, with or without the approval of
the Department of the Probation and Child Care Uva, to another Center or removing them from the Child
Development Center, or extending the validity of their resident period.
I. The Commissioner of Local Government/Probation Officer in Charge of the Center.
II. A Representative of the V oluntary Organization ;
III. Mother/Father in Charge of the Center ;
IV . A Representative of Board of Management ;
V. Parent Guardian/Representative.
6.3 No outside should be allowed to participate at he Placement Meeting.
6.4 The Placement Committee should decide three months in advance to transfer a child to another Child
Development Center, or to remove a child from the Child Development Center, or to hand over a child to
parents/guardians or to extend the validity of the resident period.
6.5 The Placement Committee mentioned above should meet at least once in three month.
7. General Matters
7.1 A suitable environment and a methodology should be created in every Child Development Center enabling
the children to engage in their religious activities.
7.2 Mother/Father custodian or the Manager should not act against a child's religious convictions.
7.3 After having discussed with the Probation Officer in Charge of Supervision, during every school vacation,
necessary facilities should be provided to a child, if there is no special hindrance, to visit his/her home or a
house of a relation, in such situation no child should be detained in the Child Development Center.
7.4 If resident children show desire to join Boys Scout Groups or Sports Teams, action should be taken to get
them enrolled to such groups or teams.
7.5 Arrangement should be made to tkane the resident children on educational tours, picnics and pilgrimage
once in two or three months.

<!-- page 28 -->

28A IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
7.6 Work programs should be evolved and implemented to improve the relationship between the children and
their parents/guardians.
7.7 Letters written by the children or letters received by them or telephone calls taken, or diaries maintained by
them should not be supervised by the working staff or by anyone else unless there is very special reason for
it.  If such a supervision is done, a note should be made in the subject file an the action taken thereto should
be approved and justified by at least two members of the staff and a note should be made in the file to that
effect.
7.8 Members of the Advisory Committee appointed by he respective Minister of  Child Development from time
to time should be allowed to inspect the activities of the Child Development Center as and when necessary.
7.9 All monies and articles received by the Child Development Center from locals and foreign should be
properly accounted for in the Accounts Books and Stock Books.
7.10 On all transactions expected to be done with the foreign institution by the Child Development Center the
approval of the Provincial Commissioner should be obtained through the Probation Officer in Charge of
Supervision, while reporting about the current relationship, the Child Development Center has with such
institutions.
7.11 Arrangements should be made to group resident children into different houses (such as Manel House,
Tissa House) taking into consideration their age limits.
7.12 According to the instruction of the Probation Officer in Charge of Supervision the steps taken in regard to
the children who are beyond control should be noted in writing and filed of record.
7.13 The following actions must not be taken against children who go out of control
I. Corporal punishment ;
II. Punishment that could bring about mental agony.
8. Child Participation
8.1 A course of action should have been evolved to inform the Probation Officer the Board of Control and
Mother/Father of the House, whenever the children are faced with a problem.
8.2 Provisions should have been made to take action to consider the children's opinion in regard to welfare
matters directly affecting their day today life, and take action in accordance with their views
9. Marketing Arrangement for Child's Future Well-being
9.1 A written plan (work plan) should be evolved to socialized the child and reckon his/her growth within 30
days after his/her admission to the Child Development Center.
9.2 The above plan should includes the following matters.
I. Probe into the child's history and identify his needs ;
II. Objectives expected to realize in respect of the child ;
III. Course of action that should be adopted to achieve such objectives ;
IV . Education plan relating to the child ;
V. Action regarding relationship to be built up with the parents or guardians, improving them and
maintaining them.;

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'09
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.05.2013
VI. Any special services that ought to be rendered to the child.
VII. W ork program evolved to socialize the child as mentioned below :
Place where the child should reside ;
Who provide safety to the child
Avoiding of child's re-admission to the Child Development Center
How the child is going to be maintained.
9.3 The understanding people should be made to take part in making the plan in connection the child.
I. Parents or guardians' of the child ;
II. The Child ;
III. Matron (he/she) of the Child Development Center ;
IV . Probation Officer in Charge of Supervision.
9.4 The plan evolved in correction with the child should be received within an appropriate and made necessary
revisions thereto.
9.5 Steps should be necessarily taken to send the child back to his/her family, or guardian relation before the
expiry of the period of time (maximum three years) for which period child has been admitted to the Center.
05 - 623
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA