

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1698$20 - 2011 ud¾;= 24 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2011'03'24
No. 1698/20  - THURSDAY ,  MARCH 24,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A
EASTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Pre-School Education’s Statute No. 01 of 2010 of Eastern  Province
Provincial Council
I do hereby append below to the notice of all.
The above statute passed on 04.05.2010 by the Eastern Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
which was sanctioned by H. E. Governor of the Eastern Province on 09.02.2010.
SIV ANESATHURAI CHANDRAKANTHAN,
Chief Minister and the Minister of Finance and Planning,
Local Government, Rehabilitation, Resettelment, Rural Development,
Manpower, Law and Order, Regional Administration, Tourism and Environment,
Eastern Province.
Chief Minister’s Secretariat,
Eastern Province,
Inner Harbour Road,
Trincomalee,
23rd March, 2011.
PROVINCIAL     COUNCIL    OF    EASTERN     PROVINCE
STATUTE     OF     PRE-SCHOOL     EDUCATION
No. 1 of 2010, Eastern Province
(Approved by the Provincial Governor on 04.05.2010)
This is an enactment, as per the powers vested to the Provincial Councils through the 13th Amendment to the Constitution of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to establish a Bureau of Education for monitoring, administering and guidance
PG 001229

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
2A
purposes of Pre-schools already established and functioning and of pre-school to be established newly within the limits of
Eastern Province ; and for the registration of Pre-schools and teachers ; establishing of a Provincial Pre-school Education
Advisory Board and forming a policy planning committee to prepare Pre-school Education Policy and to make and coordinate
related activities.
01. This Statute may be cited as Bureau of Pre-School Education of Eastern  Province Act,  No.01 of
2010 and shall come into operation on such  a date as the Governor may appoint and approve.
P
ART I
OBJECTIVES
02. (1) (A) As per the provisions of this enactment following shall be the objectives.
(i)  Establishing Provincial Bureau of Pre-School Education,
(ii) Establishing  Provincial Pre-School Education Advisory Committee,
(iii)  Establishing  a committee to prepare objectives for pre-school  education,
(iv) Registration of pre-schools functioning in the Province, supervising,   consolidating
and directing them.
02. (1) (B) Following shall be the objectives of the pre-schools registered under the  provisions of
this enactment:
(i)  Child growth and related guidance,
(ii)  Providing suitable atmosphere and secured environment to obtain sensual
experiences,
(iii) Providing moral behaviours through their daily activities,
(iv) Training them for habits such as friendly talks, kindness and communication
(v) Guiding to healthful habits and creating suitable school environment
(vi) Creating suitable environment to develop moral behaviours,
(vii) Providing opportunity for physical and health developments
(viii) Identifying  child’s personal talent and developing it for intelligent creations providing
suitable environment,
(ix) Training them to love the environment and rejoice with satisfaction; and leading to
understand the importance and protection of the environment
(x)  Training to develop physical and mental power to face the challenges
(xi) Creating a better environment to learn to co-operate with the society,
(xii) Allowing the children to spend their childhood joyfully and happily,
(xiii) Laying firm foundation for future education the children,  national and inter-racial
harmony,
(xiv) Developing friendly feelings among with ICT and English.
PART II
ADMINISTRA TION  AND MONITORING
03. (1) A Bureau of Pre-School Education of Eastern Province (hereinafter called Bureau) should be established.
03. (2) The Bureau named in sub section (1) shall be an incorporated body with right of succession
and possessed with a general emblem and shall be able to sue and liable to sued,
Short Title and
Date of Coming
into force
Objectives
Objectives of the
Registered Pre-
Schools
Establishing
Pre-school
Education Bureau

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
04. (1) Administration, management and control of this Bureau shall, as mentioned hereafter,  be
vested to a Board of Management.
(2) Board of Management of the Bureau (hereafter called as Board) shall consists the following:
(2) (A) Representative of the Provincial Director of Education of Eastern Province,
(B) Representative of the Commissioner of Local Government , Eastern Province,
(C) Representative of the Treasury, Eastern Province, and
(D) Other four members appointed by the Minister according to sub sections (3) and (4).
(3) (A) Using his discretionary power, the Minister  could remove any of the four members appointed
under sub section (2)(d),
(B) Any member appointed under sub section(2)(d) can  resign from the membership of the
Board tendering his resignation letter to the Minister, any time,
(C) The term of office of a member appointed under sub section (2)(d) shall be three years
unless he is removed, resigned or deceased,
(D) Vacancy under sub section (2)(d) shall be filled by the Minister with the a person whose
term of office shall be the remaining period of that person who created the vacancy,
(4) (A) The Minister shall appoint one of the members appointed  under sub section (2)(d) as the
Chairman of the Board and he (the chairman) shall be the Competent Authority for Pre-
School Education,
(4) (B) Whereas the Competent Authority is unable to perform his duty due to ill health or on
leave abroad, the Minister shall appoint one of the members appointed under sub section
(2)(d) performing Chairman who shall also be Competent Authority,
(5) Quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be four.
(6) The Board shall regulate the procedure for its meetings and handling matters with suitable
rules and regulations.
(7) Any activity of its procedure shall not be invalid due to a vacancy among the members or
a defect on the appointment of a member.
(8) Payment of salary such as decided by the Board of Management shall be payable to the
members appointed under section 4 sub section (2)(d) from the fund of the Bureau.
05. On the name of the Bureau, the Board should have following  powers:
(A) To purchase or possess or manage moveable or immovable property,
(B) To sell or mortgage or exchange or transfer other ways the movable or immovable property
owned by the Bureau,
(C) To take such actions and to do activities necessary to effectuate  the provisions of this
statute.
06. The Board should operate an account on behalf of the Bureau of Pre-School Education of
Eastern Province in one of state or quasi state Banks and all grants or donations or whatever
funds received from any organization aimed at the development of child education should
be credited against such account.
Management of
the Bureau
Powers of the
Bureau
Bank Account of
the Bureau

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
4A
07. Duty of the Board is utilizing the fund as advised by the Minister for the objectives the
Bureau.
08. The Board shall have authority as per the order of the Minister for the following:
(A) To appoint necessary cadre of administration and management to handle affairs of the
Bureau,
(B) To decide on payment of salary for the cadre,
(C) To make this payment and other such expenses occurred to run the Bureau from the
revenue of the Bureau,
09. (1) The Board shall make arrangements to  maintain accounts of revenue, expenditure, assets
and liabilities and other such transactions of the Bureau,
(2) The Accounts of the Board should be audited according to the article 154 of the constitution
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
10. The Minister should place the Report of the Auditor General before the  Provincial Council.
11. The Board shall make necessary regulations in order to prevent any commission or omission
that could directly affect or about to affect the functions such as performing, implementing
and fulfilling of duties and powers of the Board.
12. All members of the officers and employees (cadre) of the Bureau should deemed  to be
public servants as according to the provisions of Criminal Procedure Code and Bribery
Commission Act.
P
ART III
ESTABLISHING OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE
13. (1) Advisory Committee of the Pre-School Education of Eastern province(hereinafter called
Advisory Committee) should established by the Minister.
(2) It shall consist of 11 members; of them 6 shall be ex-officio members and 5 shall be nominated
members.
(3) (A) The following six shall be ex-officio members as per their post:
(i) The Secretary of the Ministry who shall be responsible for Pre-Schools in the Province,
(ii) The Provincial Director of Education, eastern Province,
(iii) The Provincial Director Sports, Eastern Province,
(iv) The Provincial Director of Health, Eastern  Province,
(v) The  Commissioner of Child Care and Probation, Eastern province, and
(vi) The Commissioner of Local Government, Eastern Province.
Purposes to use
the Fund of the
Bureau
Cadre of the
Bureau
Audits and
Accounts
Placing Report
of Auditor
General before
Provincial
Council
Power of the
Board to make
regulation
According to Cr.
P. C. & Bribery
Act, Cadre of the
Bureau consid-
ered public
servants
Establishing
Adv. Com.
Ex-officio
members

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
(3) (B) Following five members shall be appointed by the Minister:
(i) 3 members at one for each District from the volunteer organizations engaged in child
care and pre-school educational development,
(ii) An expert on Pre-School Education and Child’s activities, and
(iii) A pediatrician or psychologist.
14. (1) The Chairman of the Advisory Committee shall be the Secretary of the Ministry which is
responsible for Pre-School Education. The Secretary shall be the Commissioner of Local
Government.
(2) Quorum for the Advisory Committee Meeting shall be 5.
(3) Term of the post of nominated member shall be three years unless he is deceased or
resigned from his post or expelled,
(4) Whereas a nominated member is absent for three consecutive meetings which are
acceptable as Advisory Committee Meetings without prior information, he shall be deemed
as vacated his post on his own,
(5) The Minister remove any member nominated to the Advisory Committee from his post at
any time,
(6) A nominated member shall resign himself from the Advisory Committee on his own with
written notification to the Minister,
(7) The Minister shall fill the vacancy occurred due to the death, resignation or removal of a
member or some other reasons as per section 4.(3)(b) by appointing a suitable one.
The new member shall hold office only for the remaining period of his predecessor.
(8) To every member appointed under section 13.(3)(b),such payment decided by the Minister
accordance with the Board be paid from the fund the Bureau.
(9) Unless this statute provides  otherwise , the Advisory Committee shall prepare a code of
procedure for its activities and meetings.
(10) The Advisory Committee should meet at least once a quarter.
15. Any one,
(A) Whereas he is not citizen of Sri Lanka or loses his citizenship ; or
(B) Whereas he is proclaimed to be unsound or insolvent by prevailing  laws of Sri Lanka ; or
(C) Whereas found guilty by a Court of Law in Sri Lanka or any other country ; or
(D) Whereas his finance or other connections that could influence to affect his performance of
duties as a members of the Advisory committee ; or
(E) Whereas found guilty related to any provision of this statute,
(F) He shall not be eligible to be appointed as a member of the Advisory Committee.
Chairman,
Secretary &
Activities of
Advisory
Committee
Code of Meeting
Procedure
Nominate
Members

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
6A
16. Any vacancy in the Advisory Committee or defect on appointing a member, shall not be
able to cancel any decision or activities of Advisory Committee.
17. The Advisory Committee shall bound to fulfill the following activities:
(A) Preparing projects for the implementation of changes, amendments  or new  inductions
into the policy related to Pre-School Education and submitting them to the attention of the
Minister,
(B) Selecting activities related to pre-schools to be and preparing programmes providing
counseling , reviewing and supervising,
(C) Evaluating activities related to Pre-schools of Education with the Province, deciding syllabus
on subjects of Pre-schools, reviewing, changing or making policies upon them,
(D) Preparing suitable education programmes for children of special education and undertaking
decisions for the development of their knowledge and skills,
(E) Deciding actions against Pre-schools that violate the provisions of this statute,
(F) Looking into appeals on registration of Pre-schools and submitting recommendations to
the Minister,
(G) Regarding implementation of this Statute, providing necessary advice to respective officers,
(H) Deciding on preparing teachers guides as per needs time to time,
(I) Making projects to regulate and uplift matters related to children’s physical and mental
nutrition, time to time,
(J) Deciding on allocation of resource in Pre-schools,
(K) Deciding on proposals submitted by the Minister on any matter.
18. Syllabus to the Pre-schools should be prepared by the Advisory Committee and that
syllabus should be the syllabus in all pre-schools from the date of approval by the Minister.
P
ART IV
RESEARCH  ON   PRE-SCHOOLS
19. (A) Within three months from the date of operation of the statute, an evaluation should take
place regarding Pre-schools in the Eastern Province and on the findings of evaluation a
report should be prepared. In that report the followings should be included:
(i) List of Pre-schools functioning on provincial level at present,
(ii) Student population of each school,
(iii) Administrative structure of each school,
(iv) Number of teachers in each school,
(v) Cadre for each school,
(vi) Supervision and other manage system of each school,
(vii) Infra-structure facilities of each school,
Pre-school
syllabus.
Research on Pre-
schools.
Duties and
responsibilities
of advisory
committee.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
(viii) Situation and environment of each school,
(ix) Resource of income of fund for activities of each school,
(x) Percentage of children obtaining pre-school education out of total children
population in the region ;
(B) To prepare such document, the Bureau should have such data and information collected
from Local Government bodies, institutions, and persons as inputs ;
(C) Providing such data and information to the Competent Authority accordingly shall be an
obligation of Local Government bodies, institutions and individuals.
P
ART  V
PRE-SCHOOL   EDUCA TION   POLICY   OF   EASTERN   PROVINCE
20. (1) Within six months from the date of operation of this statute, a Policy for the  Pre-Schools of
Eastern Province (hereinafter called ‘Policy’) should be prepared.
(2) The Minister shall form a committee comprising three persons to prepare the Policy. Two
experts in child education and another suitable person to the subject shall be the members
of this committee. From the date of submission of the Policy Plan to the Minister, the
committee ceased to be.
(3) The Policy Planning committee with six months from the date of its formation, should
submit the Minister, the Pre-School Education Policy Plan containing the following:
(A) Challenges and shortcomings the Pre-schools of Eastern Province facing to hold up and
easily activate the norms of pre-school education,
(B) Barriers and difficulties the children of all areas in the province facing to obtain pre-school
education,
(C) Proposals to remove or reduce defects and conflicts found in the pre-schools functioning
at provincial level,
(D) Proposals related to maximum use of infrastructure  facilities and resources already available
and adhering generosity in the procedure of resource distributing already in operation,
(E) Building up of the available teacher resources with performance and creativity power and
vesting additional resources,
(F) Proposals to identify and co-ordinate related parties to achieve the objects of the statute.
(4) The Minister shall produce the said Plan submitted to him to the Advisory Committee and
obtain its opinions and recommendations.
(5) The Minister shall call for the proposals and recommendations of the Advisory Committee
to the Policy Plan as per needs and then produce it before the Board of Ministers.
(6) The said Policy Plan on decision of the Board of Ministers should be proclaimed as the Pre-
School Education Policy of Eastern Province, by the Minister.
Provincial Pre-
school Education
Policy Plan and
Forming
Committee.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
8A
PART VI
REGISTRA TION   OF   PRE-SCHOOLS
21. No any Pre-school shall function or established unless registered at the Bureau after the
date of operation of the statute.
22. Before the completion of 3 months from the Gazette notification of this statute, each and
every pre-school functioning within the Province should, through its owner or administrator
should apply to the Competent Authority for registration in the Form shown in the 1st
Schedule of this statute.
23. Whereas requested by  anyone who failed to make such application within 3 months from
the Gazette Notification of this statute, the Competent Authority, considering the  lapse of
time shall accept  applications with additional charges described in the 2nd Schedule.
24. Any owner or administrator after such date of implementation of this statute should register
any pre-school applying to the Competent Authority as per the application form shown in
the 3rd Schedule.
25. With application for registration every applicant should pay such a registration fee decided
by the Board time to time.
26. (1) Whereas the Competent Authority found that any owner or administrator commences or
runs one or  more pre-schools against the provisions of this statute or regulations or
orders made under this statute, and whereas the owner or administrator fails to correct the
wrong within 14 days from the date of issue his written order to the owner or administrator
regarding this wrong or refuse the order, the owner or administrator shall deem to be
committed a crime under this statute.
(2) An  owner or administrator of any Pre-school should pay a fine not less than Rs.500 for a
month from such a date he found guilty under sub section(1) above to the Bureau.
27. (1) Whereas a Pre-school applied to be registered according to the provisions of the statute at
this Bureau on any such date the statute came into operation, the Competent Authority
shall reject the application for registration stating the reasons  if the application is not
complied with the provisions of the statute.
(2) Reasons for rejection of each and every application should be forwarded to the applicant
by the Competent Authority within one month from the date of application.
(3) If any owner or administrator was not satisfied on the rejection order under sub section  (2)
above, he shall appeal to the Minister stating reasons for his unsatisfaction within 14 days
from the date of receipt of the Rejection Order.
(4) On receipt of the appeal, with no delay the Minister should submit Advisory Committee
and on findings and recommendations of the Advisory Committee, decide on the appeal
and inform the appellant.
(5) Minister’s decision on the appeal will be final.
28. (1) The Competent Authority shall maintain a ledger of information of register of the Pre-
schools functioning at the time of implementation of this statute; of the Pre-schools
No unregistered
Pre-schools
function.
Registration of
Pre-school.
Late fee for
unregistered Pre-
schools.
Registration of
new Pre-schools.
Registration fee.
Violation of
Statute.
Appeal to
Minister.
Rejection of
registration.
Ledger of
Registration of
Pre-schools.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
registered as per the provisions after the implementation date of the statute and of the Pre-
schools newly started and registered after the said date of implementation of the statute.
(2) All Pre-schools of the Province should be registered at the Bureau; The registration number
and certificate should be issued by the Competent Authority.
(3) For the requirement of the statute , such certificate shall deem to be legally valid.
PART  VII
QUALIFICATIONS OF PRE-SCHOOL  TEACHERS  AND  TRAININGS
29. (1) Teachers of the Pre-schools that are operating on the date of implementation of the statute
must possess following as least qualification:
A pass in six subjects including Tamil/Sinhala language and Mathematics at the General
Certificate of Education(Ordinary Level) Examination held by the Department of
Examinations; and possesses a training certificate less than 3 months on Pre-school
Education conducted by any institution acceptable by the Advisory Committee.
(2) Teachers of the Pre-schools opened after the date of implementation of the statute should
have C passes in five subjects including Tamil/Sinhala language and Mathematics at the
General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination held by the Department of
Education and passed General Certificate of Education(Advanced Level) Examination  and
should have obtained a certificate not less than a Diploma Grade of Pre-school Trained
Teachers from a recognized educational institution.
30. Whereas teachers of any Pre-schools functioning when this statute come into force were
not qualified as per provisions of section 29(1), should obtain necessary qualifications
within one year from the date of implementation of this statute.
31. Whereas teachers who failed to obtain basic qualifications provided in section 29(1) within
the prescribed time limit given in section 30, the Competent Authority shall have authority
to order to remove them from the post pre-school teachers.
32. (1) All the teachers in the Eastern Province should register themselves at the Bureau
functioning, by making applications in the specimen form appears  in the 4th Schedule of
this statute within 6 months from the date of implementation of this statute.
(2) The Competent Authority should register the successful applicants who applied under
subsection (1) of the statute and satisfied the provisions of the statute in the Ledger being
maintained  for this purpose and issue them with a registration number.
33. The Chairman should prepare a training programme related to additional educational
knowledge and skills necessary  to the managerial  administrators and  teachers of Pre-
schools and a training syllabus annually, before the 3rd quarter of the preceding year and
submit them to the Advisory Committee for approval.
34. Participating the training programmes conducted with guidance of the Competent Authority
and approval of Advisory Committee,  is mandatory to every administrator and teachers  of
Pre-schools. Taking disciplinary action against administrators and teachers who do not
Disciplinary
action.
Training of
Admn. and
Teachers.
Registration of
Pre-school
teachers.
Power to remove
unqualified.
Unqualified to be
qualified.
Ed.
Qualifications of
Pre-school
Teachers.
Registration of
Pre-schools and
certificates.

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
10A
participate training programmes contenting such requirements necessary to administrators
and teachers,  is shall be the duty of the Competent Authority.
35. The Competent should, based on the recommendations of Advisory Committee,  prepare
and conduct a formal programme in order to instruct and awaken  the parents of Pre-school
children.
PART  VIII
GENERAL   PROVISIONS
36. (1) Minister shall be able to make Gazette orders on rules and regulations on such functions
required by the provisions of the statute.
(2) All orders , rules and regulations made by the Minister shall be in force from such a date it
Gazetted or such a date prescribed for operation.
However, such orders, rules and regulations should be submitted to the Provincial Council
for approval within 3 months from their Gazette notification. Whereas  the Provincial
Council is suspended or dissolved at that time, they should be submitted at the first
meeting of the Provincial Council  following suspension or dissolution. Whereas the
Provincial Council refused to approve such orders, rules and regulations, they  should
deem to be invalidated in such a manner  that causes no any harm to what have had done
under the above said orders, rules and regulations before the date of refusal of approval.
36. (3) Gazette notification should be made to the effect on such a date any of the rules, regulations
or order deemed invalidated.
37. The Bureau shall be able to obtain special services of any person or persons in order to
carry out the function, prohibited by the statute and shall be able to make payments for
that service.
38. Whereas any order, advice, or guidance issued to the Competent Authority by the Minister
or Advisory Committee as per provisions of this statute, he shall be obliged to act
accordingly and whereas any report or document is required by the Minister or Advisory
Committee, the Competent Authority is bound to provide them.
P
ART  IX
OFFENCES  AND  PUNISHMENTS
39. Violation of any or many provisions of the statute or rules or orders made under same or
failure to accept duties or responsibilities entrusted by the statute or making interruption
to anyone authorized by this statute to prevent performing his duties, shall be a punishable
offence under this statute.
40. Whereas anyone committing such offence, found guilty at the summary trial in a Magistrate
Court before a Magistrate, he shall be liable to be fined a sum of Sri Lankan Rupees 1,000
or sent to imprisonment not more than 6 months or both.
41. Whereas any inconsistence found between Tamil and Sinhala versions of this statute,
Tamil version will be accepted.
42. Unless otherwise provided, in this statute,
Employing for
special services.
Competent
Authority
accepting orders
of Minister and
Adv. Comm.
Offences and
punishments.
Acceptance of
Tamil versions
Construing
Parent’s
awakens.
Gazetting rules,
regulations and
etc.
Operation of
rules, regulations
and etc.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
“Minister” refers the Minister responsible for education of Eastern Province,
“Board of Ministers”  refers Board of Ministers, Eastern Province,
“Competent Authority” refer the Office nominated under section 4 of the statute,
“Administrators” refers those who run or manage the Pre-schools,
“Pre-School” refers the Educational Institution functioning  within the Province with
objective of providing infant education and special infant education,
“Infantry” is the period of age from 3 to 5 of both male and female children,
“Province” refers  the Eastern Province comprising Batticaloa, Ampara and Trincomalee
Districts,
“Provincial Council” refers the Provincial Council of Eastern Province established as per
Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
“Provincial Commissioner of Local Government” refers the head of the Department of
Local Government established for Eastern Province,
“Special Children” refers physically and mentally defected children,
“Special  Education” refer learning-teaching activities related to special children,
“Bureau” refers the Bureau of Pre-School Education of Eastern Province to be established
under this statute.
As per Section 22.
First Schedule.
BUREAU  OF   PRE-SCHOOL   EDUCATION
For Office Use.
1. Application No:
2. Received Date :
3. Received Officer’s Signature:
4. Registration Fee Paid:
5. Receiving Receipt No:
6. Registration Accepted/Not Accepted:
7. Reason for Non Acceptance, briefly:
8. If Accepted, Registration No:
APPLICATION   FOR   REGISTRATION   OF   FUNCTIONING   PRE-SCHOOLS
1. Name and Address of Place where the Pre-school is situated:
2. Name and Number of Grama Sevaka Officer’s Division:
3. Divisional Secretariat Division:
4. District:
5. Name of Local Government Division :
6. Division of Zonal Education Office:
7. Date of Commencement:
8. Name of the Pre-School:
9. Medium of Instruction of Pre-School:
10. Details of Current Syllabus of the Pre-School(attach copy)
11.  Pre-School’s, (a) Owner’s Name: (b) Administrator’s Name/Administrators’ Names:
12. If this Pre-school already registered in any establishment?  If so, details:
13. Name of the establishment which/ or the person/persons who pioneered the establishment of the Pre-school:
14. Details of person or establishment funding the Pre-school:
15. Details of  the landlord/building owner of Pre-school:
16. Detail of rooms and hall of the Pre-school building  and its extension of area: (attach plan)
17. By whom the building/land is maintained? , give details:

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
12A
18. No. on roll of students registered at present: Male :……….    Female:……………..
19. Particulars of Teachers:
Name of Teacher : ……….Address:……….    Sex: ……….Educational Qualifications……….
20. Full details of Pre-school administration/management:……….
21. Details Infra-structure facilities of Pre-school:
(i) Drinking water,
(ii) Electricity,
(iii) Latrines,
(iv) Ground/country yard,
(v) Others.
22. Details of learning-teaching equipments available at the Pre-school/to be received by the Pre-school
                I hereby certify  that the foregoing details are true and correct.
………………………… Applicant’s Signature :…………………………
 Date. Name :…………………………
Designation/Qualification.
As per Section 23.
Second Schedule:
Late Fee
(1) Rs.500/- per month for first three months,
(2) Rs.1000/- per month for five months, following the first three months  of late period,
(3) Whereas the late period exceeds the first three months and includes following late period, late fee will be an added
amount of above (1) and (2)
As per Section 24.
Third Schedule:
For pre-schools established following the date of implementation of this statute.
BUREAU   OF   PRE-SCHOOL   EDUCATION
For Office Use.
1. Application No:
2. Received Date :
3. Received Officer’s Signature:
4. Registration Fee Paid:
5. Receiving Receipt No:
6. Registration Accepted/Not Accepted:
7. Reason for Non Acceptance, briefly:
8. If Accepted, Registration No:
APPLICATION   FOR   REGISTRATION   OF   FUNCTIONING   PRE-SCHOOLS
1. Name and Address of Place where the Pre-school proposed to be established:
2. Name and Number of Grama Sevaka Officer’s Division:
3. Divisional Secretariat Division:
4. District:
5. Name of Local Government Division :
6. Division of Zonal Education Office:

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
7. Proposed Name of the Pre-School:
8. Medium/media of Instruction of Pre-School:
9.  Pre-School,
(a) Owner’s Name:
(b) Administrator’s Name/Administrators’ Names:
10. Proposed name of the establishment which/ or the person/persons who pioneered the establishment of the
Pre-school:
11. Details of person or establishment proposed to fund the Pre-school:
12. Whereas already constructed building, detail of proposed Pre-school ,
(i) Details of land lord/building owner
(ii) Details rooms and hall (attach plan),
13. Whereas proposed to build newly,
(i) Details of land lord,
(ii) Details of the person/persons who fund the construction,
(iii) Details of maintenance of the building to be constructed,
14. Proposed number of students to be registered :  Male ;……….    Female :……………..
15. Particulars of Teachers proposed : Name of Teacher : ……….Address:……….    Sex: ……….Educational
Qualifications……….
16. Details – by whom the proposed pre-school to be administrated/managed;
17. Details Infra-structure facilities to be provided to proposed Pre-school:
(vi) Drinking water
(vii) Electricity,
(viii) Latrines
(ix) Ground/country yard,
(x) Others.
18. Details of learning-teaching equipments available at the Pre-school/to be received by the Pre-school
I hereby certify that the foregoing details are true and correct.
Applicant’s Signature : ……….
Date: ……….  Name : ……….
Designation/Qualification : ……….
As per Section 32.
Fourth Schedule
APPLICATION   FOR   THE   REGISTRATION   OF   PRE-SCHOOL   TEACHERS
1. Name of Teacher: (with initials)
2. Names denoted by initials:
3. Number of National Identity Card:
4. Address:
5. Name & Number  of Grama Sevaka Division where the address situated:
6. Married/unmarried:
7. Sex: Male/Female :
8. Date of Birth:
9. Age on Date of Application: .years:……………….months :………………..days :………….
10. Nationality:
11. Religion:
12. Name and address of pre-school where the applicant engaged in teaching activities:
13. It situated,
(i) Grama Sevaka Officer  Division;……………………………………….., No:……………………….
(ii) Divisional Secretariat Division:
(iii) District:
(iv) Name Local Government Body:
14. Name of the owner/administrator of Pre-school:
15. Medium of Instruction:

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'24
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.03.2011
14A
16. Whereas any teachers accompanying you in service, there particulars:
Name:                                                 Address:
17. Date of your joined the said school:
18. Particulars of Pre-school teacher service:
Serial No:                   Name of  School:                      Address:                          From:     To:
19. Total years of service on the date of application:
20. Details of Educational Qualifications:
21. Details of Professional Qualifications:
22. Details participated, certificated training courses, workshops and seminars etc.:
Training: Subject Matter: Duration: By Whom:
Workshop
Seminar
23. Details of your salary and allowances on the date of application:
24. Resource of your salary payment:
I hereby declare and affirm that the foregoing details given by me are, to best of my  knowledge, correct, neat and true.
…………………
Signature of Applicant.
Date :…………………
I certify that the above details given by the teacher, named Mr/Mrs/ Miss…………………… …………………… are correct as
per  our documents, leaves and files available at our school .
Date:……………………… ……………………………………………
Signature of Owner/Administrating Officer.
Name
Designation/Qualification………………
04-283
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.