

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1597
1597
wxl 1"670 - 2010 iema;eïn¾ ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'09'03
No. 1,670 – FRIDAY , SEPTEMBER 03, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1600
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 1602
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 09th September, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th
August, 2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-II(A) and III of the Gazette No. 1,669 of 27.08.2010 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1598
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1599
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) S tandard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1600
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 4th October, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
18th August, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Kandy Y atinuwara Post of Registrar of Marriage (Kandyan/General) of District Secretary/ Addi. Registrar
Yatinuwara Division and Births & Deaths of General District Secretariat Kandy.
Yatinuwara Gangapalatha Division of Kandy District
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of Marriage (Kandyan/General) of District Secretary/ Addi. Registrar
Udunuwara/Yatinuwara Division and Births & General District Secretariat
Deaths of Kandupalatha Division of Kandy District Kandy.
09-104
REGISTRAR  GENERAL'S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Births and Deaths
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of  Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1601
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should not be less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06. Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 4th October, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General's Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
17th August, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post for which Address to which
Secretary's Division Applications are called applications should be sent
Kalutara Kalutara Post of Medical Registrar District Secretary/
Births, Deaths of Kalutara Addi. Registrar General
Town Division District Secretariat Kalutara.
09-105
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1602
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 04th October, 2010 .
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla,
16th August, 2010.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariy's Division and Post for which Address to which
Division applications were called applications should be sent
Colombo Ratmalana Post of Registrar of Marriage (General) District Secretary/Additional
of Ratmalana West (Karagampitiya) Registrar General, District Secretariat
Division Colombo 12
Colombo Thimbirigasyaya Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in Wellawatte Division Registrar General, District Secretariat
Colombo 12
Colombo Colombo Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in Kotahena Division Registrar General, District Secretariat
Colombo 12
09–96
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
FIRST  EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR
OFFICERS IN CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA
EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2010
IT is hereby notified that the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in Class III in the Sri Lanka Educational Administrative
Service will be held in 2010 December in Colombo.
02. The syllabus and other provisions relating to this Examination
have been published in the Gazette Extraordinary  of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,225/32
dated 01.03.2002. The syllabus and other provisions are indicated
below for convenience.
Examination Procedure :
(a) The First Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the
following subjects :–
Subject Number 01 General Administration –
Constitution of Sri Lanka,
Provisions of the Establishments
Code and other Regulations of
the Government
Subject Number 02 Finance
Subject Number 03 Education, Educational Law,
Administration and Supervision
(b) An officer may take up the subjects of the 1st Efficiency
Bar Examination on one and the same occasion or on
separate occasions.
(c) Each paper will be of 3 hours duration.
03. Syllabus of Examination :
(01) General Administration :
(a) The Ceylon Government Order in Council, 1946 and
1947 (Chapter 379)
The Citizenship Act, No. 18 of 1948 (Chapter 349)
The constitution adopted and enacted on 22nd May,
1972
Registration of persons eligible to vote - Act, No. 44 of
1980
Parliamentary Elections Act, No. 19 of 1981
Referendum Act, No. 07 of 1981
Presidential Elections Act, No. 15 of 1981
The Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1603
(b) Office and Field Organization and Methods
The Establishments Code and other Government
Regulations.
Chapters I, II, III, IV , V , VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XVI, XXV ,
XXVI, XXVII, XXIX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,
XLVIII.
(02) Finance :
(a) The Financial Regulation of the Government - Part I
(Except Chapter 1)
(b) The Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure of the
current year, eg. their arrangements, the Head of
Revenue, Finance and Appropriation Acts.
(c) Ordinances and other Legislation relating of Specific
Accounts dealt with in Education Offices.
(03) Education, Educational Law, Administration and
Supervision :
(a) Education Law – Candidates are excepted to be familiar
with following ordinances and Acts of Parliament :
* Education Ordinance No. 31 of 1939
* Amendment Ordinance No. 26 of 1947
* Amendment Act, No. 05 of 1951
* Amendment Act, No. 43 of 1953
* Code of Regulations for Government Schools
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 05 of 1960
* Assisted Schools and Training Colleges
(Supplementary Provisions) Act, No. 08 of 1961
* Education (Change of Designations) Act, No. 35 of
1973
* Pirivena Act, No. 64 of 1979
* The Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 1981
* National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985.
(b) Educational Administration :
1. Policies of the Ministry of Education :
(i) Ministry of Education
(ii) District Ministry of Education. Organization
and functions of the Ministry of Education and
the Departmental Institutions under the
Ministry including Departments.
(iii) Educational Planning at National and Regional
levels ; Aims and objectives, methods (including
school mapping), implementation etc.
2. School Management, School community relationship
3. Educational Management Information Systems.
4. Special Education Programmes.
(c) Educational Supervision :
* Scheme for school supervision and criteria used in
evaluation of teacher performance
* Continuous evaluation programmes in schools
* Self evaluation programms in schools
* School Supevision by the District Departments and
the Ministry of Education
* Validation of Internal Evaluation by External Teams
(Candidates are advised to be thorough with the
Circulars, Manuals and other publications issued
by the Ministry of Education)
Reference :
* Asian Institutes of Educational Planning and
Administration (1970)
* Modern Management Techniques in Educational
Administration
* A Report of a Seminar - New Delhi
* Barry and Tye. (1975) Running a school - Temple
Smith London
* Bush T. Glatter, R. Good, C. Riches, (eds. 1980)
Schools
* Approaches to School Management, Harper and
Row
* Dr. Khan Mohideen Sheriff (1983) School
Administration, New Delhi
* Ministry of Education - Ceylon (1969) Education
in Ceylon
* A Centenary V olume Part II, Part III Ministry of
Education and Cultural Affairs, Ceylon
* Open University (1981) Policy Making,
Organization and Leadership in Schools (Block 4 of
Course E 323) Open University Press London
* Shipman, Murten (1983) in School Evaluation,
Heineman Education Books, London
* Report on the Management Reforms in the Ministry
of Education 1984.
04. Candidates should obtain 40% of the total marks allocated
for each subject for a pass.
05. Language medium of the Examination :
(i) Candidates can answer the question papers either in
the Official Language or in the National Language.
(ii) Candidates can answer in the language medium of the
Competitive Examination he passed to enter the public
service or if there was no competitive examination,
language medium of qualifying examination to enter
the public service.
06. If it is detected that a candidate has answered the question
papers in a language medium for which he/she is not entitled
his/her candidature will be cancelled. He/She will not be
allowed to change the language medium applied for, at a
later stage.
07. Application should be prepared and submitted by using a
A4 size paper in conformity with the specimen form
indicated below. (Items 01 to 06 should appear in the first
page and the remaining items should appear in the second
page) In the Sinhala application the name of the examination
should be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala and in
the Tamil application the name of the examination should
be indicated in English in addition to Tamil. Relevant
Information in the application should be clearly written in
candidate's own handwriting. Applications which are not

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1604
in conformity with the specimen form and those which are
incomplete will be rejected without notification. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with the
candidate. Candidates should be vigilant as to whether the
duly completed application is in conformity with the
specimen form and it should be noted that the application
will be rejected if it is not so.
08. The examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates are bound by
the rules prescribed by him for conducting examinations.
These rules are indicated at the end of this notification.
09. Applications should be forwarded under registered post
through Heads of Departments addressed to the
Commissioner General of the Examinations. Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Sri Lanka Examinations
Department, Pelawatta, Battaramulla to be received on or
before 01st October, 2010. Name of the examinations should
be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope. Any
application received after this date will be rejected.
10. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
candidates a newspaper notification to that effect will be
published by the Department of Examinations. If the
admission cards are not received even after 02 or 03 days
of the publication of the newspaper notice it should be
notified to the Department of Examinations according to
the instructions in the newspaper notice. A certified
photocopy of the application retained with the candidate,
the registration receipt and the Fax No. for sending the
admission card if the candidate is a resident outside
Colombo should be sent to the Examinations Department.
A copy of the letter of request send to the Examinations
Department should be retained with the candidate.
(i) Name of examination ;
(ii) Full name of candidate ;
(iii) Candidates address in full ;
(iv) Date of posting the app lication, registered letter
number and Post Office.
11. Complains from candidates who fail to fulfill the
requirements indicated in para 9 above will not be
considered.
12. At the examination hall it is the responsibility of the
candidates to produce evidence in proof of their identity
and for this purpose only the identity card issued by the
Department of Registration of persons or a valid passport
will be accepted.
13. It has been decided to charge examination fees on the
following basis from the candidates. "The receipt obtained
by paying the relevant examination fee to any of the District
or Divisional Secretariats of the island as to credit the
revenue head No. 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General of
Examinations should be pasted on the due space. Please
make sure that only one edge of the receipt is affixed on the
space provided. (It would be useful to keep a copy of the
receipt with you) ".
(a) First attempt (Examination fee for the entire examination
or part of the examination will not be charged)
(b) For each subsequent attempt :
For  entire examination Rs. 1,000
For each subject Rs. 500
14. The issue of an admission card should not be considered an
acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the qualifications to
appear for the examination.
S
UNIL S. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
'Isurupaya', Battaramulla,
19th August, 2010.
Application Form
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS
IN CLASS III OF THE SRI LANKA EDUCATIONAL
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2010
Y%S ,xld wOHdmk mßmd,k fiajfha III jeks mka;sfha
ks,OdÍka i|ydjk m<uqjk ld¾hCIu;d lvbï úNd.h
(To be forwarded to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla
by registered post through the Head of the Department)
Language medium for the examination :Sinhala 2
Tamil 3
English 4
(Relevant number to be written within cage)
(Name of examination should be written on the top left corner in
the envelope)
01. ( a) Name with initials with at the end (English Capital Letters)
:––––––––––.
Example : SILV A, S. A.
(b) Names denoted by initials (English Capital Letters) :––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official Address :––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :––––––––––.
(iii) Address for dispatch of Admission Card (English Capital
Letters) :––––––––––.
03. Subjects offered with subject numbers as indicated in para 02(a)
in the notification to be written clearly :
Subject Number Subject ..................
Subject Number Subject ..................
Subject Number Subject ..................
04. National Identity Card No. :

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1605
05. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
06. (i) Designation :––––––––––.
(ii) Department/Zonal Education office/Divisional Education
Office/School :––––––––––.
07. State whether you have appeared for this examination
previously, in whole or in part and if so state year, subjects and
medium in which answers were written :
Year Subject Media
.................. ................... ....................
.................. ................... ....................
.................. ................... ....................
08. I hereby declare that the particulars furnished above are true
and correct and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the
medium indicated in para. 06 above. I also agree to abide by all
the rules and regulations of the examination. I also declare that
I will be subject to the rules and regulations to be imposed
relating to this examination by the Commissioner General of
Examinations.
09. The amount of examination fees paid :
Paste the receipt received after payment here. (A photocopy
to be retained by the candidate) only if relevant.
––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Submitted
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear as above is
eligible to sit this examination and that he/she is entitled to sit in the
language medium indicated by him/her in para. 6.
I mention further that the receipt for payment is affixed
above (*).
–––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of the
Head of Department and official frank.
Date :––––––––––.
(*) To be deleted when payment of fees is not requested.
09–208
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
GOVERNMENT  LIBRARIANS’  SERVICE  -  2010
ACCORDING to the provisions of the Sri Lanka Government
Librarians' Service Minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No. 1620/22
dated 24.09.2009, applications are hereby called from the qualified
citizens of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination for
recruitment to posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Government
Librarians’ Service.
2.0 This examination will be held in Colombo in month of
December 2010 by the Commissioner General of Examinations and
the candidates who have satisfied qualifications based on the merit
on the results of this examination will be selected for appointment
to the posts in Class III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ Service.
3.0 Number of candidates appointed and the effective date of
appointment will be determined by the Appointing Authority. The
Appointing Authority reserves the right to fill a certain number of
vacancies or not to fill any of the vacancies.
4.0 Salary.– According to the Public Administration Circular
No. 06/2006(iv) dated 24.08.2007, salary code applicable to class
III of Sri Lanka Government Librarians’ Service is MN 3 - 2006-A
and the monthly salary scale is Rs. 15,005 - 4 x 180-6x240-11x320-
20x360- Rs. 27,885.
5.0 This post is permanent and pensionable.
6.0 Qualifications:- Candidates are required to possess following
qualifications for recruitment to posts in Class III of Sri Lanka
Government Librarians' Service :–
(a) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30
years of age on the closing date of applications.
(a) (i) Shall have obtained a Credit pass for one of the
subjects i.e. Sinhala, Tamil, English at G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination ;
(ii) Shall have passed six subjects with Credit passes
for Mathematics and two other subjects at GCE
(O/L) Examination. (Candidates are required to pass
five out of these six subjects at one sitting with 4
Credit passes) ;
(iii) Shall have passed in three main subjects at  G. C.
E. (A/L) at one sitting ;
and
(d) (i) Shall have possessed a three-year Diploma on Library
Science from a recognized university ; or
(ii) Shall have possessed three-year Diploma on Library
Science from Sri Lanka Library Association.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1606
Note:
(i) It is compulsory to satisfy all these qualifications on
or before 04.10.2010 ;
(ii) No candidate is allowed to sit the open competitive
examinations for recruitment to posts in Class III of
Sri Lanka Government Librarians' Service more than 3
occasions.
7.0 Scheme of Examination.– This examination will consist of
three question papers. The examination will be held in Sinhala,
Tamil and English media and the candidates will not be allowed to
change the medium of examination selected by them :–
Subjects Marks Duration
(i) Library Science 100 03 hrs.
(ii) Intelligence Test 100 01 hr.
(iii) General Knowledge 100 01 hr.
The syllabus prescribed for the above subjects  :
7.1 Library Science :
(1) Libraries and Librarianship  :
(a) Libraries and history of libraries, main libraries of the
modern and ancient world ;
(b) Origin and evolution of the art of writing and other
written media including books ;
(c) Origin of printing technology, expansion and influence
of the printing technology on libraries and the subject
of social development.
(d) Types of libraries :
(i) Special libraries
Structure, functions and services of libraries in
the institutions such as Ministries, Departments
and Co-operations and research libraries ;
(ii) Academic libraries
Structure, functions and services of libraries in
Universities and other higher educational
institutions ;
(iii) School libraries ;
(iv) Public libraries ;
(v) Libraries in pirivenas, temples and libraries in
other religious institutions, monasteries.
(e) Library committees
Structure, necessity, significance and role of library
committees ;
(f) Organizations of professionals in relation to library
field and functions of such organizations - National
& International Levels (Sri Lanka, India, America,
Great Britain) ;
(g) Buildings of libraries.– Planning and other aspects to
be considered ;
* Establishments of a library in an existing building,
organization of improvement
(h) Maintenance, conservation and preservation of
library equipment ;
(i) Disasters and disaster management.
(2) Organization of Information and Knowledge  :
(a) Objectives and benefits of book classification ;
(b) Main classification methods applied in the libraries
in Sri Lanka: Dewey decimal classification, universal
decimal classification ;
(c) Objectives of cataloguing, Anglo-American Cataloging
Rules (AACR) ;
(d) Bibliographical description ;
(e) Compilation of entries using AACR-2.
(3) Library Resources and Information Services  :
(a) Various library resources ;
(b) Improving collections, policies for improving
collections and importance ;
(c) Acquisition, process including selection of library
resources :
(i) Principals and sources of the selection of library
resources;
(ii) Technological services including acquisition
process, processing;
(iii) Stock taking and weeding process.
(d) Publishing, copyright and censorship ;
(e) Current awareness services ;
(f) Awareness programme for readers ;
(g) Public relations and publicity for libraries.
(4) Information Communication Technology :
(a) Application of computer technology in libraries,
significance and productivity of information
technology in library activities and functions.
* A question paper consisting of compulsory questions
in the nature of structured essays/essays covering
above four fields.
7.2 Intelligence Test :
This paper will be designed to assess the candidate’s capacity
for comprehension, quantification and perception of
time-space relations by measuring candidate’s inference and
responses to problems presented in verbal, numerical and
spatial context.
* A question paper consisting of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions for short answers

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1607
7.3 General Knowledge :
This paper will be designed to assess the candidates
awareness and understanding of social, cultural, educational,
political, economical and any other relating factors operating
at national, regional and global environment or organizations
as well as our society and also to assess general knowledge
of candidates in Library Science and library field.
* A question paper consisting of 50 multiple choice
questions and questions for short answers.
Candidates should score a minimum of 40% marks for each
paper to become qualified for an appointment.
Appointments will be made strictly following the order of
marks so as to fill the number of vacancies reserved for
open competitive examination.
8.0 Examination Fees:- Examination fee is Rs. 250. This fee can
be paid to any Divisional or District Secretariat under the head
20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The
receipt obtained should be affixed in the relevant cage of the
application so as not to be detached. (It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt for future reference) Under no
circumstances the examination fee will be refunded and money
orders and stamps are accepted.
9.0 Applications .– Applications should be prepared in the
following manner using both sides of a paper of size A4 (21 x 29cm)
(normal halfsheets) and it should be filled by the candidates language
medium in which he/she sits the examination :–
(a) Cages from 1 to 3 should appear on the first side of the
page ;
(b) Cages from 4 onwards should appear on the other pages ;
(c) The title of the examination appearing in the specimen
should be indicated in English language as well, on both
Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
Applications which are incomplete and not prepared in
accordance with the specimen form will be rejected without any
notice. Applications of those who haven't paid examination fee on
or before due date will also be rejected. Candidates should be
responsible for any loss incurred by them due to incomplete
applications. It would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the
completed application form. It is the responsibility of the candidate
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice as
otherwise the application may be rejected.
9.1 All applicants who have paid prescribed examination fees
and forwarded their applications on or before the
prescribed date will be allowed to sit the competitive
examination, by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, on the presumption that only those who
possess qualifications as indicated in the Gazette
Notification have forwarded their applications. Issue of
an admission card to a candidate to sit the competitive
examination does not mean to have accepted that he
possesses all the qualifications for this post. If it was
found at the interview that the applicant does not possess
the required qualifications his or her candidature will be
cancelled.
9.2 The words “Open Competitive Examination for
Recruitment to Class III of Sri Lanka Government
Librarians’ Service - 2010” should be written on the top
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application
is enclosed.
9.3 Candidate’s signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Notary
Public, Commissioned Officer in the armed forces, an
officer holding a gazetted post in the Police Service or an
Officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service
whose annual salary is Rs. 240,360 or above.
9.4 Applications duly perfected should be sent by registered
post to reach the following address on or before 04th of
October, 2010 :
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Overseas Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
10.0 Sitting the examination.– A notification will be published in
newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the
candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3
days of such an advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the
advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in hand
at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at your
possession, receipt of registration and in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the
admission card should be sent.
11.0 Candidates should furnish one of the following documents
to the Supervisor of examination in support of their identity :-
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department for
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
12.0 Penalty for furnishing false information. – The candidate
should be very careful to include correct particulars in the
application. If it is found that any candidate is not eligible according
to the rules and regulations of this examination, his/her candidature
can be cancelled at any time before, during or after the examination.
Further, if it is found that any information furnished by a candidate
is false, he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the Public
Service.
13.0 Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
purpose of conducting examinations and they shall be liable to be

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1608
subjected to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations.
14. This examination notification will be published in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages and in case of any inconsistency among
texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. Any matter not referred to
herein will be decided by Director General of Combined Services.
All candidates are bound to comply with the general examination
rules pubilshed in this gazette.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARA THNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
18th of August, 2010.
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF SRI LANKA
GOVERNMENT LIBRARIANS’ SERVICE – 2010
(Indicate the correct code/number clearly in the relevant cages)
(for office use only)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 Name :–
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals) Eg. PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 Number of the N. I. C. :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 04.10.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications :
4.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) examination (First sitting) :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.2 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) examination (Second sitting):
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
4.3 Particulars of G. C. E (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number of candidate :––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
4.4 Particulars of three-year diploma in relation to Library
Science obtained by the candidate to sit for the
examination as per Para 6.0( d) of the examination
notification :
(i) University/Institute :––––––––––.
(ii) Dip loma :––––––––––.
(iii) Year :––––––––––.
5.0 Other qualifications :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1609
6.0 Have you ever been convicted for any offence in a court of
Law ? (Indicate particulars, if the answer is yes)
(Indicate 3 in the relevant cage)
Yes N o
7.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(i) Office to which the payment made :––––––––––.
(ii) Number and the date of the receipt :––––––––––.
(iii) Amount :––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
(Please keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Candidate’s certificate :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree to suffer any loss that may be caused
as a result of any information not being completed and/
or any information erroneously being included here. I
also state that all sections herein have been correctly
filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examinations for the
prupose of holding this examination.
(d) I do not change any information mentioned herein later.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Attestation of Applicant’s Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ who
submits this application is known to me personally and that he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ................... and further
the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the
receipt on the application.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting the signature :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
09–171
DEPARTMENT OF RAILWAYS
Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment of
external candidates for  the Post of Station Master - 2010
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for filling
140 vacancies in the post of Station Master, Class III of the
Department of Railways. The candidates should not be less than
18 years and not more than 30 years of age (Upper age limit will not
apply to applicants who are already in the public service) as at
08.10.2010.
The closing date of applications is 08.10.2010. All applications
should be sent under registered cover to reach the General Manager
of Railways, P.O. Box 355, Colombo 10 before the closing date of
applications. No application should be sent to the personal name
or delivered by hand. Applications which are incomplete, informal,
not in conformity with the requisite qualifications, fees not duly
paid, and late will be rejected without prior notice. The candidates
of the public sector and the Provincial Public Service should forward
their applications through the heads of their institutions before the
due date. The porposed examination centre- towns and their
numbers are given in schedule I, Applications should be prepared
giving the relevant heading, centre town and number assigned. The
relevant town mentioned will not be allowed to change subsequently.
However an examination centre may be cancelled and applicants
transferred to the nearest centre, if a sufficient number of applications
are not received for the particular centre.
Schedule I
EXAMINATION CENTER TOWNS
Kotahena 01
Maradana 02
Borella 03
Kuruduwatta 04
Bambalapitiya 05
Havelok Town 06
Nugegoda 07
Moratuwa 08
Piliyandala 09
Homagama 10
Maharagama 11
Hanwella 12
Awissawella 13
Negambo 14
Minuvangoda 15
Divulapitiya 16
V eyangoda 17
Gampaha 18
Ja-ela 19
Wattala 20
Kalaniya 21
Dompe 22
Horana 23
Panadura 24
Kaluthara 25
Matugama 26

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1610
Aluthgama 27
Mathale 28
Galewela 29
Naula 30
Laggala - Pallegama 31
Kandy 32
Katugastota 33
Teldeniya 34
Wattegama 35
Nugawela 36
Galagedara 37
Gampola 38
Mandaunawewa 39
Nuwara eliya 40
Watumulla 41
Hattan 42
Ginigathhena 43
Ambalangoda 44
Galle 45
Baddegama 46
Weligama 47
Matara 48
Kaburupitiya 49
Hakmana 50
Deiyandara 51
Dikwella 52
Akuressa 53
Kotapola 54
Beliatta 55
Walasmulla 56
Weerakatiya 57
Tangalle 58
Ambalantota 59
Hambantota 60
Tissamaharama 61
Chavakachcheriya 62
Jaffna 63
Telippalei 64
Point Pedro 65
Mannarama 66
Murukkan 67
Mulathivu 68
Vavuniya 69
Kanthale 70
Trinkomalee 71
Muttur 72
Padavi Parakramapura 73
Kinniya 74
Batticaloa 75
Eravur 76
Kathankudy 77
Ampara 78
Serankada 79
Kalmune 80
Akkarapattu 81
Samanthure 82
Wennappuwa 83
Madampe 84
Chilaw 85
Puttalama 86
Kuliyapitiya 87
Bingiriya 88
Narammala 89
Polgahawela 90
Kurunegala 91
Ibbagamuwa 92
Dodamgaslanda 93
Morathiha 94
Nikawaratiya 95
Maho 96
Medawachchiya 97
Kakirawa 98
Anuradhapuraya 99
Galenbidunuwewa 100
Kahatagasdigiliya 101
Polonnaruwa 102
Higurakgoda 103
Bandarawela 104
Welimada 105
Badulla 106
Passara 107
Mahiyanganaya 108
Giradurukotte 109
Hasalaka 110
Bibila 111
Monaragala 112
Wellawaya 113
Kegalla 114
Rabukkana 115
Mawanella 116
Ruwanwella 117
Ehiliyagoda 118
Ratnapura 119
Palmadulla 120
Balangoda 121
Kalawana 122
Embilipitiya 123
Kilinochchiya 124
Pallae 125
(01) Post for which applications are called for :
Station Master III.
(02) Nature of duties in the post :
Duties of multiple nature including matters relating to
finance, commerce, co-ordination, operation, tickets and
accounting should be performed.
(03) Salary Scale :
(As per P. A. Circular No. 06/2006(IV)  MN-3- 2006-A
Rs. 15,005-4x180-6x240-11x320-20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
(04) A.  Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) examination in
06 subjects with credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil/
English and Maths and in two other subjects in one
sitting ; and

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1611
(ii) Should have passed the G.C.E. (Advanced Level)
examination in three (03) subjects (except general
test) in one sitting under the new syllabus or in three
subjects (03) in one sitting under the old syllabus.
B. Physical qualifications :
(i) Every candidate should be physically fit in all
respect to serve in any part of the island.
(ii) Should be of round physique to perform the duties
of the post.
(iii) Should have in height of at least 05 feet 04 inches
and chest 32 inches.
(iv) Should pass a vision test 6x6
C. Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Candidates should be of excellent moral character.
(iii) Only male candidates are eligible to apply.
(iv) Qualifying date :
A candidate will be considered as having satisfied the
eligibility criteria only if he has completed all the
requirements as at the date of publication of this notification
in the Gazette. Copies of original certificates should be
attached to the application.
(05) Scheme of Recruitment.–  Recruitment will be made in the
order of merit obtained at the open written competitive
examination to be held for candidates with qualifications
referred to in (04) above.
(06) Examination Procedure for Recruitment :
(i) The examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
(ii) Scheme of Examination –
(a) Examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English media.
(b) Candidates should appear for all the question
papers in the language media qualified under (04)
above. The medium of language will not be
allowed to change subsequently.
(iii) Subjects of the examination
(a) Language Ability
(b) Aptitude Test
Syllabus :
(a) Language ability
Time 1 1/2 hours Marks 100
The paper consists of two parts. Equal marks
will be given for each part.
Part I
Essay and precis writing is included in this part.
Part II
The second part consists of certain passages to
test the candidates' understanding of the language.
The candidates are expected to express in one
sentence the meaning of words underlined or write
notes of criticism or select the most appropriate
statement out of the alternatives given or select
the correct answer out of the answers to the
question given.
(b) Aptitude Test
Time 01 hour 100 Marks
This is designed to asses the candidates' critical
analysis and capabilities and arriving at the correct
forecasting of events, general knowledge and
intelligence. This is a multiple choice question
paper requiring short answers to question relating
to environment, Gereral Knowledge or
mathematical problems.
Scheme of Selection :
To Qualify in each subject 50 marks or more
should be obtained. The candidates who pass in
both the subjects having obtained the highest marks
will be summoned for an interview for examining
their qualifications. No marks will be given at the
interview. Recruitment to the post of Station
Master, class III will be made from among them
who have satisfied the eligibility criteria stipulated
and who have obtained highest marks in both the
subjects depending on the availability of vacancies
referred to in Para 01 above.
(07) Instructions for preparation and completion of
applications
(i) Application should be prepared on A 4 size (typing
sheet) paper using both sides.
Details of application form :-
01 - 10 on Page 1
11 - 13 on Page 2
Certification of Signature and certificate of Head of
Dept/Institute should be included in Page 3
Applications which do not conform to the
specimen form of application and incomplete
applications will be rejected without prior notice.
It would be useful for the candidates to keep a
copy of application with them. The candidates
should examine whether the completed application
is in conformity with the specimen form given in
the notification of the examination. If not, the
application will be rejected. In preparing the
application, the heading of the examination should
be indicated in English in addition to Sinhala in the

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1612
Sinhala form. It is also necessary to indicate in
English in addition to Tamil in Tamil form.
(ii) The examination fee is Rs.250/-. It can be paid to
the nearest post office convenient to you. The
original of the money order that obtained after
payment of fees should be affixed on the space
provided so as not to get it detached. Annexing a
photo copy of the money order will be liable to
rejection. M. O. should be drawn in favour of the
General Manager of Railway for encashable at the
Maradana Post Office.
(iii) No original certificates should be sent along with
the application. The department will not be held
responsibility for any such originals sent.
(iv) The top left hand corner of the envelope containing
the application should be marked "Open
Competitive Examination for recruitment to Station
Master Class III Department of Railways, 2010"
You should also indicate district and the number of
the centre applied for.
(v) The signature of the external candidates should be
attested by a Principal of a Government School or
a Justice of the Peace or Commissioner of Oaths or
Notary Public or Commissioned officer of the three
forces or a gazette Police officer or an officer drawing
a monthly combined initial salary of Rs. 19,755/-
or more as per P. A. circular No.6/2006.
(vi) In the case of officers already in public service,
their signature should be attested by the immediate
head of the institution. It is compulsory that they
should send their application through the Heads of
the Institutions.
(vii) In predetermining that only the candidates qualified
in accordance with the gazette notification have
applied for on or before the stipulated date having
paid the due examination fees, the Commissioner
General of Examination will allow all the candidates
to appear for the competitive examination. The issue
of an admission card to apper for the examination
does in no way mean the acceptance of the fact that
the candidate has fulfilled all the required
qualification. If it is detected at the time of examining
the qualification of candidates at the interview that
they do not posses the requisite qualifications, their
candidature will be liable to be cancelled.
(viii) No sooner the admission cards are issued, a press
notification will be published by the Sri Lanka
Examination Department. If the admission card is
not received within 02 or 03 days after the
publication of the notice, it should be brought to
the notice of the Examination Department as per
the notification. It would be very effective to inform
the Sri Lanka Department of Examination by
keeping a Photostat copy of the application, the
post office registration number, and your letter of
request indicating the fax number if in an area outside
Colombo for the purpose of sending the admission
card.
(ix) In all cases of examinations conducted by the
Commissioner of Examination, only the valid
passport or the National Identity card issued by
the Commissioner for Registration of Persons will
be accepted.
(x) The issue of an admission card should not be
considered as an acceptance that the candidate has
fulfilled the eligibility criteria stipulated for the
examination.
(xi) The candidates are subject to the rules and
regulations made by the Commissioner General of
Examination. Any contravention of such rules and
regulations will result in cancellation of the
candidature by the Commissioner General of
Examination.
08. Service Condition.– The candidates who are recruited to the
post of Station Master Class III are subject to a 03 year period of
probation. They should pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination
within a period of 03 years from the date of appointment to the
post of Station Master, Class III. During the probationary period,
06 month practical and theoretical training will be given at the
Railway Model School. At the end of the training they should pass
a departmental examinaton conducted by the General Manager of
Railways.
09. Service conditions of employment :
1. The post is permanent and pensionable. If contributions
have already been made towards the W. & O. P. scheme,
they should continue to do so.
2. Selected candidates will be subject to the provisions of
the Establishments code and financial regulations and
Public Administration circulars, orders and regulations
that may be issued by the government from time to time.
P.  P.  W
IJESEKARA,
General Manager of Railways.
Office of the General Manager of Railways,
Colombo 10,
19th August, 2010.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1613
(Before completion of the application form prepared on A-4 size
paper using both sides, the candidate should read well and
understand carefully this notification calling for applications.)
SPECIMEN FORM
For office use only
City applied for appearing City City Number
the examination
1st preference
2nd preference
(Please see the commencing paragraph of the notification
of the examination changing of city subsequently will not
be allowed)
D
EPARTMENT OF RAILW AYS
WRITTEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT OF EXTERNAL
CANDIDATES FOR THE POST OF STATION MASTER,
CLASS III-2010-SRI LANKA
01. Last Name with initials :
(i) Sinhala / Tamil :————.
(ii) English :————.
(eg. PERERA R. M.)
02. Name denoted by initials :
(i) Sinhala / Tamil :————.
(ii) English :————.
03. National Identity Card Number :
04. Permanent Address :
(i) Sinhala / Tamil :————.
(ii) English :————.
05. Sex :
Female 1
Male 0
Mark the relevant number in the cage
06. Residence :
(i) Grama Niladhari Division & Number :————.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :————.
(iii) District :————.
07. Ethnic group (mark the indicator number in the cage)
Sinhala 1/ Sri Lanka Tamil 2 / Indian Tamil 3 /
Muslim 4 / Burgher 5 / Malay 6
08. Medium applied for the examination :
Sinhala 2 / Tamil 3 / English 4
(mark the indicator number in the cage)
09. Citizenship (mark  3 in the relevant cage) :
By descent By registration
10. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at  08.10.2010 :
Years : Months : Days :
11. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination
Index No :————.     Year :————.
Serial Subject Grade
No.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vi)
(vii)
(viii)
(ii) G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination
Index No :————.     Year :————.
Serial Subject Grade
No.
(i)
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
12. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law. If so, give
details :
Yes N o
13. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) I certify that the particulars given by me above are true
and correct to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that
if any part of this application is incomplete and / or
found to be false or incorrect I am liable to be disqualified.
I personally bear its full consequences.
(b) I am also aware that I am liable to disqualification before
selection, and to dismissal of the inaccuracy is detected
after the appointment.
(c) Receipt bearing number ........... Obtained after payment
of Rs. 250 to the ................ Post office is annexed.
Attach the receipt here (Avoid pasting)
(d) I agree to abide by the condition of the examination.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1614
(e) I state that I am subject to the rules and regulation made
by the Commissioner General of Examination in
conducting this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
14. Attestation of signature :
I do hereby certify that the applicant .................... is known to
me well and that he placed his signature my presence.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of the person attesting :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
(Official frank should be used)
15. Certificate of the Head of Department / Institution :
(Only in respect of these who are already in Government /
Local Government Service)
Forwarded herewith the application of Mr................. of the
department / institution working as .......... from ............. to .............
No disciplinary charges are pending against him. His work, conduct
and attendance are satisfactory / unsatisfactory. I certify that he
has paid the due examination fees and that the receipt for same has
been attached. The applicant could be released / could not be released
from this department / institution, if selected for the post of Station
Master, Class III.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Head of
Department / Institution.
Date :————.
Name :————.
Designation :————.
Address :————.
(Official frank should be used)
09-141

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1615
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'09'03
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 03.09.2010
1616
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month D ate of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2010
SEPTEMBER 03.09.2010 Friday — 20.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
09.09.2010 Thursday –– 27.08.2010 Friday 12 noon
17.09.2010 Friday –– 03.09.2010 Friday 12 noon
24.09.2010 Friday –– 09.09.2010 Thursday 12 noon
OCTOBER 01.10.2010 Friday — 17.09.2010 Friday 12 noon
08.10.2010 Friday –– 24.09.2010 Friday 12 noon
15.10.2010 Friday –– 01.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
21.10.2010 Thursday –– 08.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
29.10.2010 Friday –– 15.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
NOVEMBER 04.11.2010 Thursday — 21.10.2010 Thursday 12 noon
12.11.2010 Friday –– 29.10.2010 Friday 12 noon
19.11.2010 Friday –– 04.11.2010 Thursday 12 noon
26.11.2010 Friday –– 12.11.2010 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.