

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'04'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2014
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl  1857$5  - 2014 wfm%a,a ui 08 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2014'04'08
No. 1857/5  -  TUESDAY ,  APRIL  08,  2014
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
ANIMAL   DISEASES  ACT,  No. 59  OF  1992
Order  on the relaxation of certain restrictions imposed by order made under Section 5(1) of the Animal Diseases Act,
No. 59 of 1992 and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1850/30 of 19.02.2014
WHEREAS,  No fresh case of Foot and Mouth Disease has  been reported in the Government Veterinary Surgeons Division
of  Kalmunai and Sammanthurai of Amparai District of the Eastern Province, a District declared as Foot and Mouth Disease
infected area under Section  5(1) of the Animal Diseases Act, 59 of 1992.
1. With effect from the date on which this order is published in the Gazette -
(1) the restrictions imposed by the order made under Section 5(1) of the Animal Diseases Act, No. 59 of 1992
and published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1850/30 of 19.02.2014 shall not apply to the Government
Veterinary Surgeon Division of Kalmunai and Sammanthurai of Amparai District of the Eastern Province,
(2) the slaughtering of animals and selling, exposing for sale, offering for sale, store, supply or distribution
and transportation of meat and carcass within the Government Veterinary Surgeon Division of Kalmunai
and Sammanthurai of Amparai District of the Eastern Province shall strictly be in accordance with the
conditions specified in the Schedule to this Order,
(3) No person shall remove from the Government Veterinary Surgeon Divisions of Kalmunai and Sammanthurai
of Amparai District of the Eastern Province any animal, meat or carcass, animal waste (including dung) and
litter material without a permit issued by an Authorized Veterinary Surgeon.
2. In order prevent spread from and control within the said Government Veterinary Surgeon Divisions of the Foot
and Mouth Disease, I do–
(1) by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 38 of the said Animal Diseases Act,
authorized the following officers to be an Authorized Officer for the purposes and within the meaning of
Section 3(2) of that Act.
 This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'04'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2014
2A
(i) the Director (Animal Health)  ;
(ii) the Deputy Director (Animal Health) ;
(iii) the Assistant Director (V eterinary Regulatory Affairs and Animal Welfare) ;
(iv) the Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health (Eastern Province) ;
(v) the District Veterinary Surgeon, Amparai District ;
(vi) the Government V eterinary Surgeons in charge of Government Veterinary Surgeons Division of
Kalmunai and Sammanthurai of Amparai District of the Eastern Province ;
(vii) The Livestock Development Officers or Livestock Development Instructors attached to the office of
the respective Government Veterinary Surgeons ;
(2) by virtue and in the exercise of powers vested in me under Section 3(2) of that Act, direct every Authorized
Officer under paragraph (1) above to take all measures and step to ensure strictly compliance with and
giving effect to the provisions of paragraph (1) of this order and to exercise the powers of An authorized
officer under Section 13 of the Animal Diseases Act for that purpose.
3. In this order,
(a) "animal" means a neat cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat and pig
(b) "Authorized Veterinary Surgeon" means
(i) the Director (Animal Health)  ;
(ii) the Deputy Director (Animal Health) ;
(iii) the Assistant Director (V eterinary Regulatory Affairs and Animal Welfare) ;
(iv) the Provincial Director of Animal Production and Health (Eastern Province) ;
(v) the District Veterinary Surgeon of Amparai District ;
(vi) the Government Veterinary Surgeons in charge of Government Veterinary Surgeons Division of Kalmunai
and Sammanthurai of Amparai District of the Eastern Province ;
4. This Order is in addition to the Order  published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1854/48 of 21.03.2014.
D
R. W. K. DE SILV A,
Director General,
Department of Animal Production and Health.
SCHEDULE
CONDITIONS SUBJECT TO WHICH THE SLAUGHTER OF ANIMALS AND THE SALE, EXPOSURE FOR SALE, OFFER FOR SALE, STORAGE, SUPPLY,
DISTRIBUTION AN TRANSPORTA TION OF MEAT AND CARCASS
1. Slaughter of Animal should be carried out strictly in accordance with the provisions of the Animals Act, No. 29 of
1958, the Butchers Ordinance, the Cruelty to Animals Ordinance and the Nuisances Ordinance.
2. Slaughter of Animal Should be carried out only at -
(a) Public Slaughter Houses approved under Section 26 of the Butchers Ordinance by the Minister or any
Officer authorized under the Minister of Local Government (Delegation of Powers) Act, No. 31 of 1970 ; or
(b) A Place approved by the Proper Authority under Section 14(a) of the Butchers Ordinance ;
(c) A Private Slaughter House licensed by the relevant Local Authority.
3. The following documents should have been obtained in respect of every premises under paragraph 2.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 14'04'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.04.2014
3A
(a) an Environmental Protection License issued under the National Environment Act, No. 47 of 1980 or any
other Statute of a Provincial Council relating to Environmental Protection ;
(b) A Certificate of Registration under the Factories Ordinance.
4. Only the following person can slaughter animal.
(a) the Holder of an Annual Butchers License issued under Section 4 of the Butchers Ordinance in accordance
with the provisions of Sections 5, 6 and 7 of that Ordinance ;
(b) the Holder of a  temporary Butchers License issued under Section 12 of the Butchers Ordinance ; or
(c) The holder of a Cattle Slaughter Permit under Section 18(1) of the Butchers Ordinance.
5. No Animal shall be slaughtered unless it has been inspected and certified by an authorized Veterinary Surgeon to
be free from any infectious or contagious disease (including the Foot and Mouth Disease and other Specified Disease).
Every animal so certified shall have been identified with an ear tag at the expenses of the owner of that animal.
6. All Cattle intended to be slaughtered should have been identified in accordance with the provisions of the
Animals Act, No. 29 of 1958.
7. Slaughtering of any animal shall be performed under the supervision of an Authorized Veterinary Surgeon or any
other person authorized by him in that behalf.
8. Every Person who slaughters an animal shall, at the time of slaughtering of animal, produce to an authorized
officer the following documents.
(a) the Butchers License ;
(b) Ownership voucher or a Certificate of Ownership in respect of that animal ;
(c) The Certificate issued by an Authorized Veterinary Surgeon to the effect that the animal is free from any
infectious or contagious disease (including Foot and Mouth Disease and other Specified Disease).
9. No Part of any Meat or carcass of an animal slaughtered or any part thereof shall be removed from the Slaughter
house Premises without a permission issued by an Authorized Veterinary Surgeon.
10. Selling, exposing for sale, offering for sale, storage, supply or distribution of meat or carcass of an animal
slaughtered or any part thereof shall be carried on except at the premises authorized by the Local Authority.
11. Only the meat or carcass or any part thereof, that has been approved by the authorized Veterinary Surgeon to be
from animal slaughtered in accordance with this Order shall be sold, exposed for sale, offered for sale, storage, supply or
distribution at the premises referred to in 10 above.
12. Only Vehicle approved by the Authorized Veterinary Surgeron shall be used for the transport of Meat or the
carcass.
13. Only the meat or carcass or any part  thereof that has been approved by the authorized Veterinary Surgeon to be
from animal slaughtered in accordance with this Order shall be transported.
04 - 650
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.