

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by  the Hon. T. Ranjith De Zoysa, M.P.  for Ratnapura District
on 20th October, 2015
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 11]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on September 28, 2015)
KASHIH BUNDA SRI LANKA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
2—PL 009303—425 (10/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
(Incorporation)
1
5
10
15
2—PL 009243—300  (09/2015)
20
AN  ACT TO INCORPORATE THE KASHIH BUNDA SRI LANKA
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the “Kashih
Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation” has heretofore been formed in
Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects
and transacting all matters connected  with the said
Foundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be expedient  to grant the said
application :
BE it  therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka
Foundation  (Incorporation)” Act, No.    of  2015.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members of  the “Kashih
Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be  a body corporate, with
perpetual succession under the name and style of  the “Kashih
Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation”  (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”)  and by that name may sue and be sued, with full
power and authority to have and  use a common seal and  to alter
the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be :—
(a) to give assistance and scholarships to needy children
enable them to continue their education, encourage
them to attend school regularly, assist them in their
educational, cultural, sports and scientific activities ;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation
of the Kashih
Bunda Sri
Lanka
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to give assistance and funds to public (Home) and
private orphanages, for food programmes,
construction and repairs of buildings and medical or
social training of nurses and officers ;
(c) to give assistance and funds to public schools for
constructions and repairs of buildings and training of
teachers ;
(d) to provide relief and welfare services in natural
disasters, disasters and unexpected incidents ;
(e) to provide sports materials, construct sports facilities
and grant programmes for the development of
teaching sports skills of the youth ;
(f) to create any activities (small industries or services)
that can generate, on a non-profit base, the revenues
to finance all actions in accordance to the above
objects ;
(g) to promore, arrange and organize events festivals,
artistic shows, publish newsletters or books to achieve
these objects ; and
(h) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreign
institutes or foundations which have similar objects.
4. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provision of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vested in a  Board of  Directors (hereinafter referred to as the
“Board”) consisting of the office bearers and such other
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board  of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of the Foundation holding office on
the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
(Incorporation)
3
5
10
15
20
25
(3) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacate his office earlier by death or
resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where due
to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such new member shall hold office for a period
of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters  and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the furtherance
of its objects or any one of them, including the power to
open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow or raise
moneys with or without security, to receive or collect grants
or donations, to invest its funds, to erect any building or
structure on any land held by the Corporation and to engage,
employ and dismiss officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by  the votes of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act, or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members and for the
maintaining of register of members ;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or
vacation of or removal from, office and the powers,
duties and functions of the office bearers ;
(c) the appoinment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions of the various officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation ;
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the
Corporation and any sub-committee thereof,
including the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereat ;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for member
of the Board  and  the Corporation ; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be  amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like  meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall  at all time be
subject to  rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The rules of the Institute in force on the  day
preceding to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation made under this section.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund All
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, transfer,
subscription, contribution or fees shall be deposited to the
credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the Board
of Management shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray and
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in carrying out the
objects of the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is, or are, by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
11. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as  may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section, “Qualified Auditor” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
or any other institute established by law,
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liability of
members.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
(Incorporation)
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by  the Council of such
institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
or of any other institute established by law,
possesses a certificate to practice as an
Accountant issued by the Council of such
institute.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of person as may be duly authorized by the Board
who shall sign their names on the instrument in token of
their presence and such signing shall be independent of the
signing of any person as a witness.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5
10
15
Seal of the
Corporation.
20
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

Kashih Bunda Sri Lanka Foundation
(Incorporation)
7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .