

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2491
2491
wxl 1"789 - 2012 foieïn¾ 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'12'14
No. 1,789 – FRIDAY, DECEMBER 14, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2493
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 04th January, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st
December, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— The Catelogue of books printed quarterly in October to December, 2009 has been published in Part V of this Gazette.
N.B.— (i) Dhamma School Teachers Fund  (Incorporation) bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 02nd November, 2012.
(ii) White Rose Foundation (Incorporation) bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of 02nd November, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2492
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2493
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATALE DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 16th January,  2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
20th November, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matale Matale Post of Medical Registrar of Births and District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Deaths of Matale Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Matale.
12–290
–––––––––––––––––
Amendment
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Education
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS 3 OF THE SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCATORS' SERVICE
THE following amendments are made to the Gazette Notification published in English medium for the recruitment to Class 3 of the Sri
Lanka Teacher Educators' Service, in the Gazette No. 1,786 dated 23.11.2012 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. The
closing date for applications is extended up to 31.12.2012.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2494
AMENDMENTS TO 1ST SCHEDULE
Serial Subject Educational and Professional Medium Places where
No. Qualifications vacancies exists
07 Biology (i) A bachelor of Science degree with As per previous As per previous gazette
Biology as a subject and a Post gazette notification notification
Graduate Diploma in Education
with a Distinction or a Credit pass,
from a recognized university
(Age 22-30 years)
09 Physics As per previous gazette notification Tamil Batticaloa Teachers Center
should be amended as
"Batticaloa Teachers
College"
10 Physical Education (iii) With a degree on Physical Education As per previous As per previous gazette
form a recognized university and gazette notification notification
teaching experience of not less than
07 years (age 22-30 years)
19 Electrical and As per previous gazette notification 3 Sinhala should be As per previous gazette
Electronic Technology amended as "3 Tamil" notification
S. M. G
OTABHAY A JA Y ARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
12–382
–––––––––––––––––––––
PROMOTION  TO  CLASS  I  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
PRINCIPALS'  SERVICE  BASED  ON  MERIT  AND
SENIORITY
APPLICATIONS are invited from officers who had entered Grade I
of Class 2 of the Principals' Service to be considered for promotion
to Class I of the Sri Lanka Principals' Service according to the
provisions of Paragraphs 23 to 26 of the Sri Lanka Principals' Service
Minute published in Gazette extraordinary No. 1,086/26 dated
02.07.1999. For this, applications prepared according to the model
form attached to this notice should be forwarded.
02. (a) Officers of Grade 2-1 of the Sri Lanka Principals' Service
who had received appointments and had completed a satisfactory
service period of 05 years by 01.07.2008 and had been made
permanent in the service are qualified to be considered for promotion
to Class I of this service on the basis of merit and seniority.
Note.– Satisfactory service period :
(i) If in the period immediately preceding 01.07.2008 all
increments due had been earned ; and
(ii) Has not during that period received any punishment on
disciplinary grounds (except a warning).
Officers who even though now retired, in relation to the dates
referred to above, had been in service up to that date or up to a date
thereafter and who had even though on a prior occasion for promotion
faced the interview but had not received a promotion or who had not
been able to apply are able to apply for this promotion.
03. Salary.– Class I salary of the Salary Scale Rs. 15,995 -5x240
- 5x330 - 7x400 -20x645 - Rs. 34,545 applicable to TS-3-2006 of the
Sri Lanka Principals' Service in terms of Public Administration
Circular : 06/2006(iv) is applicable to this post.
04. Method of Application.– The applicant should fill correctly all
the cages 1-13 of the application. Even one of these cages not being
filled would result in the application being rejected. Your application
should be prepared in two copies well on time to be able to be sent
to the Secretary, Ministry of Education by or before the last date for
the receipt of applications 14th January, 2013 ; one copy should be
sent under registered cover to the Zonal Director of Education of the
Zone to which your school belongs. You should send the other copy,
under registered cover to Secretary, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(a) Action should be taken to forward all applications received
with the recommendations of the Zonal Director of
Education before 14th January, 2013.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2495
(b) Applications should conform to the model application form
attached to this notice. Both sides of the paper of size 8
1/2x 12 should be used for this purpose. The application
should be filled in the applicant's own hand writing.
(c) On the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application the Grade applied for and the Province should
be given.
(d) Applications which do not conform to the model application
form in all respcts will be rejected. No complaint will be
entertained about applications delayed or lost in the post.
(e) Receipt of the application will not be acknowledged.
05. Interviews for selection :
(a) Selection will be made on the results of a structured
interview conducted by an interview board appointed by
the Secretary, Ministry of Education. This interview board
will examine the basic qualifications of the applicants.
(b) If in pursuance of this Gazette notice for promotions on
the basis of merit and seniority there are applicants
exceeding the number of vacancies, a number of applicants
not exceeding twice the number of vacancies (those with
the highest seniority in terms of the period of service in
Grade 2-1 of the Sri Lanka Principals' Service) will be
summoned for the structured interview.
(c) The scheme of marks that will be applied at the structured
interview will be as follows :
The scheme of marks for promotion of officers in Grade 2-1 of the
Sri Lanka Principals' Service on the basis of merit and seniority :
01. Period of service in Garde 2-1 of the Maximum 70
Sri Lanka Principals' Service
02. In relation of Educational qualifications -Maximum 10
Post- degree, Post Graduate Diploma
03. In relation to school activities, Maximum 10
co-curricular victories obtained for the
school (victories at the Zonal/District/
Provincial/National level)
04. Language skills - G . C. E. (O/L) :
(i) For officers whose first language is Tamil - Sinhala,
for officers whose first language is Sinhala - Tamil
(ii) English language Maximum 10
05. Computer use
For courses of study of over 6 months Maximum 10
06. Personality Maximum 10
Total marks 150
The date from which promotions to Class I of the Sri Lanka
Principals' Service on the basis of merit and seniority will be made
effective will be decided by the Secretary Education. If there is any
matter that is not covered by these regulations, the decision of the
Secretary, Ministry of Education on that matter will be the final.
S. M. G
OTABHAYA JAYARATNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
Model Application Form
PROMOTION TO CLASS I OF THE SRI LANKA
PRINCIPALS' SERVICE ON THE BASIS OF MERIT AND
SENIORITY
Province : Zone :
(To be forwarded to the Ministry of Education by the Zonal
Director of Education in charge of the Zonal Education Office).
01. (i) Last name with initials :––––––––––––.
(as appearing in the pay sheet)
(ii) Names for which the initials stand :––––––––––––.
02. (i) The school in which the officer is serving at present and
address :––––––––––––.
(ii) The present post :––––––––––––.
(iii( Date of first appointment as teacher :––––––––––––.
03. (i) Date of birth :––––––––––––.
Age at 01.07.2008 :
Years :–––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :–––––––.
(ii) National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
04. (i) The Provincial Education Department :––––––––––––.
(ii) The Zonal Education Office to which the present school
belongs :––––––––––––.
05. (i) The date appointed to/absorbed to Class 2 Grade I as per
the present Sri Lanka Principals' Service Minute 1086/20 :
––––––––––––.
(ii) The full period of service under (1) above as at 01.07.2008:
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :––––––––––––.
07. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2496
08. Particulars about training courses followed :––––––––––––.
09. Brief description of any punishment received (with year and
month) (except warnings) for any offence in the period
immediately preceding 01.07.2008 :––––––––––––.
10. Have salary increments in the period immediately preceding
01.07.2008 been earned ? :––––––––––––.
If not, reasons :––––––––––––.
11. If a special project has been done in the field of education,
particulars :––––––––––––.
12. If there is any disciplinary inquiry against you at present, the
present position :––––––––––––.
13. Leave particulars in the 03 year period immediately preceding
01.07.2008 :––––––––––––.
Year Number of leaves obtained
Casual Sick/Duty No-pay
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
I hereby state that I am qualified to be considered for promotion
to Class I of the Sri Lanka Principals' Service on the basis of merit
and seniority and that the particulars I have suppiled are correct.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
C
ERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT
I certify that the information given by the officer in this application
was found to be correct when checked the personal file and other
relevant documents and the officer qualifies to be considered for
promotion to Class I of the Sri Lanka Principal's Service on the basis
of merit and seniority.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Zonal Director of
Education/Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
12–381
GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELA WALA  DEFENCE
UNIVERSITY
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male/Female)
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans for
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male and Female) in the General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University from 18th November, 2012 to
07th December, 2012.
2. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University is
empowered to award degrees by the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments
thereto, to those who have successfully completed the academic and
Military components of studies pertaining to the degree programmes.
3. The degree programmes in the Engineering and Computer
Science streams applicable to these Cadets will be of four and half
year duration.
3.1 The allocation of Officer Cadets for three Services will be
based on the aggregate marks obtained at the three
interviews, conducted for selection and the availability of
vacancies in each service. Officer Cadets will be
Commissioned in the Regular Forces of Sri Lanka Army,
Navy or Air Force, after successful completion of the
degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military
training components of the degree programmes, the Officer
Cadets will be awarded Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in the
disciplines of Engineering or Computer Science, as
applicable.
3.3 All degree programmes are conducted in the medium of
English.
3.4 Selected candidates will have to follow one of the under-
mentioned Bachelors Degree Programmes.
(a) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Engineering in Air Craft
Maintenance/Mechantronic/Bio-Medical - Four and
half year course (Male only)
(b) Bachelor of science (B. Sc.) in Computer Science -
four and half year course (Male and Female)
(For those who have followed maths Stream at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination, passed three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for
the university admission (YES)).
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of
common and special subjects pertaining to respective
degree programmes, including English, Management, Law,
International Studies and Military subjects.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2497
3.6 They are also required to undergo continuous training in
Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and
Leadership during their degree Programmes.
4. Eligibility requirements.– Candidates should :
(a) Be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(b) Be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age on 28th February, 2012.
Educational Qualifications :
(c)  Become eligible to apply for University admission
and have fulfilled the following requirements :
(i) Passed the Common General Test.
(ii) Have a minimum of a Credit (C) pass for the subject
of English Language at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination.
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Height Male Female
Army : 5'6" 5'3"
Navy : 5'6" 5'3"
Air Force : 5'6" 5'4"
Weight Army : 50kgs
Chest 32" (unexpanded)
Note .– (If a candidate possesses outstanding
achievements in sports or other relevant fieds, the
above physical standards may be relaxed by the
Secretary, Ministry of Defence and Urban
Development and Chairman of the Board of
Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University).
(e) Confirm to the required medical standards.– Successful
candidates are rquired to pass a medical test to the
satisfaction of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and
Urban Development and Chairman of the Board of
Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University.
(f) Be unmarried (No Cadet Officer will be permitted to
marry whilst under training and until permitted to do
so by service regulations).
5. Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be enlisted as
Officer Cadets of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University. They will be subject to laws, regulations and orders
under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No.
68 of 1981 and subsequent amendmens thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment, selected candidates will have to enter
into a Bond and agreement with the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as applicable, after being
graduated in the respective degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid a salary and allowance of
approximately Rs. 25,000 per month. In addition to that, the following
facilities are also available free of charge for Officer Cadets :
(i) Board and lodging
(ii) Medical faciliites
(iii) Uniforms
(iv) Batmen facilities
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka
Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be paid, the pay and allowances
applicable to the rank in accordance with the service payd codes :
(a) The salary scales assigned to officers up to the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel/Commander/Wing Commander are as
follows :
2/Lt - Rs. 211,800 per annum
Pilot Officer - Rs. 229,200 per annum
Actg. Sub. Lt. - Rs. 189,240 per annum
Lieutenant/Sub - Rs. 275,220- 30x7,740 -
Lieutenant/Flying Rs. 507,420 per annum
Officer
Captain/Lieutenant/ - Rs. 321,660 - 24x7,740 -
Flt. Lieutenant Rs. 507,420 per annum
Major - Rs. 368,100 - 22x7,740 -
Rs. 538,380 per annum
Lt. Commander/ - Rs. 352,620 - 20x7,740 -
Sqn. Leader Rs 507,420 per annum
Lt. Colonel - Rs. 390,540 - 17x9,480 -
Rs. 551,700 per annum
Commander/Wing - 362,100 - 15x9,480 -
Commander Rs. 504,300 per annum
(b) The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) qualification allowance
(ii) Ration allowance
(iii) Disturbance allowance when ordered to live-in (for
married officers only)
(iv) Univform up keep allowance.
(c) The following facilities are available/allowances payable :
(i) Accommodation when ordered to live-in
(ii) Rent allowance
(iii) Uniform allowance
(iv) Batmen allowance
(v) One return duty warrant a month form place of work
to home station to those who are ordered to live-in.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'12'14
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.12.2012
2498
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force are governed by the
following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and conditions
of service :
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force Pay Code.
(ii) Current regulations for Officers of the Army/Navy/Air
Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity
Code published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to
undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice Chancellor,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and/or respective
Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training
to any part of Sri Lanka or aboard.
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to live-in, in
accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the respective
Service Establishments.
13. Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be required
to comply with any rules and regulations already made or that may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce
proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master-General and driving licenses
issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted for this
purpose.
15. Applications.– Application form and the brochure can be
down loaded from the university website : www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. Duly completed applications should accompany a receipt
obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (One Thousand Rupees) to any Branch
of Bank of Ceylon in favour of "The Vice Chancellor, General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University" to be credited to Current
Account Number "9405831" of Bank of Ceylon, Idama Branch,
Moratuwa. The applications of the applicants who do not possess
basic qualifications and the applications that are not duly filled in
accordance with the conditions of the information will be rejected.
The application fee will not be refunded.
17. The duly completed applications should be forwarded to the
"Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University,
Ratmalana" under registered cover to reach him on or before 17th
December, 2012. "Application for Cadetships" and the stream applied
for should be marked on the top left-hand corner of the envelope.
Applications received after the closing date or do not conform to the
requirements of this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications from Officers in Government Service and
Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through the
Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies and should
accompany a certificate to the effect that the officer would be released
if selected.
19. Applications should be sent with certified copies of
certificates of Registration of Birth, certified copies of the G . C. E.
(O/L), G . C. E. (A/L) result sheets with a certification to prove that
the candidate in eligible for university admission (yes).
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those
candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterion determined by the Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates who are selected from
the first interview will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection will be made by
the Final Selection Committee appointed by the Board of
management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
21. Candidates who will get selected for interviews and tests will
be informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such
interviews. No traveling or other expenses will be paid for this purpose
to applicants.
22. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so
by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
23. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. No
correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to rejected
applications.
G
OTABAYA RAJAPAKSA RWP, RSP psc.,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence and urban Development and
Chairman of the Board of Management,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
12–418