

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2069$05 - 2018 uehs ui 01 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2018'05'01
No. 2069/05  -  TUESDAY,  MAY  01,  2018
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
*RYHUQPHQW1RWL¿FDWLRQV
SRI  LANKA  ACCOUNTING  AND  AUDITING  STANDARDS  ACT,  No.  15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”), 
WKH,QVWLWXWHKDVDGRSWHGFKDQJHVWR6UL/DQND$FFRXQWLQJ6WDQG DUGV±6/)56	/.$6ZLWKH൵HFWIURPVW-DQXDU\
2018, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. These 
DPHQGPHQWVVKDOOEHH൵HFWLYHIRU¿QDQFLDOVWDWHPHQWVFRYHULQJSHULRGFRPPHQFLQJRQRUDIWHUWKH¿UVWGD\RI-DQXDU\7ZR
Thousand Eighteen. Earlier application is permitted. 
%\2UGHURIWKH&RXQFLO
$උඎඇൺ$අඐංඌ
6HFUHWDU\
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A, 
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
VW0D\
1A - PG 004986-06 (02/2022)
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS) changes effective for th e financial 
periods beginning on or after 01 January 2018
LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
7 Other comprehensive income comprises items of income and expense (including 
reclassification adjustments) that are not recognised in profit  or loss as required or 
permitted by other SLFRSs.
The components of other comprehensive income include:
(a) changes in revaluation surplus (see LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment and LKAS
38 Intangible Assets);
(b) remeasurements of defined benefit plans (see LKAS 19 Employee Benefits);
(c) gains and losses arising from translating the financial stat ements of a foreign operation
(see LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates);
(d) gains and losses on remeasuring available-for-sale financial as sets (see LKAS 39 from
investments in equity instruments designated at fair value thro ugh other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement):;
(da) gains and losses on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9.
(e) the effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge (see
LKAS 39 and the gains and losses on hedging instruments that hedge inve stments in
equity instruments measured at fair value through other compreh ensive income in
accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9 (see Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9);
(f) for particular liabilities designated as at fair value throu gh profit or loss, the amount of
the change in fair value that is attributable to changes in the  liability’s credit risk (see 
paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS 9);
(g) changes in the value of the time value of options when separating the intrinsic value and
time value of an option contract and designating as the hedging  instrument only the 
changes in the intrinsic value (see Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9); and
(h) changes in the value of the forward elements of forward contract s when separating the
forward element and spot element of a forward contract and desi gnating as the hedging 
instrument only the changes in the spot element, and changes in  the value of the foreign 
currency basis spread of a financial instrument when excluding it from the designation of 
that financial instrument as the hedging instrument (see Chapter 6 of SLFRS 9).
34 SLFRS 15 Revenue defines revenue andfrom Contracts with Customers requires an entity to 
measure itrevenue from contracts with customers at the fair valueamount of the consideration 
receivedto which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods
or receivable, taking into accountservices. For example, the amount of revenue recognised 
reflects any trade discounts and volume rebates the entity allows. An entity undertakes, in the 
course of its ordinary activities, other transactions that do n ot generate revenue but are 
incidental to the main revenue-generating activities. An entity  presents the results of such 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  3A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
transactions, when this presentation reflects the substance of the transaction or other event, by 
netting any income with related expenses arising on the same transaction. For example:
a) an entity presents gains and lo sses on the disposal of non- current assets, including
investments and operating assets, by deducting from the proceed samount of
consideration on disposal the carrying amount of the asset and related sellin g expenses;
and
68 The operating cycle of an entity is the time between the acquis ition of assets for processing 
and their realisation in cash or cash equivalents. When the ent ity’s normal operating cycle is 
not clearly identifiable, it is assumed to be twelve months. Current assets include assets (such 
as inventories and trade receivables) that are sold, consumed o r realised as part of the normal 
operating cycle even when they are not expected to be realised within twelve months after the 
reporting period. Current assets also include assets held prima rily for the purpose of trading 
(examples include some financial assets classified as that meet the definition of held for trading 
in accordance with LKAS 39SLFRS 9) and the current portion of nonc urrentnon-current
financial assets.
71 Other current liabilities are not settled as part of the normal  operating cycle, but are due for 
settlement within twelve months after the reporting period or held primarily for the purpose of 
trading. Examples are some financial li abilities classified as that meet the definition of held 
for trading in accordance with LKAS 39SLFRS 9, bank overdrafts, and the current portion of 
noncurrentnon-current financial liabilities, dividends payable, income taxes and othe r 
nontradenon-trade payables. Financial liabilities that provide financing on a longterm long-
term basis (ie are not part of the working capital used in the entit y’s normal operating cycle) 
and are not due for settlement within twelve months after the r eporting period are 
noncurrentnon-current liabilities, subject to paragraphs 74 and 75.
82 In addition to items required by other SLFRSs, the profit or loss section or the statement 
of profit or loss shall include line items that present the following amounts for the period:
(a) revenue;
(a) revenue, presenting separately interest revenue calculated usin g the effective
interest method;
(aa) gains and losses arising from the derecognition of financial as sets measured at 
amortised cost;
(b) finance costs;
(ba)impairment losses (including reversals of impairment losses or impairment 
gains) determined in accordance with Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9;
(c) share of the profit or loss of associates and joint ventures ac counted for using
the equity method;
(ca) if a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category 
so that it is measured at fair value through profit or loss, any gain or loss arising 
from a difference between the previous amortised cost of the financial asset and 
its fair value at the reclassification date (as defined in SLFRS 9);
(cb) if a financial asset is reclassified out of the fair value thro ugh other 
comprehensive income measurement category so that it is measured at fair value 
through profit or loss, any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income that is reclassified to profit or loss;
…….

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
86 Because the effects of an entity’s various activities, transact i on s  a n d ot h e r e v e n ts  di f f e r i n  
frequency, potential for gain or loss and predictability, disclosing the components of financial 
performance assists users in understanding the financial performance achieved and in making 
projections of future financial performance. An entity includes  additional line items in the 
statement(s) presenting profit or loss and other comprehensive income and it amends the 
descriptions used and the ordering of items when this is necessary to explain thenthe elements 
of financial performance. An entity considers factors including materiality and the nature and 
function of the items of income and expense. For example, a fin ancial institution may amend 
the descriptions to provide information that is relevant to the  operations of a financial 
institution. An entity does not offset income and expense items unless the criteria in paragraph 
32 are met.
93 Other SLFRSs specify whether and when amounts previously recogn ised in other 
comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss. Such r eclassifications are referred to 
in this Standard as reclassification adjustments. A reclassification adjustment is included with 
the related component of other comprehensive income in the peri od that the adjustment is 
reclassified to profit or loss. For example, gains realised on the disposal of available-for -sale 
financial assets are included in profit or loss of the current period. These amounts may have 
been recognised in other comprehensive income as unrealised gains in the current or previous 
periods. Those unrealised gains must be deducted from other com prehensive income in the 
period in which the realised gains are reclassified to profit o r loss to avoid including them in 
total comprehensive income twice.
95 Reclassification adjustments arise, for example, on disposal of a foreign operation (see LKAS 
21), on derecognition of available-for-sale financial assets (see  LKAS 39) and when a some
hedged forecast transaction affectscash flows affect profit or loss (see paragraph 1006.5.11(d)
of LKAS 39SLFRS 9 in relation to cash flow hedges).
96 Reclassification adjustments do not arise on changes in revalua tion surplus recognised in 
accordance with LKAS 16 or LKAS 38 or on remeasurements of defi ned benefit plans 
recognised in accordance with LKAS 19. These components are rec ognised in other 
comprehensive income and are not reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods. Changes 
in revaluation surplus may be transferred to retained earnings in subsequent periods as the 
asset is used or when it is derecognised (see LKAS 16 and LKAS 38). In accordance with 
SLFRS 9, reclassification adjustments do not arise if a cash fl ow hedge or the accounting for 
the time value of an option (or the forward element of a forwar d contract or the foreign 
currency basis spread of a financial instrument) result in amou nts that are removed from the 
cash flow hedge reserve or a separate component of equity, respectively, and included directly 
in the initial cost or other carrying amount of an asset or a liability. These amounts are directly 
transferred to assets or liabilities.
106 An entity shall present a statemen t of changes in equity as req uired by paragraph 10. 
The statement of changes in equity includes the following information:
(a) …
(b) …;
(c) and
(d) for each component of equity, a reconciliation between the carry ing amount at the
beginning and the end of the period, separately (as a minimum) disclosing changes
resulting from:
123 In the process of applying the entity’s accounting policies, ma nagement makes various 
judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that can si gnificantly affect the amounts 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  5A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
it recognises in the financial statements. For example, managem ent makes judgements in 
determining:
(a) whether financial assets are held-to-maturity investments;
(a) [deleted]
(b) when substantially all the si gnificant risks and rewards of ownership of financial assets
and lease assets are transferred to other entities; and
(c) whether, in substance, particular sales of goods are financi ng arrangements and
therefore do not give rise to revenue.; and
(d) whether the contractual terms of a financial asset give rise  on specified dates to cash
flows that are solely payments of prin cipal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding.
139M [These paragraphs refer amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not included 
in this edition.]
[Deleted]
139N [These paragraphs refer amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraph 
34. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 15.
139O [These paragraphs refer amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore notincluded 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 7, 68, 71, 82, 93, 95, 96, 106 and 
123 and deleted paragraphs 139E, 139G and 139M. An entity shall  apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 9.
139Q [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
139R [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
LKAS 2 Inventories
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
2 This Standard applies to all inventories, except:
(a) [deleted]
(b) financial instruments (see LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and LKAS
39SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition); andMeasurement); and
(c) biological assets related to agricultural activity and agricultural produce at the point
of harvest (see LKAS 41 Agriculture).
8 Inventories encompass goods purchased and held for resale inclu ding, for example, 
merchandise purchased by a retailer and held for resale, or lan d and other property held for 
resale. Inventories also encompass finished goods produced, or work in progress being 
produced, by the entity and include materials and supplies awai ting use in the production 
process. In the case of a service provider, inventories include  the costs of the service, as 
described in paragraph 19, for which the entity has not yet recognised the related revenue (see 
LKAS 18 Revenue).Costs incurred to fulfil a contract with a customer that do n ot give rise to 

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
inventories (or assets within the scope of another Standard) ar e accounted for in accordance 
with SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
19 To the extent that service providers have inventories, they mea sure them at the costs of their 
production. These costs consist primarily of the labour and oth er costs of personnel directly 
engaged in providing the service, including supervisory personnel, and attributable overheads. 
Labour and other costs relating to sales and general administra tive personnel are not included 
but are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. The cost of inventories 
of a service provide r does not include profit margins or non- attributable overheads that are 
often factored into prices charged by service providers.
[Deleted]
29 Inventories are usually written down to net realisable value ite m by item. In some 
circumstances, however, it may be appropriate to group similar or related items. This may be 
the case with items of inventory relating to the same product line that have similar purposes or 
end uses, are produced and marketed in the same geographical area, and cannot be practicably 
evaluated separately from other items in that product line. It is not appropriate to write 
inventories down on the basis of a classification of inventory,  for example, finished goods, or 
all the inven tories in a particular operating segment. Service providers generally accumulate 
costs in respect of each service for which a separate selling p rice is charged. Therefore, each 
such service is treated as a separate item.
37 Information about the carrying amounts held in different classi fications of inventories and the 
extent of the changes in these assets is useful to financial st atement users. Common 
classifications of inventories are merchandise, production supplies, materials, work in progress 
and finished goods. The inventories of a service provider may be described as work in progress.
40D The date of that opening statement of financial position shall be as at the beginning of the 
preceding period regardless of whether an entity’s financial st atements present comparative 
information for earlier periods (as permitted in paragraph 38C).
[Deleted]
40E SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amendedparagraphs 
refer2, 8, 29 and 37 and deleted paragraph 19. An entity shall apply those amendments when 
it applies SLFRS 15.
40F SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2 and deleted paragraphs 40A, 
40B and 40D. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
40G [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
LKAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
49 There are various circumstances in which cash and cash equivale nt balancedbalances held by 
an entity are not available for use by the group. Examples incl ude cash and cash equivalent 
balances held by a subsidiary that operates in a country where exchange controls or other legal 
restrictions apply when the balances are not available for gene ral use by the parent or other 
subsidiaries.
61 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  7A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
53 Hindsight should not be used when applying a new accounting policy to, or correcting amounts 
for, a prior period, either in making assumptions about what ma nagement’s intentions would 
have been in a prior period or estimating the amounts recognise d, measured or disclosed in a 
prior period. For example, when an entity corrects a prior peri od error in measuring financial 
assets previously classified as held -to-maturity investments in accordance with LKAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement , it does not change their basis of 
measurement for that period if management decided later not to hold them to maturity. In 
addition, when an entity corrects a prior period error in calculating its liability for employees’ 
accumulated sick leave in accordance with LKAS 19 Employee Benefits , it disregards 
information about an unusually severe influenza season during t he next period that became 
available after the financial statements for the prior period w ere authorised for issue. The fact 
that significant estimates are frequently required when amendin g comparative information 
presented for prior periods does not prevent reliable adjustmen t or correction of the 
comparative information.
54D [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
[Deleted]
54E [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph refers to53 
and deleted paragraphs 54A, 54B and 54D. An entity shall apply those amendments when it 
applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 10 Events after the Reporting Period
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
9 The following are examples of adjusting events after the reporting period that require an entity 
to adjust the amounts recognised in its financial statements, or to recognise items that were not 
previously recognised:
(a) ……
(b) the receipt of information after the reporting period indicating that an asset was impaired
at the end of the reporting period, or that the amount of a pre viously recognised
impairment loss for that asset needs to be adjusted. For example:
(i) the bankruptcy of a customer that occurs after the reporting period usually confirms
that a loss existedthe customer was credit-impaired at the end of the reporting period
on a trade receivable; andthat the entity needs to adjust the carrying amount of the
trade receivable; and
………

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
23B SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 9. An entity 
shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 11 Construction Contracts
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – LKAS 11 is superseded by SLFRS 15 w.e.f. 01 January 2018
LKAS 12 Income Taxes
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
20 SLFRSs permit or require certain assets to be carried at fair v alue or to be revalued (see, for 
example, LKAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment, LKAS 38 Intangible Assets, LKAS 3940
Investment Property and SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and 
LKAS 40 Investment Property). 
……….
21 …………
(ii) the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquireacquir ee recognised in
accordance with SLFRS 3; and
………..
29 When there are insufficient taxable temporary differences relat ing to the same taxation 
authority and the same taxable entity, the deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that:
(a) it is probable that the entity will have sufficient taxable profit relating to the same taxation
authority and the same taxable entity in the same period as the  reversal of the deductible
temporary difference (or in the periods into which a tax loss a rising from the deferred tax
asset can be carried back or forward). In evaluating whether it will have sufficient taxable
profit in future periods, an entity ignores taxable amounts arising from deductible
temporary differences that are expected to originate in future periods, because the deferred 
tax asset arising from these deductible temporary differences w ill itself require future 
taxable profit in order to be utilised; or:
(i) ………..
(ii) ……….
59 Most deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets arise where income or expense is included 
in accounting profit in one period, but is included in taxable profit (tax loss) in a different 
period. The resulting deferred tax is recognised in profit or loss. Examples are when:
(a) interest, royalty or dividend revenue is received in arrears  and is included in accounting
profit on a time apportionment basis in accordance with LKAS 18SLFRS 15 Revenue from
Contracts with Customers , LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement or SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as relevant , but is included in taxable 
profit (tax loss) on a cash basis; and
…..
98D [Deleted]
98E [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  9A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraph 
59. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 15.
98F [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 20 and deleted paragraphs 96, 97 
and 98D. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
98G [These paragraphs referThis paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and 
areis therefore not included in this edition.]
LKAS 16    Property, Plant and Equipment
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
29A –
29B
[These paragraphs refer  to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not 
included in this edition.]
68A However, an entity that, in the course of its ordinary activities, routinely sells items of property, 
plant and equipment that it has held for rental to others shall transfer such assets to inventories 
at their carrying amount when they cease to be rented and become held for sale. The proceeds 
from the sale of such assets shall be recognised as revenue in accordance with LKAS 18SLFRS 
15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. SLFRS 5 does not apply when assets that are held 
for sale in the ordinary course of business are transferred to inventories.
69 The disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment may oc cur in a variety of ways (eg 
by sale, by entering into a finance lease or by donation). In determining theThe date of disposal 
of an item, an entity applies of property, plant and equipment is the dat e the criteriarecipient 
obtains control of that item in LKAS 18accordance with the requirements for recognising 
revenue from the sale of goods. determining when a perfor mance obligation is satisfied in 
SLFRS 15. LKAS 17 applies to disposal by a sale and leaseback.
72 The amount of consideration receivable on disposal to be included in the gain or loss arising 
from the derecognition of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised initially at its 
f a i r  v a l u e .  I f  p a y m e n tdetermined in accordance with the requirements for the item is 
deferred,determining the transaction price in paragraphs 47 –72 of SLFRS 15. Subsequent 
changes to the estimated amount of the consideration received is recognised initially at the cash 
price equivalent. The difference between the nominal amount of the consideration and the 
cashincluded in the gain or loss shall be accounted for in accordance with the requirements for 
changes in the transaction price equivalent is recognised as interest revenue in accordance with 
LKAS 18 reflecting the effective yield on the receivablein SLFRS 15.
81J [These paragraphs refers to amen dments that are not yet effecti ve, and are therefore not 
included in this edition.]
[These SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers , issued in June 2014, amended
paragraphs refer to68A, 69 and 72. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies 
SLFRS 15.
81M [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
LKAS 17       Leases
No changes
LKAS 18 Revenue
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – LKAS 18 is superseded by SLFRS 15 w.e.f. 01 January 2018
LKAS 19      Employee Benefits
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
155 In recognising and measuring the surplus or deficit in anotheran other long-term 
employee benefit plan, an entity shall apply paragraphs 56 –98 and 113 –115. An entity 
shall apply paragraphs 116–119 in recognising and measuring any reimbursement right.
178 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
LKAS 20      Disclosure of Government Assistance
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
10A The benefit of a government loan at a below -market rate of interest is treated as a government 
grant. The loan shall be recognised and measured in accordance with LKAS 39 SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement .. The benefit of the below -market rate 
of interest shall be measured as the difference between the ini tial carrying value of the loan 
determined in accordance with LKAS 39SLFRS 9 and the proceeds received. The benefit is 
accounted for in accordance with this Standard. The entity shal l consider the conditions and 
obligations that have been, or must be, met when identifying the costs for which the benefit of 
the loan is intended to compensate.
47 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
[Deleted]
48 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 10A and deleted paragraphs 44 and 
47. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
3 This Standard shall be applied:1
1 See also SIC-7 Introduction of the Euro

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  11A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(a) in accounting for transaction s and balances in foreign curre ncies, except for those
derivative transactions and balan ces that are within the scope of LKAS 39 SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement;
……..
4 LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 applies to many foreign currency derivatives and, accordingly, these are 
excluded from the scope of this Standard. However, those foreign currency derivatives that are 
not within the scope of LKAS 39SLFRS 9 (eg some foreign currency derivatives that are 
embedded in other contracts) are within the scope of this Stand ard. In addition, this Standard 
applies when an entity translates amounts relating to derivativ es from its functional currency 
to its presentation currency.
5 This Standard does not apply to hedge accounting for foreign cu rrency items, including the 
hedging of a net investment in a foreign operation. LKAS 39SLFRS 9 applies to hedge 
accounting.
27 As noted in paragraphs 3(a) and 5, LKAS 39SLFRS 9 applies to hedge accounting for foreign 
currency items. The application of hedge accounting requires an  entity to account for some 
exchange differences differently from the treatment of exchange  differences required by this 
Standard. For example, LKAS 39SLFRS 9 requires that exchange differences on monetary 
items that qualify as hedging instruments in a cash flow hedge are recognised initially in other 
comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective.
52 An entity shall disclose:
(a) the amount of exchange differ ences recognised in profit or l oss except for those
arising on financial instruments measured at fair value through  profit or loss in
accordance with LKAS 39SLFRS 9; and
………
60I [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
[Deleted]
60J [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 27 and 52 and deleted 
paragraphs 60C, 60E and 60I. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 
9.
LKAS  23 Borrowing Costs
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
6 Borrowing costs may include:
(a) interest expense calculated using the effective interest method  as described in LKAS 39
Financial Instruments: Recognition and MeasurementSLFRS 9;
……..

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
29B [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that 
amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.
LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures
No changes
LKAS 26      Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans
No changes
LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
11B When a parent ceases to be an in vestment entity, or becomes an investment entity, it shall 
account for the change from the date when the change in status occurred, as follows:
(a) ……….
(b) when an entity becomes an investment entity, it shall account for an  investment in a
subsidiary at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with SLFRS 9. The difference
between the previous carrying amount of the subsidiary and its fair value at the date of the
change of status of the investor shall be recognised as a gain or loss in profit or loss. The
cumulative amount of any gain or loss fair value adjustment previously recognised in other
comprehensive income in respect of those subsidiaries shall be treated as if the investment
entity had disposed of those subsidiaries at the date of change in status.
LKAS 28     Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
14A [This paragraph refers to an amendment that is not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
18 When an investment in an associate or a joint venture is held b y, or is held indirectly through, 
an entity that is a venture capital organisation, or a mutual f und, unit trust and similar entities 
including investment-linked insurance funds, the entity may elect to measure investments in 
those associates and joint ventures that investment at fair value through profit or loss in 
accordance with SLFRS 9. An entity shall make this election separately for each associ ate or 
joint venture, at initial recognition of the associate or joint venture.
31A –
31B
[This paragraph refers– [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and 
isare therefore not included in this edition.]

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  13A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
36A Notwithstanding the requirement in paragraph 36, if an entity t hat is not itself an investment 
entity has an interest in an associate or joint venture that is an investment entity, the entity may, 
when applying the equity method, elect to retain the fair v alue measurement applied by that 
investment entity associate or joint venture to the investment entity associate’s or joint 
venture’s interests in subsidiaries. This election is made separately for each investment entity 
associate or joint venture, at the later of the date on which ( a) the investment entity associate 
or joint venture is initially recognised; (b) the associate or joint venture becomes an investment 
entity; and (c) the investment entity associate or joint venture first becomes a parent.
40 After application of the equity method, including recognising the associate’s or joint venture’s 
losses in accordance with para graph 38, the entity applies LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: 
Recognition and Measurementparagraphs 41A–41C to determine whether itthere is necessary 
to recognise any additional impairment loss with respect toobjective evidenc e that its net 
investment in the associate or joint venture is impaired.
41 The entity also applies LKAS 39 to determine whether any additional the im pairment loss is 
recognised with respect requirements in SLFRS 9 to its interestother interestsin the associate 
or joint venture that doesare in the scope of SLFRS 9 and that do not constitute part of the net 
investment and the amount of that .
41A -
41C
[These paragraphs refer to amendments th at are not yet effective, and are therefore not 
included in this edition.]
41A The net investment in an associate or joint venture is impaired  a n d  impairment l osses are 
incurred if, and only if, there is objective evidence of impair ment as a result of one or more 
events that occurred after the initial recognition of the net i nvestment (a ‘loss event’) and that 
loss event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows from the net investment 
that can be reliably estimated. It may not be possible to ident ify a single, discrete event that 
caused the impairment. Rather the combined effect of several ev ents may have caused the 
impairment. Losses expected as a result of future events, no ma tter how likely, are not 
recognised. Objective evidence that the net investment is impai red includes observable data 
that comes to the attention of the entity about the following loss events:
(a) significant financial difficulty of the associate or joint venture;
(b) a breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in payments by the associate or joint
venture;
(c) the entity, for economic or legal reasons relating to its assoc iate’s or joint venture’s
financial difficulty, granting to the associate or joint ventur e a concession that the entity 
would not otherwise consider;
(d) it becoming probable that the associate or joint venture wil l enter bankruptcy or other
financial reorganisation; or
(e) the disappearance of an active market for the net investment becaus e of financial
difficulties of the associate or joint venture.
41B The disappearance of an active market because the associate’s o r joint venture’s equity or 
financial instruments are no longer publicly traded is not evidence of impairment. A downgrade 
of an associate’s or joint venture’s credit rating or a decline in the fair value of the associate or 
joint venture, is not of itself, evidence of impairment, althou gh it may be evidence of 
impairment when considered with other available information.

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
41C In addition to the types of events in paragraph 41A, objective evidence of impairment for the 
net investment in the equity instruments of the associate or jo int venture includes information 
about significant changes with an adverse effect that have take n place in the technological, 
market, economic or legal environment in which the associate or  joint venture operates, and 
indicates that the cost of the investment in the equity instrum ent may not be recovered. A 
significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument below 
its cost is also objective evidence of impairment.
42 Because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of anthe net investment in an associate 
or a joint venture is not separately recognised, it is not test ed for impairment separately by 
applying the requirements for impairment testing goodwill in LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets.
Instead, the entire carrying amount of the investment is tested for impairment in accordance 
with LKAS 36 as a single asset, by comparing its recoverable am ount (higher of value in use 
and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount , whenever application of LKAS 
39paragraphs 41A–41C indicates that the net investment may be impaired. An impairment loss 
recognised in those circumstances is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, that forms 
part of the carrying amount of the net investment in the associate or joint venture. Accordingly, 
any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordanc e with LKAS 36 to the extent 
that the recoverable amount of the net investment subsequently increases. In determining the 
value in use of the net investment, an entity estimates:
…….
45A SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 40–42 and added paragraphs 41A–
41C. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
45E Annual Improvements to SLFRSs - 2016, issued in January 2017, amended paragraphs 18 and 
36A. An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier ap plication is permitted. If an 
entity applies those amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact.
45F -
45K
[These paragraphs refer to amendments that  are not yet effective, and are therefore not 
included in this edition.]
LKAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies
No changes
LKAS 32    Financial Instruments: Presentation
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
3 The principles in this Standard complement the principles for r ecognising and measuring 
financial assets and financial liabilities in L K A S  3 9 S L F R S  9Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement , and for disclosing information about them in SLFRS 7 
Financial Instruments: Disclosures.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  15A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
4 This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments except:
(a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in
accordance with SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate
Financial Statements or LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures .
However, in s ome cases, SLFRS 10, LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an
entity to account for an interes t in a subsidiary, associate or  j o i n t  v e n t u r e  u s i n g
LKAS 39SLFRS 9 ; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements of this
Standard. Entities shall also apply this Standard to all derivatives linked to interests
in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures.
(b) employers’ rights and obligations under employee benefit plans, to which LKAS 19
Employee Benefits applies.
(c) [deleted]
(d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts . However, this
Standard applies to derivatives that are embedded in insurance contracts if LKAS
39SLFRS 9 requires the entity to account for them separately. Moreover, a n issuer
shall apply this Standard to financial guarantee contracts if the issuer applies LKAS
39SLFRS 9 in recognising and measuring the contracts, but shall apply SLFRS 4 if
the issuer elects, in accordance with paragraph 4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply SLFRS 4
in recognising and measuring them.
(e) financial instruments that are within the scope of SLFRS 4 b ecause they contain a
discretionary participation feature. The issuer of these instru ments is exempt from
applying to these features paragraphs 15 –32 and AG25 –AG35 of this Standard
regarding the d istinction between financial liabilities and equity instruments .
However, these instruments are subject to all other requirement s of this Standard.
Furthermore, this Standard applies to derivatives that are embe dded in these
instruments (see LKAS 39SLFRS 9).
8 This Standard shall be applied to those contracts to buy or sel l a non-financial item that 
can be settled net in cash or another financial instrument, or by exchanging financial 
instruments, as if the contracts were financial instruments, wi th the exception of 
contracts that were entered into and continue to be held for the purpose of the receipt or 
delivery of a non -financial item in accordance with the entity’s expected purchas e, sale 
or usage requirements. However, this Standard shall be applied to those contracts that 
an entity designates as measured at fair value through profit o r loss in accordance with 
paragraph 2.5 of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
12 The following terms are defined in Appendix A of SLFRS 9 or paragraph 9 of LKAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and are used in this Standard with the 
meaning specified in LKAS 39. and SLFRS 9. 
●• amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
● available-for-sale financial assets
●• derecognition
●• derivative
●• effective interest method
●• financial guarantee contract
• financial asset or financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
● financial guarantee contract
●• firm commitment
●• forecast transaction
●• hedge effectiveness
●• hedged item

<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
●• hedging instrument
●• held-to-maturity investments for trading
● loans and receivables
●• regular way purchase or sale
●• transaction costs.
23 With the exception of the circumstances described in paragraphs  16A and 16B or paragraphs 
16C and 16D, a contract that contains an obligation for an enti ty to purchase its own equity 
instruments for cash or another financial asset gives rise to a  financial liability for the present 
value of the redemption amount (for example, for the present va lue of the forward repurchase 
price, option exercise price or oth er redemption amount). This is the case even if the contract 
itself is an equity instrument. One exam ple is an entity’s obligation under a forward contract 
to purchase its own equity instruments for cash. The financial liability is recognised initially at 
the present value of the redemption amount, and is reclassified from equity. Subsequently, the 
financial liability is measured in accordance with LKAS 39SLFRS 9 . If the contract expires 
without delivery, the carrying amount of the financial liabilit y is reclassified to equity. An 
entity’s contractual obligation to purchase its own equity inst ruments gives rise to a financial 
liability for the present value of the redemption amount even i f the obligation to purchase is 
conditional on the counterparty exercising a right to redeem (eg a written put option that gives 
the counterparty the right to sell an entit y’s own equity instruments to the entity for a fixed 
price).
31 LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 deals with the measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities. 
………
33A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
42 ……..
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not  qualify for derecognition, 
the entity shall not offset the transferred asset and the assoc iated liability (see LKAS 
39SLFRS 9, paragraph 363.2.22).
97P [These paragraphs refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
[Deleted
97Q [These paragraphs refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraph 
AG21. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 15.
97R [These paragraphs refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs refer3, 4, 8, 12, 23, 31, 42, 96C, 
AG2 and AG30 and deleted paragraphs 97F, 97H and 97P. An entity  shall apply those 
amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
97S [This paragrap h refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and areis therefore not
included in this edition.]

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  17A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
AG2 The Standard does not deal with the recognition or measurement of financial instruments. 
Requirements about the recognition and measurement of financial  assets and financial 
liabilities are set out in LKAS 39SLFRS 9.
AG21 Except as required by SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers , a contract that 
involves the receipt or delivery of physical assets does not give rise to a financial asset of one 
party and a financial liability of the other party unless any c orresponding payment is deferred 
past the date on which the physical assets are transferred. Suc h is the case with the purchase 
or sale of goods on trade credit.
AG30 Paragraph 28 applies only to issuers of non -derivative compound financial instruments. 
Paragraph 28 does not deal with compound financial instruments f rom the perspective of 
holders. LKAS 39SLFRS 9 deals with the separation classification and measurement of 
embedded derivatives from the perspective of holders of financial assets that are compound 
financial instruments that contain debt and equity featuresfrom the holder’s perspective.
LKAS 33    Earnings per Share
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
34 After the potential ordinary shares are converted into ordinary  shares, the items identified in 
paragraph 33(a)–(c) no longer arise. Instead, the new ordinary shares are entitled to participate 
in profit or loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent entity. Therefore, profit or 
loss attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent enti ty calculated in accordance with 
paragraph 12 is adjusted for the items identified in paragraph 33(a)–(c) and any related taxes. 
The expenses associated with potential ordinary shares include transaction costs and discounts 
accounted for in accordance with the effective interest method (see paragraph 9 of LKAS 39 
Financial Instruments: Recognition and MeasurementSLFRS 9).
54 The number of ordinary shares contingently issuable may depend on the future market price of 
the ordinary shares. In that case, if the effect is dilutive, the calculation of diluted earnings per 
share is based on the number of ordinary shares that would be issued if the market price at the 
end of the reporting period were the market price at the end of the contingency period. If the 
condition is based on an average of market prices over a period of time that extends beyond the 
end of the reporting period, the average for the period of time  that has lapsed is used. Because 
the market price may change in a future period, the calculation of basic earnings per share does 
not include such contingently issuable ordinary shares until th e end of the contingency period 
because not all necessary conditions have been satisfied.

<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
64 If the number of ordinary or potential ordinary shares outstand ing increases as a result 
of a capitalisation, bonus issue or share split, or decreases a s a result of a reverse share 
split, the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for all periods presented shall 
be adjusted retrospectively. If these changes occur after the r eporting period but before 
the financial statements are authorised for issue, the per share calculations for those and 
any prior period financial statements presented shall be based on t h e  n e w n um b e r of  
shares. The fact that per share calculations reflect such chang es in the number of shares 
shall be disclosed. In addition, basic and diluted earnings per  share of all periodperiods
presented shall be adjusted for the effects of errors and adjus tments resulting from 
changes in accounting policies accounted for retrospectively.
74E [This SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph refers 
to amendments34. An entity shall apply that are not yet effective, amendment when it applies 
SLFRS 9.
LKAS 34    Interim Financial Reporting
LKAS 36 Impairment of Assets
Para Ref Paragraph
2 This Standard shall be applied in accounting for the impairment  of all assets, other 
than:
(a) inventories (see LKAS 2 Inventories);
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
15B The following is a list of events and transactions for which di sclosures would be required if 
they are significant: the list is not exhaustive.
(a) …
(b) recognition of a loss from the impairment of financial asset s, property, plant and
equipment, intangible assets, assets arising from contracts with customers, or other assets,
and the reversal of such an impairment loss;
…….
16A In addition to disclosing signif icant events and transactions i n accordance with 
paragraphs 15–15C, an entity shall include the following information, in the notes to its 
interim financial statements or elsewhere in the interim financial report. 
……..
(l) the disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers required by
paragraphs 114–115 of SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
55 SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraphs 
15B and 16A. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  19A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(b) contract assets and assets arising from construction contrac ts (see LKAS 11
Construction costs to obtain or fulfil a contract that are recognised in acc ordance
with SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts); with Customers;
(c) deferred tax assets (see LKAS 12 Income Taxes);
(d) assets arising from employee benefits (see LKAS 19 Employee Benefits);
(e) financial assets that are within the scope of LKAS 39SLFRS 9 Financial
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement;
………..
4 This Standard applies to financial assets classified as:
………
For impairment of other financial assets, refer to LKAS 39SLFRS 9.
5 This Standard does not apply to financial assets within the sco pe of LKAS 39SLFRS 9,
investment property measured at fair value within the scope of LKAS 40, or biological assets 
related to agricultural activity measured at fair value less co sts to sell within the scope of 
LKAS 41. ……..
140L [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contra cts with Customers , issued in June 2014, amended 
paragraph 2. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 15.
140M [These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs refer2, 4 and 5 and deleted 
paragraphs 140F, 140G and 140K. An entity shall apply those ame ndments when it applies 
SLFRS 9.
140N [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and are is therefore not
included in this edition.]
Appendix 
B
Amendment to LKAS 16
[Amendment not applicable to requirements]
Appendix 
C
Appendix B is renamed as Appendix C
LKAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
2 This Standard does not apply to financial instruments (including guarantees) that are within the 
scope of LKAS 39SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement..

<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
5 When another Standard deals with a specific type of provision, c ontingent liability or 
contingent asset, an entity applies that Standard instead of th is Standard. For example, some 
types of provisions are addressed in Standards on:
(a) construction contracts (see LKAS 11 Construction Contracts);
(a) [deleted]
(b) income taxes (see LKAS 12 Income Taxes);
(c) leases (see LKAS 17 Leases). However, as LKAS 17 contains no specific
requirements to deal with operating leases that have become one rous, this Standard
applies to such cases;
(d) employee benefits (see LKAS 19 Employee Benefits); and
(e) insurance contracts (see SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts ). However, this Standard
applies to provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets of an insurer, other
than those a rising from its contractual obligations and rights under insura nce
contracts within the scope of SLFRS 4; and
(f) contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combinati on (see SLFRS 3
Business Combinations).); and
(g) revenue from contracts with customers (see SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers). However, as SLFRS 15 contains no specific requirements to ad dress 
contracts with customers that are, or have become, onerous, thi s Standard applies to 
such cases.
6 Some amounts treated as provisions may relate to the recognitio n of revenue, for example 
where an entity gives guarantees in exchange for a fee. This St andard does not address the 
recognition of revenue. LKAS 18 Revenue identifies the circumstances in which revenue is 
recognised and provides practical guidance on the application o f the recognition criteria. This 
Standard does not change the requirements of LKAS 18.
[Deleted]
100 [These paragraphs refer to amendments that  are not yet effective, and are therefore not 
included in this edition]
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraph 
5 and deleted paragraph 6. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.
101 [These paragraphs refer to amendments that  are not yet effective, and are therefore not 
included in this edition]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 2 and deleted paragraphs 97 and 
98. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
102 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
103 [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  21A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
LKAS 38 Intangible Assets
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
3 If another Standard prescribes t he accounting for a specific ty pe of intangible asset, an entity 
applies that Standard instead of this Standard. For example, this Standard does not apply to:
(a) intangible assets held by an entity for sale in the ordinary course of bus iness (see LKAS
2 Inventories and LKAS 11 Construction Contracts).
………
(i) assets arising from contracts with customers that are recogn ised in accordance with
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
98 A variety of amortisation methods can be used to allocate the d epreciable amount of an asset 
on a systematic basis over its useful life. These methods inclu de the straight-line method, the 
diminishing balance method and the unitunits of production method. The method used is 
selected on the basis of the expected pattern of consumption of  the expected future economic 
benefits embodied in the asset and is applied consistently from  period to period, unless there 
is a change in the expected pattern of consumption of those future economic benefits.
114 The disposal of an intangible asset may occur in a variety of ways (eg by sale, by entering into 
a finance lease, or by donation). In determining theThe date of disposal of such an intangible 
asset, an entity applies is the date that the criteriarecipient obtains control of that asset in LKAS 
18 Revenueaccordance with the requirements for recognising revenue from the sale of 
goods.determining when a performance obligation is satisfied in SLFRS 15. LKAS 17 applies 
to disposal by a sale and leaseback.
116 The amount of consideration receivable on disposal to be included in the gain or loss arising 
from the derecognition of an intangible asset is recognised initially at its fair value. If 
paymentdetermined in accordance with the requirements for the intangible asset is 
deferred,determining the transaction price in paragraphs 47 –72 of SLFRS 15. Subsequent 
changes to the estimated amount of the consideration received is recognised initially at the 
cash price equivalent. The difference between the nominal amount of the consideration and the 
cashincluded in the gain or loss shall be accounted for in accordance with the requirements for 
changes in the transaction price equivalent is recognised as interest revenue in accordance with 
LKAS 18 reflecting the effective yield on the receivablein SLFRS 15.
122 (d) (b) a description, the carrying amount and remaining amortisation p eriod of any
individual intangible asset that is material to the entity’s financial statements.
………
130K [These paragraphs refer to amendments that ar e not yet effective, and are therefore not 
included in this edition.]
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraphs 
3, 114 and 116. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.
130L [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and areis therefore not 
included in this edition.]
130M [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and areis therefore not 
included in this edition.]

<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
LKAS  39        Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
1 Objective
[Deleted]
2 Scope
This Standard shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments 
exceptwithin the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments if, and to the extent that:
(a) SLFRS 9 permits the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard to be applied;
and
(b) the financial instrument is part of a hedging relationship that qua lifies for hedge
accounting in accordance with this Standard.
2A - 7 [Deleted]
8 The terms defined in LKAS 32 are used in this Standard with the  meanings specified in 
paragraph 11 of LKAS 32. LKAS 32 defines the following terms:The terms defined in SLFRS 
13, SLFRS 9 and LKAS 32 are used in this Standard with the meanings specified in Appendix 
A of SLFRS 13, Appendix A of SLFRS 9 and paragraph 11 of LKAS 32. SLFRS 13, SLFRS 
9 and LKAS 32 define the following terms:
• amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
● • derecognition
• derivative
• effective interest method
• effective interest rate
• equity instrument
• fair value
• financial asset
• financial instrument
• financial liability
● equity instrument
and provide guidance on applying those definitions.
9 The following terms are used in this Standard with the meanings specified:
Definition of a derivative
……
Definitions of four categories of financial instruments
…….
Definition of a financial guarantee contract
……..

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  23A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
Definitions relating to recognition and measurement
…….
Definitions relating to hedge accounting
A firm commitment is a binding agreement for the exchange of a specified quantity  o f  
resources at a specified price on a specified future date or dates. 
A forecast transaction is an uncommitted but anticipated future transaction. 
A hedging instrument is a designated derivative or (for a hedge of the risk of chang es in 
foreign currency exchange rates onl y) a designated non- derivative financial asset or non-
derivative financial liability whose fair value or cash flows a re expected to offset changes in 
the fair value or cash flows of a designated hedged item (parag raphs 72–77 and Appendix A 
paragraphs AG94–AG97 elaborate on the definition of a hedging instrument). 
A hedged item is an asset, liability, firm commitment, highly probable forecast transaction or 
net investment in a foreign operation that (a) exposes the entity to risk of changes in fair value 
or future cash flows and (b) is designated as being hedged (par agraphs 78–84 and Appendix 
A paragraphs AG98–AG101 elaborate on the definition of hedged items). 
Hedge effectiveness is the degree to which changes in the fair value or cash flows of the 
hedged item that are attributable to a hedged risk are offset b y changes in the fair value or 
cash flows of the hedging instrument (see Appendix A paragraphs AG105–AG113A).
10 - 70[Deleted]
71 Hedging
If an entity applies SLFRS 9 and has not chosen as its accounti ng policy to continue to 
apply the hedge accounting requirements of this Standard (see p aragraph 7.2.21 of 
SLFRS 9), it shall apply the hedge accounting requirements in C hapter 6 of SLFRS 9. 
However, for a fair value hedge of the interest rate exposure o f a portion of a portfolio 
of financial assets or financial liabilities, an entity may, in  accordance with paragraph 
6.1.3 of SLFRS 9, apply the hedge accounting requirements in th is Standard instead of 
those in SLFRS 9. In that case the entity must also apply the s pecific requirements for 
fair value hedge accounting for a portfolio hedge of interest r ate risk (see paragraphs 
81A, 89A and AG114–AG132).
……
72 - 77Hedging instruments
…..
Hedged items
78 ….

<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
79 Unlike loans and receivables, a held -to-maturity investment cannot be a hedged item with 
respect to interest-rate risk or prepayment risk because designation of an investme nt as held 
to maturity requires an intention to hold the investment until maturity without regard to 
changes in the fair value or cash flows of such an investment attributable to changes in interest 
rates. However, a held-to-maturity investment can be a hedged item with respect to risks from 
changes in foreign currency exchange rates and credit risk.
[Deleted]
80 - 84…..
Hedge accounting
85  -
102
…...
Effective Date
103 –
103S
…….
103T SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraphs 
2, 9, 43, 47, 55, AG2, AG4 and AG48 and added paragraphs 2A, 44 A ,  55A  a n d A G 8A–
AG8C. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.
103U SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2, 8, 9 , 71, 88 –90, 96, AG95, 
AG114, AG118 and the headings a bove AG133 and deleted paragraph s 1, 4 –7, 10–70, 79, 
103B, 103D, 103F, 103H–103J, 103L–103P, 103S, 105–107A, 108E–108F, AG1–AG93 and 
AG96. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
104 –
108D
……
108E -
108F
[Deleted]
LKAS 40 Investment Property
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
3 Among other things, this Standard applies to the measurement in  a lessee’s financial 
statements of investment property interests held under a lease accounted for as a finance lease 
and to the measurement in a lessor’s financial statements of in vestment property provided to 
a lessee under an operating lease. This Standard does not deal with matters covered in LKAS 
17 Leases, including:
(a) classification of leases as finance leases or operating leases;
(b) recognition of lease income from investment property (see also LKAS 18SLFRS 15
Revenue from Contracts with Customers);
……..
9 The following are examples of items that are not investment property and are therefore outside 
the scope of this Standard:

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  25A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(a) property intended for sale in the ordinary course of business or in the process of
construction or development for such sale (see LKAS 2 Inventories) ,  f o r  e x a m p l e ,
property acquired exclusively with a view to subsequent disposa l in the near future or
for development and resale.
(b) property being constructed or developed on behalf of third p arties (see LKAS 11
Construction Contracts).
[deleted]
57 Transfers
Transfers An entity shall transfer a property to, or from, investment pro perty shall be 
made when, and only when, there is a change in use, evidenced by: . A change in use 
occurs when the property meets, or ceases to meet, the definition of investment property 
and there is evidence of the change in use. In isolation, a cha nge in management’s 
intentions for the use of a property does not provide evidence o f  a  c h a n g e  i n  u s e .  
Examples of evidence of a change in use include: 
(a) commencement of owner-occupation, or of development with a view to owner-
occupation, for a transfer from investment property to owner-occupied property;
(b) commencement of development with a view to sale, for a transfer from investment
property to inventories;
(c) end of owner-occupation, for a transfer from owner- occupied property to
investment property; orand
(d) commencement inceptionof an operating lease to another party, for a transfer from
inventories to investment property.
(e) [deleted]
58 Paragraph 57(b) requires an entity to transfer a property from investment property to 
inventories when, and only when, there is a change in use, evidenced by commencement of 
development with a view to sale When an entity decides to dispose of an investment property 
without development, it continues to treat the property as an i nvestment property until it is 
derecognised (eliminated from the statement of financial position) and does not treatreclassify
it as inventory. Similarly, if an entity begins to redevelop an  existing investment property for 
continued future use as investment property, the property remains an investment property and 
is not reclassified as owner-occupied property during the redevelopment.
67 The disposal of an investment property may be achieved by sale or by entering into a finance 
lease. In determining theThe date of disposal for investment property, an entity applies is the 
date the criteriarecipient obtains control of the investment propert y in LKAS 18accordance 
with the requirements for recognising revenue from the sale of goods and considers the related 
guidancedetermining when a performance obligation is satisfied in the illustrative examples 
accompanying LKAS 18SLFRS 15. LKAS 17 applies to a disposal effected by entering into 
a finance lease and to a sale and leaseback.

<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
70 The amount of consideration receivable on disposalto be included in  the gain or loss arising 
from the derecognition of an investment property is recognised initially at fair value. In 
particular, if payment determined in accordance with the requirements for an investment 
property is deferred, determining the transaction price in paragraphs 47 –72 of SLFRS 15. 
Subsequent changes to the estimated amount of the consideration received is recognised 
initially at the cash price equivalent. The difference between the nominal amount of the 
consideration and the cash included in the gain or loss shall be accounted for in accordance 
with the requirements for changes in the transaction price equivalent is recognised as interest 
revenue in accordance with LKAS 18 using the effective interest methodin SLFRS 15.
Transfers of investment property
84C Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to LKAS 40), issued in January 2017,
amended paragraphs 57–58. An entity shall apply those amendments to changes in use th at 
occur on or after the beginning of the annual reporting period in which the entity first applies 
the amendments (the date of initial application). At the date o f initial application, an entity 
shall reassess the classification of property held at that date  and, if applicable, reclassify 
property applying paragraphs 7–14 to reflect the conditions that exist at that date.
84D Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph 84C, an entity is permitted to apply the 
amendments to paragraphs 57–58 retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8 if, and only if, 
that is possible without the use of hindsight.
84E If, in accordance with paragraph  84C, an entity reclassifies pr operty at the date of initial 
application, the entity shall:
(a) account for the reclassification applying the requirements in paragraphs 59–64. In applying
paragraphs 59–64, an entity shall: 
(i) read any reference to the date of change in use as the date of initial application; 
and
(ii) recognise any amount that, in accordance with paragraphs 59 –64, would have 
been recognised in profit or loss as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained 
earnings at the date of initial application.
(b) d i s c l o s e  t h e  a m o u n t sreclassified to, or from, investment property in accordance wit h
paragraph 84C. The entity shall disclose those amounts reclassi fied as part of the 
reconciliation of the carrying amount of investment property at  the beginning and end of 
the period as required by paragraphs 76 and 79.
85E SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June2014, amended paragraphs 
3(b), 9, 67 and 70. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.
85F [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and areis therefore not
included in this edition.]
85G Transfers of Investment Property (Amendments to LKAS 40), issued in January 2017,
amended paragraphs 57 –58 and added paragraphs 84C –84E. An entity shal l apply those 
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2 018. Earlier application is 
permitted. If an entity applies those amendments for an earlier  period, it shall disclose that 
fact.
85H [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  27A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
LKAS 41 Agriculture
No changes
SLFRS 1       First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRSs)
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
29 An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised financial asset or financial liability 
as a financial asset or financial liabilitymeasured at fair value through profit or l oss or a 
financial asset as available for sale in accordance with paragraph D19D19A. The entity shall 
disclose the fair value of financial assets or financial liabilitiesso designated into each 
category at the date of designation and their classification and carrying amount in the previous 
financial statements.
29A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in 
this edition.]
An entity is permitted to designate a previously recognised fin ancial liability as a financial 
liability at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph D19. The entity shall 
disclose the fair value of financial liabilities so designated at the date of designation and their 
classification and carrying amount in the previous financial statements.
39U [Deleted]
39X SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June2014, amended paragraph 
D1, deleted paragraph D24 and its related heading and added paragraphs D34–D35 and their 
related heading. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 15.
39Y SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 29, B1 –
B6, D1, D14, D15, D19 and D20, deleted paragraphs 39B, 39G and 39U and added 
paragraphs 29A, B8 –B8G, B9, D19A –D19C, D33, E1 and E2. An entity shall apply those 
amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
39AC IFRIC 22 Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration added paragraph D36 
and amended paragraph D1. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies IFRIC 22.
39AD Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2016, issued in January 2017, amended paragraphs 39L 
and 39T and deleted paragraphs 39D, 39F, 39AA and E3–E7. An entity shall apply those 
amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
39AE [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
39AF [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]

<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
SLFRS 1 Balance part to be included.
SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
6 This SLFRS does not apply to share-based payment transactions in which the entity receives 
or acquires goods or services under a contract within the scope  of paragraphs 8–10 of LKAS 
32 Financial Instrume nts: Presentation or paragraphs 5 –2.4–2.7 of LKAS 39 SLFRS 9
Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement.
19 A grant of equity instruments might be conditional upon satisfy ing specified vesting 
conditions. For example, a grant of shares or share options to an employee is typically 
conditional on the employee remaining in the entity’s employ fo r a specified period of time. 
There might be performance conditions that must be satisfied, s uch as the entity achieving a 
specified growth in profit or a specified increa se in the entity’s share price. Vesting 
conditions, other than market conditions, shall not be taken into account when estimating the 
fair value of the shares or share options at the measurement date. Instead, vesting conditions,
other than market conditio ns, shall be taken into account by adjusting the number of equity 
instruments included in the measurement of the transaction amou nt so that, ultimately, the 
amount recognised for goods or services received as consideration for the equity instruments 
granted shall be based on the number of equity instruments that  eventually vest. Hence, on a 
cumulative basis, no amount is recognised for goods or services  received if the equity 
instruments granted do not vest because of failure to satisfy a vesting condition,e gother than 
a market condition, for example, the counterparty fails to complete a specified service period, 
or a performance condition is not satisfied, subject to the requirements of paragraph 21.
30 For cash-settled share-based payment transactions, the entity shall measure the goods 
or services acquired and the liability incurred at the fair val ue of the liability ., subject 
to the requirements of paragraphs 31 –33D. Until the liability is settled, the entity shall 
remeasure the fair value of the liability at the end of each re porting period and at the 
date of settlement, with any changes in fair value recognised i n profit or loss for the 
period.
31 For example, an entity might gr ant share appreciation rights to  employees as part of their 
remuneration package, whereby the employees will become entitled to a future cash payment 
(rather than an equity instrument), based on the increase in th e entity’s s hare price from a 
specified level over a specified period of time. OrAlternatively, an entity might grant to its 
employees a right to receive a future cash payment by granting to them a right to shares 
(including shares to be issued upon the exercise of share optio ns) that are redeemable, either 
mandatorily ( egfor example, upon cessation of employment) or at the employee’s option .
These arrangements are examples of cash -settled share-based payment transactions. Share 
appreciation rights are used to illustra te some of the requirements in paragraphs 32 –33D; 
however, the requirements in those paragraphs apply to all cash-settled share-based payment 
transactions.
33 The liability shall be measured, initially and at the end of ea ch reporting period until settled, 
at the fair value of the share appreciation rights, by applying an option pricing model, taking 
into account the terms and conditions on which the share apprec iation rights were granted, 
and the extent to which the employees have rendered service to date —subject to the 
requirements of paragraphs 33A –33D. An entity might modify the terms and conditions on 
which a cash-settled share-based payment is granted. Guidance for a modification of a share-

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  29A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
based payment transaction that changes its classification from cash-settled to equity-settled 
is given in paragraphs B44A–B44C in Appendix B.
33A –
33 H
[These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not 
included in this edition.]
Treatment of vesting and non-vesting conditions
33A A cash -settled share- based payment transaction might be conditional upon satisfying 
specified vesting conditions. There might be performance condit ions that must be satisfied, 
such as the entity achieving a specified growth in profit or a specified increase in the entity’s 
share price. Vesting conditions, other than market conditions, shall not be taken into account 
when estimating the fair value of the cash -settled share-based payment at the measurement 
date. Instead, vesting conditions, other than market conditions, shall be taken into account by 
adjusting the number of awards the measurement of the liability arising from the transaction.
33B To apply the requirements in paragraph 33A, the entity shall re cognise an amount for the 
goods or services received during the vesting period. That amount shall be based on the best 
available estimate of the number of awards that are expected to  vest. The entity shall revise 
that estimate, if necessary, if subsequent information indicates that the number of awards that 
are expected to vest differs from previous estimates. On the vesting date, the entity shall revise 
the estimate to equal the number of awards that ultimately vested.
33C Market conditions, such as a target share price upon which vest ing (or exercisability) is 
conditioned, as well as non -vesting conditions, shall be taken into account when estimating  
the fair value of the cash-settled share-based payment granted and when remeasuring the fair 
value at the end of each reporting period and at the date of settlement.
33D As a result of applying paragraphs 30–33C, the cumulative amount ultimately recognised for 
goods or services received as consideration for the cash-settled share-based payment is equal 
to the cash that is paid.
33E Share-based payment transactions with a net settlement feature for withholding tax 
obligations
Tax laws or regulations may oblige an entity to withhold an amo unt for an employee’s tax 
obligation associated with a share-based payment and transfer that amount, normally in cash, 
to the tax authority on the employee’s behalf. To fulfil this obligation, the terms of the share-
based payment arrangement may permit or require the entity to withhold the number of equity 
instruments equal to the monetary value of the employee’s tax obligation from the total 
number of equity instruments that otherwise would have been iss ued to the employee upon 
exercise (or vesting) of the share -based payment (ie the share- based payment arrangement 
has a ‘net settlement feature’).
33F As an exception to the requirements in paragraph 34, the transa ction described in paragraph 
33E shall be classified in its entirety as an equity -settled share-based payment transaction if 
it would have been so classified in the absence of the net settlement feature.
33G The entity applies paragraph 29 of this Standard to account for  the withholding of shares to 
fund the payment to the tax authority in respect of the employe e's tax obligation associated 
with the share -based payment. Therefore, the payment made shall be accounted for as a 
deduction from equity for the shares withheld, except to the ex tent that the payment exceeds 
the fair value at the net settlement date of the equity instruments withheld.
33H The exception in paragraph 33F does not apply to:

<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(a) a share-based payment arrangement with a net settlement feature for whi ch there is no
obligation on the entity under tax laws or regulations to withh old an amount for an 
employee’s tax obligation associated with that share-based payment; or
(b) any equity instruments that the entity withholds in excess of the e mployee’s tax
obligation associated with the share-based payment (ie the entity withheld an amount of 
shares that exceeds the monetary value of the employee’s tax ob ligation). Such excess 
shares withheld shall be accounted for as a cash-settled share- based payment when this 
amount is paid in cash (or other assets) to the employee.
52 If the information required to be disclosed by this SLFRSStandard does not satisfy the 
principles in paragraphs 44, 46 and 50, the entity shall disclose such additional information 
as is necessary to satisfy them. F o r  e x a m p l e ,  i f  a n  e n t i t y  h a s  c l a s s i f i e d  a n y  s h a r e -based 
payment transactions as equity -settled in accordance with paragraph 33F, the entity shall 
disclose an estimate of the amount that it expects to transfer to the tax authority to settle the 
employee’s tax obligation when it is necessary to inform users about the future cash flow 
effects associated with the share-based payment arrangement.
59A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
An entity shall apply the amendments in paragraphs 30–31, 33–33H and B44A–B44C as set 
out below. Prior periods shall not be restated. 
(a) The amendments in paragraphs B44A–B44C apply only to modifications that occur on
or after the date that an entity first applies the amendments.
(b) The amendments in paragraphs 30 –3 1  a n d  3 3–3 3 D  a p p l y  t o  s h a r e -based payment
transactions that are unvested at the date that an entity first applies the amendments and 
to share-based payment transactions with a grant date on or after the da te that an entity 
first applies the amendments. For unvested share- based payment transactions granted 
prior to the date that an entity first applies the amendments, an entity sha ll remeasure 
the liability at that date and recognise the effect of the reme asurement in opening 
retained earnings (or other component of equity, as appropriate) of the reporting period 
in which the amendments are first applied.
(c) The amendments in paragraphs 33E–33H and the amendment to paragraph 52 apply to
share-based payment transactions that are unvested (or vested but une xercised), at the 
date that an entity first applies the amendments and to share-based payment transactions 
with a grant date on or after the date that an entity first app lies the amendments. For 
unvested (or vested but unexercised) share-based payment transactions (or components 
thereof) that were previously classified as cash-settled share-based payments but now 
are classified as equity- settled in accordance with the amendments, an entity shall 
reclassify the carrying value of the share- based payment liability to equity at the date 
that it first applies the amendments.
59B [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
Notwithstanding the requirements in paragraph 59A, an entity may apply the amendments in 
paragraph 63D retrospectively, subject to the trans itional provisions in paragraphs 53 –59 of 
this Standard, in accordance with LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting 
Estimates and Errors if and only if it is possible without hindsight. If an entity e lects 
retrospective application, it must do so for all of the amendments made by Classification and 
Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (Amendments to SLFRS 2).

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  31A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
63C [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 6. An entity shall apply that 
amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.
63D [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions (Amendments to 
SLFRS 2), issued in June 2016, amended paragraphs 19, 30 –31, 33, 52 and 63 and added 
paragraphs 33A–33H, 59A–59B, 63D and B44A–B44C and their related headings. An entity 
shall apply those amendments for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Earlier 
application is permitted. If an entity applies the amendments f or an earlier period, it shall 
disclose that fact.
Accounting for a modification of a share -based payment transaction that changes its 
classification from cash-settled to equity-settled
B44A If the terms and conditions of a cash -settled share-based payment transaction are modified 
with the result that it becomes an equity -settled share- based payment transaction, the 
transaction is accounted for as such from the date of the modification. Specifically:
(a) The equity-settled share- based payment transaction is measured by reference to the fair
value of the equity instruments granted at the modification date. The equity-settled share-
based payment transaction is recognised in equity on the modifi cation date to the extent 
to which goods or services have been received.
(b) The liability for the cash-settled share- based payment transaction as at the modification
date is derecognised on that date.
(c) Any difference between the carrying amount of the liability derecognised and the amount
of equity recognised on the modification date is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
B44B If, as a result of the modification, the vesting period is extended or shortened, the application 
of the requirements in paragraph B44A reflect the modified vesting period. The requirements 
in paragraph B44A apply even if the modification occurs after the vesting period.
B44C A cash -settled share-based payment transaction may be cancelled or settled (other than a 
transaction cancelled by forfeiture when the vesting conditions  are not satisfied). If equity 
instruments are granted and, on that grant date, the entity identifies them as a replacement for 
the cancelled cash-settled share-based payment, the entity shall apply paragraphs B44A and 
B44B.
SLFRS 3       Business Combinations
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
10 Recognising and measuring the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and 
any non-controlling interest in the acquireacquiree
16 In some situations, SLFRSs provide for different accounting dep ending on how an entity 
classifies or designates a particular asset or liability. Examp les of classifications or 
designations that the acquirer shall make on the basis of the pertinent conditions as they exist 
at the acquisition date include but are not limited to:

<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(a) classification of particular financial assets and liabilities a s a financial asset or
liabilitymeasured at fair value through profit or loss or at amortised cost, or as a financial
asset available for sale or held to maturity, measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income in accordance with LKAS 39SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement;
(b) designation of a derivative instrument as a hedging instrument in accordance with LKAS
39SLFRS 9; and
(c) assessment of whether an embedded derivative should be separated  f r o m  t h e ahost
contract in accordance with LKAS 39SLFRS 9 (which is a matter of ‘classification’ as
this SLFRS uses that term).
31A [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effect, and is therefore not included in 
this edition.]
42 In a business combination achieved in stages, the acquirer shall remeasure its previously held 
equity interest in the acquiree at its acquisition-date fair value and recognise the resulting gain 
or loss, if any, in profit or loss . or other comprehensive income, as appropriate. In prior 
reporting periods, the acquirer may have recognised changes in the value of its equity interest 
in the acquiree in other comprehensive income (for example, because the investment was 
classified as available for sale).. If so, the amount that was recognised in other comprehensive 
income shall be recognised on the same basis as would be required if the acquirer had disposed 
directly of the previously held equity interest.
53 Acquisition-related costs are costs the acquirer incurs to effect a business combination. Those 
costs include finder’s fees; advisory, legal, accounting, valua tion and other professional or 
consulting fees; general administrative costs, including the co sts of maintaining an internal 
acquisitions department; and costs of registering and issuing d ebt and equity securities. The 
acquirer shall account for acquisition -related costs as expenses in the periods in which the 
costs are incurred and the services are received, with one exception. The costs to issue debt or 
equity securities shall be recognised in accordance with LKAS 32 and LKAS 39.SLFRS 9.
56 Contingent liabilities
After initial recognition and until the liability is settled, cancelled or expires, the acquirer shall 
measure a contingent liability recognised in a business combination at the higher of:
(a) the amount that would be recognised in accordance with LKAS 37; and
(b) the amount initially recognised less, if appropriate, the cumul ative amortizationamount
of income recognised in accordance with LKAS 18the principles of SLFRS 15 Revenue
from Contracts with Customers.
This requirement does not apply to contracts accounted for in accordance with LKAS 
39SLFRS 9.
58 …
(b) Other contingent consideration that:
(i) is within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair value at each reporting date
and changes in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss in accordance with that
SLFRS 9.
(ii) is not within the scope of SLFRS 9 shall be measured at fair va lue at each reporting
date and changes in fair value shall be recognised in profit or loss.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  33A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
64K [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, issued in June 2014, amended paragraph 
56. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 15.
64L [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 16, 42, 53, 56, 58 and B41 and 
deleted paragraphs 64A, 64D and 64H. An entity shall apply thos e amendments when it 
applies SLFRS 9.
64M [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]
64N [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effect, and is therefore not included in 
this edition.]
Appendix A
contingent consideration
Usually, an obligation of the 
acquirer to transfer additional assets or equity interests to the 
former owners of an acquireacquiree as part of the exchange for control of the acquiree if 
specified future events occur or conditions are met. However, contingent consideration also 
may give the acquirer the right to the return of previously transferred consideration if specified 
conditions are met.
B19 A reverse acquisition occurs when the entity that issues securi ties (the legal acquirer) is 
identified as the acquiree for accounting purposes on the basis  of the guidance in paragraphs 
B13–B18. The entity whose equity interests are acquired (the legal acquiree) must be the 
acquirer for accounting purposes for the transaction to be cons idered a reverse acquisition. 
For example, reverse acquisitions sometimes occur when a privat e operating entity wants to 
become a public entity but does not want to register its equity shares. To accomplish that, the 
private entity will arrange for a public entity to acquire its equity interests in exchange for the 
equity interests of the public entity. In this example, the pub lic entity is the legal acquirer
because it issued its equity interests, and the private entity is the legal acquireacquireebecause 
its equity interests were acquired. However, application of the  guidance in paragraphs B13 –
B18 results in identifying:
(a) the public entity as the acquireacquiree for accounting purposes (the accounting
acquiree); and
(b) the private entity as the acquirer for accounting purposes (the accounting acquirer).
B41 Measuring the fair value of part icular identifiable assets and a non-controlling interest 
in an acquiree (application of paragraphparagraphs 18 and 19)
Assets with uncertain cash flows (valuation allowances)
The acquirer shall not recognise a separate valuation allowance  as of the acquisition date for 
assets acquired in a business combination that are measured at their acquisition -date fair 
values because the effects of uncertainty about future cash flows are included in the fair value 
measure. For example, because this SLFRS requires the acquirer to measure acquired 
receivables, including loans, at their acquisition -date fair values in accounting for a business 
combination, the acquirer does not recognise a separate valuati on allowance for the 
contractual cash flows that are deemed to be uncollectible at t hat date or a loss allowance for 
expected credit losses.

<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
SLFRS 4         Insurance Contracts
Para Ref Paragraph
3 This SLFRS does not address other aspects of accounting by insurers, such as accounting 
for financial assets held by insurers and financial liabilities issued by insurers (see LKAS 
32 Financial Instrume nts: Presentation , LKAS 39SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement and SLFRS 7), except in the transitional 
provisions in paragraph 45.:
(a) paragraph 20A permits insurers that meet specified criteria to apply a temporary
exemption from SLFRS 9;
(b) paragraph 35B permits insurers to apply the overlay approach to designated financial
assets; and
(c) paragraph 45 permits insurers to reclassify in specified circumstances some or all of
their financial assets so that the assets are measured at fair value through profit or 
loss.
4 An entity shall not apply this SLFRS to:
(a) product warranties issued directly by a manufacturer, dealer or  retailer (see LKAS
18SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers and LKAS 37 Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets).
(b) employers’ assets and liabilities under employee benefit plans (see LKAS
19Employee19 Employee Benefits and SLFRS 2 Share -based Payment ) and
retirement benefit obligations reported by defined benefit reti rement plans (see
LKAS 26 Accounting and Reporting by Retirement Benefit Plans).
(c) contractual rights or contractual obligations that are conti ngent on the future use of,
or right to use, a non-financial item (for example, some licence fees, royalties,
contingent lease payments and similar items), as well as a lessee’s residual value
guarantee embedded in a finance lease (see LKAS 17 Leases,L K A S  1 8SLFRS 15
Revenue from Contracts with Customers and LKAS 38 Intangible Assets).
(d) financial guarantee contracts unless the issuer has previously asserted explicitly that
it regards such contracts as insurance contracts and has used a ccounting applicable
to insurance contracts, in which case the issuer may elect to a pply either LKAS 39,
LKAS 32, SLFRS 7 and SLFRS 79 or this SLFRS to su ch financial guarantee
contracts. The issuer may make that election contract by contra ct, but the election
for each contract is irrevocable.
5 For ease of reference, this SLFRS describes any entity that issues an insurance contract as 
an insurer, whether or not the i ssuer is regarded as an insurer  for legal or supervisory 
purposes. All references in paragraphs 3(a)–3(b), 20A–20Q, 35B–35N, 39B–39M and 46–
49 to an insurer shall be read as also referring to an issuer o f a financial instrument that 
contains a discretionary participation feature.
7 Embedded derivatives
LKAS 39 SLFRS 9 requires an entity to separate some embedded derivatives from t heir 
host contract, measure them at fair value and include changes in their fair value in profit 
or loss. LKAS 39SLFRS 9 applies to derivatives embedded in an insurance contract unless 
the embedded derivative is itself an insurance contract.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  35A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
8 As an exception to the requirements in LKAS 39SLFRS 9, an insurer need not separate, 
and measure at fair value, a policyholder’s option to surrender an insurance contract for a 
fixed amount (or for an amount based on a fixed amount and an i nterest rate), even if the 
exercise price differs from the carrying amount of the host insurance liability. However, 
the requirements in LKAS 39SLFRS 9 do apply to a put option or cash surrender option 
embedded in an insurance contract if the surrender value varies in response to the change 
in a financial variable (such as an equity or commodity price or index), or a non-financial 
variable that is not specific to a party to the contract. Furthermore, those requirements also 
apply if the holder’s ability to exercise a put option or cash surrender option is triggered 
by a change in such a variable (for example, a put option that can be exercised if a stock 
market index reaches a specified level).
12 To unbundle a contract, an insurer shall:
(a) apply this SLFRS to the insurance component.
(b) apply LKAS 39SLFRS 9 to the deposit component.
Temporary exemption from SLFRS 9
20A SLFRS 9 addresses the accounting for financial instruments and is effective for 
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. However, f or an insurer that 
meets the criteria in paragraph 20B, this SLFRS provides a temp orary exemption 
that permits, b ut does not require, the insurer to apply LKAS 39 Financial 
Instruments: Recognition and Measurement rather than SLFRS 9 for annual periods 
beginning before 1 January 2021. An insurer that applies the te mporary exemption 
from SLFRS 9 shall:
(a) use the requirements in SLFRS 9 that are necessary to provide the disclosu res
required in paragraphs 39B–39J of this SLFRS; and
(b) apply all other applicable SLFRSs to its financial instrumen ts, except as
described in paragraphs 20A–20Q, 39B–39J and 46–47 of this SLFRS.
20B An insurer may apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 if, and only if:
(a) it has not previously applied any version of SLFRS 9, other than only the
requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financ ial liabilities 
designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c),  5.7.7–
5.7.9, 7.2.14 and B5.7.5–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9; and
(b) its activities are predominantly connected with insurance, a s described in
paragraph 20D, at its annual reporting date that immediate ly precedes 1 April 
2016, or at a subsequent annual reporting date as specified in paragraph 20G.
20C An insurer applying the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 is permitted to elect to apply 
only the requirements for the presentation of gains and losses on financial liabilities 
designated as at fair value through profit or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 
and B5.7.5–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9. If an insurer elects to apply those require ments, it shall 
apply the relevant transition pr ovisions in SLFRS 9, disclose t he fact that it has applied 
those requirements and provide on an ongoing basis the related disclosures set out in 
paragraphs 10–11 of SLFRS 7 (as amended by SLFRS 9 (2010)).
20D An insurer’s activities are predominantly connected with insurance if, and only if:
(a) the carrying amount of its liabilities arising from contract s within the scope of this
SLFRS, which includes any deposit components or embedded derivatives unbundled 
from insurance contracts applying paragraphs 7 –12 of this SLFRS, is significant 
compared to the total carrying amount of all its liabilities; and

<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(b) the percentage of the total carrying amount of its liabilities connected with insurance
(see paragraph 20E) relative to the total carrying amount of all its liabilities is:
(i) greater than 90 per cent; or
(ii) less than or equal to 90 per cent but greater than 80 per cent,  and the insurer
does not engage in a significant activity unconnected with insu rance (see 
paragraph 20F).
20E For the purposes of applying p aragraph 20D(b), liabilities conn ected with insurance 
comprise:
(a) liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of this SLFRS, as described in
paragraph 20D(a);
(b) non-derivative investment contract liabilities measured at fair val ue through profit
or loss applying LKAS 39 (including those designated as at fair value through profit 
or loss to which the insurer has applied the requirements in SL FRS 9 for the 
presentation of gains and losses (see paragraphs 20B(a) and 20C)); and
(c) liabilities that arise because the insurer issues, or fulfils obligations arising from, the
contracts in (a) and (b). Examples of such liabilities include derivatives used to 
mitigate risks arising from those contracts and from the assets  backing those 
contracts, relevant tax liabilities such as the deferred tax liabilities for taxable 
temporary differences on liabilities arising from those contrac ts, and debt 
instruments issued that are included in the insurer’s regulatory capital.
20F In assessing whether it engages in a significant activity uncon nected with insurance for 
the purposes of applying paragraph 20D(b)(ii), an insurer shall consider:
(a) only those activities from which it may earn income and incur expenses; and
(b) quantitative or qualitative factors (or both), including publicly available information
such as the industry classification that users of financial sta tements apply to the 
insurer.
20G Paragraph 20B(b) requires an entity to assess whether it qualif ies for the temporary 
exemption from SLFRS 9 at its annual reporting date that immedi ately precedes 1 April 
2016. After that date:
(a) an entity that previously qualified for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 shall
reassess whether its activities are predominantly connected wit h insurance at a 
subsequent annual reporting date if, and only if, there was a change in th e entity’s 
activities, as described in paragraphs 20H –20I, during the annual period that ended 
on that date.
(b) an entity that previously did not qualify for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9
is permitted to reassess whether its activities are predominant ly connected with 
insurance at a subsequent annual reporting date before 31 Decem ber 2018 if, and 
only if, there was a change in the entity’s activities, as described in paragraphs 20H–
20I, during the annual period that ended on that date.
20H For the purposes of applying paragraph 20G, a change in an entity’s activities is a change 
that:
(a) is determined by the entity’s senior management as a result of external or internal
changes;
(b) is significant to the entity’s operations; and

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  37A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(c) is demonstrable to external parties.
Accordingly, such a change occurs only when the entity begins o r ceases to perform an 
activity that is significant to its operations or significantly  changes the magnitude of one 
of its activities; for example, when the entity has acquired, d isposed of or terminated a 
business line.
20I A change in an entity’s activities, as described in paragraph 2 0H, is expected to be very 
infrequent. The following are not changes in an entity’s activities for the purposes of 
applying paragraph 20G:
(a) a change in the entity’s funding structure that in itself does not affect the activities
from which the entity earns income and incurs expenses.
(b) the entity’s plan to sell a business line, even if the assets and liabilities are classified
as held for sale applying SLFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and 
Discontinued Operations . A plan to sell a business line could change the entity’s 
activities and give rise to a reassessment in the future but ha s yet to affect the 
liabilities recognised on its statement of financial position.
20J If an entity no longer qualifies for the temporary exemption fr om SLFRS 9 as a result of 
a reassessment (see paragraph 20G(a)), then the entity is permi tted to continue to apply 
the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 only until the end of the annual period that began 
immediately after that reassessment. Nevertheless, the entity mu s t  a p p l y  S L F R S  9  f o r  
annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021. For example, if an entity determines 
that it no longer qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 applying paragraph 
20G(a) on 31 December 2018 (the end of its annual period), then the entity is permitted to 
continue to apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 only until 31 December 2019.
20K An insurer that previously elected to apply the temporary exemp tion from SLFRS 9 may 
at the beginning of any subsequent annual period irrevocably elect to apply SLFRS 9.
20L: First-time adopter
A first-time adopter, as defined in SLFRS 1 First-time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting 
Standard s, may apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 described in p aragraph 
20A if, and only if, it meets the criteria described in paragraph 20B. In applying paragraph 
20B(b), the first-time adopter shall use the carrying amounts determined applying SLFRSs 
at the date specified in that paragraph.
20M SLFRS 1 contains requirements and exemptions applicable to a fi rst-time adopter. Those 
requirements and exemptions (for example, paragraphs D16 –D17 of SLFRS 1) do not 
override the requirements in paragraphs 20A –20Q and 39B –39J of this SLFRS. For 
example, the requirements and exemptions in SLFRS 1 do not over ride the requirement 
that a first -time adopter must meet the criter ia specified in paragraph 20L to apply the 
temporary exemption from SLFRS 9.
20N A first-time adopter that discloses the information required by paragr aphs 39B–39J shall 
use the requirements and exemptions in SLFRS 1 that are relevan t to making the 
assessments required for those disclosures.
20O Temporary exemption from specific requirements in LKAS 28
Paragraphs 35–36 of LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures require an 
entity to apply uniform accounting policies when using the equi ty method. Nevertheless, 
for annual periods beginning before 1 January 2021, an entity i s permitted, but not 
required, to retain the relevant accounting policies applied by the associate or joint venture 
as follows:

<!-- page 38 -->

38A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(a) the entity applies SLFRS 9 but the associate or joint ventur e applies the temporary
exemption from SLFRS 9; or
(b) the entity applies the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 but the ass ociate or joint
venture applies SLFRS 9.
20P When an entity uses the equity method to account for its invest ment in an associate or 
joint venture:
(a) if SLFRS 9 was previously applied in the financial statements used to apply the
equity method to that associate or joint venture (after reflect ing any adjustments 
made by the entity), then SLFRS 9 shall continue to be applied.
(b) if the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 was previously applied in the financial
statements used to apply the equity method to that associate or  joint venture (after 
reflecting any adjustments made by the entity), then SLFRS 9 may be subsequently 
applied.
20Q An entity may apply paragraphs 20O and 20P(b) separately for eac h associate or joint 
venture.
34 Some insurance contracts contain a discretionary participation feature as well as a 
guaranteed element. The issuer of such a contract:
……
(d) shall, if the contract contains an embedded derivative within t h e  s c op e  o fLKAS
39SLFRS 9, apply LKAS 39SLFRS 9 to that embedded derivative.
…..
35 The requirements in paragraph 34 also apply to a financial inst rument that contains a 
discretionary participation feature. In addition:
(a) if the issuer classifies the en tire discretionary participation fe ature as a liability, it
shall apply the liability adequacy test in paragraphs 15 –19 to the whole contract (ie
both the guaranteed element and  the discretionary participation feature). The issuer
need not determine the amount that would result from applying L KAS 39SLFRS 9
to the guaranteed element.
(b) if the issuer classifies part or all of that feature as a se parate component of equity,
the liability recognised for the whole contract shall n ot be less than the amount that
would result from applying LKAS 39SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element. That
amount shall include the intrinsic value of an option to surren der the contract, but
need not include its time value if paragraph 9 exempts that option from measurement
at fair value. The issuer need not disclose the amount that would result from applying
LKAS 39SLFRS 9 to the guaranteed element, nor need it present that amount
separately. Furthermore, the issuer need not determine that amo unt if the total
liability recognised is clearly higher.
(c) although these contracts are financial instruments, the issu er may continue to
recognise the premiums for those contracts as revenue and recog nise as an expense
the resulting increase in the carrying amount of the liability.
(d) although these contracts are financial instruments, an issue r applying paragraph
20(b) of SLFRS 7 to contracts with a discretionary participation feature shall disclose
the total interest expense recogni sed in profit or loss, but ne ed not calculate such
interest expense using the effective interest method.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  39A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
35A The temporary exemptions in paragraphs 20A, 20L and 20O and the  overlay approach in 
paragraph 35B are also available to an issuer of a financial in strument that contains a 
discretionary participation feature. Accordingly, all reference s in paragraphs 3(a) –3(b), 
20A–20Q, 35B–35N, 39B–39M and 46–49 to an insurer shall be read as also referring to 
an issuer of a financial instrument that contains a discretionary participation feature.
Presentation
The overlay approach
35B
An insurer is permitted, but not required, to apply the overlay  approach to 
designated financial assets. An insurer that applies the overlay approach shall:
(a) reclassify between profit or loss and other comprehensive income an amount
that results in the profit or loss at the end of the reporting period for the 
designated financial assets being the same as if the insurer ha d applied LKAS 
39 to the designated financial asse ts. Accordingly, the amount reclassified is 
equal to the difference between:
(i) the amount reported in profit or loss for the designated financ ial assets
applying SLFRS 9; and
(ii) the amount that would have been reported in profit or loss for the
designated financial assets if the insurer had applied LKAS 39.
(b) apply all other applicable SLFRSs to its financial instrumen ts, except as
described in paragraphs 35B–35N, 39K–39M and 48–49 of this SLFRS.
35C An insurer may elect to apply the overlay approach described in paragraph 35B only 
when it first applies SLFRS 9, including when it first applies SLFRS 9 after 
previously applying:
(a) the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 described in paragraph 20A; or
(b) only the requirements for the presentation of gai ns and losses on financial
liabilities designated as at fa ir value through profit or loss in paragraphs 
5.7.1(c), 5.7.7–5.7.9, 7.2.14 and B5.7.5–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9.
35D An insurer shall present the amount reclassified between profit  or loss and other 
comprehensive income applying the overlay approach:
(a) in profit or loss as a separate line item; and
(b) in other comprehensive income as a separate component of oth er comprehensive
income.
35E A financial asset is eligible for designation for the overlay a pproach if, and only if, the 
following criteria are met:
(a) it is measured at fair value through profit or loss applying  SLFRS 9 but would not
have been measured at fair value through profit or loss in its entirety applying LKAS 
39; and
(b) it is not hel d in respect of an activity that is unconnected with contracts within the
scope of this SLFRS. Examples of financial assets that would not be eligible for the 
overlay approach are those assets held in respect of banking ac tivities or financial 
assets held in funds relating to investment contracts that are outside the scope of this 
SLFRS.

<!-- page 40 -->

40A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
35F An insurer may designate an eligible financial asset for the overlay approach when it elects 
to apply  the overlay  approach (see paragraph 35C). Subsequently , it may designate an 
eligible financial asset for the overlay approach when, and only when:
(a) that asset is initially recognised; or
(b) that asset newly meets the cr iterion in paragraph 35E(b) hav ing previously not met
that criterion.
35G An insurer is permitted to designate eligible financial assets f or the overlay approach 
applying paragraph 35F on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
35H When relevant, for the purposes of applying the overlay approac h to a newly designated 
financial asset applying paragraph 35F(b):
(a) its fair value at the date of designation shall be its new a mortised cost carrying
amount; and
(b) the effective interest rate shall be determined based on its  fair value at the date of
designation.
35I An entity shall continue to apply the overlay approach to a designated financial asset until 
that financial asset is derecognised. However, an entity:
(a) shall de- designate a financial asset when the financial asset no longer meets the
criterion in paragraph 35E(b). For example, a financial asset will no longer meet that 
criterion when an entity transfers that asset so that it is held in respect of its banking 
activities or when an entity ceases to be an insurer.
(b) may, at the beginning of any annual per iod, stop applying the overlay approach to
all designated financial assets. An entity that elects to stop applying the overlay 
approach shall apply LKAS 8 to account for the change in accounting policy.
35J When an entity de-designates a financial asset applying paragraph 35I(a), it shall reclassify 
from accumulated other comprehensive income to profit or loss a s a reclassification 
adjustment (see LKAS 1) any balance relating to that financial asset.
35K If an entity stops using the overlay approach applying the elec tion in paragraph 35I(b) or 
because it is no longer an insurer, it shall not subsequently apply the overlay approach. An 
insurer that has elected to apply the overlay approach (see par agraph 35C) but has no 
eligible financial assets (see paragraph 35E) may subsequently apply the overlay approach 
when it has eligible financial assets.
35L Interaction with other requirements
Paragraph 30 of this SLFRS permits a practice that is sometimes  described as ’shadow 
accounting’. If an insurer applies the overlay approach, shadow accounting may be 
applicable.
35M Reclassifying an amount between profit or loss and other comprehensive income applying 
paragraph 35B may have consequential effects for including othe r amounts in other 
comprehensive income, such as income taxes. An insurer shall apply the relevant SLFRS, 
such as LKAS 12 Income Taxes, to determine any such consequential effects.
35N First-time adopter
If a first -time adopter elects to apply the overlay approach, it shall res tate comparative 
information to reflect the overlay approach if, and only if, it  restates comparative 
information to comply with SLFRS 9 (see paragraphs E1–E2 of SLFRS 1).

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  41A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
Disclosures about the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9
39B
An insurer that elects to apply the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 shall disclose 
information to enable users of financial statements:
(a) to understand how the insurer qualified for the temporary exemption; and
(b) to compare insurers applying the temporary exemption with en tities applying
SLFRS 9.
39C To comply with paragraph 39B(a), an insurer shall disclose the fact that it is applying the 
temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 and how the insurer concluded on the date specified 
in paragraph 20B(b) that it qualifies for the temporary exempti on from SLFRS 9, 
including:
(a) if the carrying amount of its liabilities arising from contracts within the scope of this
SLFRS (ie those liabilities described in paragraph 20E(a)) was less than or equal to 
90 per cent of the total carrying amount o f all its liabilities, the nature and carrying 
amounts of the liabilities connected with insurance that are not liabilities arising from 
contracts within the scope of this SLFRS (ie those liabilities described in paragraphs 
20E(b) and 20E(c));
(b) if the p ercentage of the total carrying amount of its liabilities conne cted with
insurance relative to the total carrying amount of all its liab ilities was less than or 
equal to 90 per cent but greater than 80 per cent, how the insu rer determined that it 
did not engage in a significant activity unconnected with insurance, inc luding what 
information it considered; and
(c) if the insurer qualified for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 on the basis of a
reassessment applying paragraph 20G(b):
(i) the reason for the reassessment;
(ii) the date on which the relevant change in its activities occurred; and
(iii) a detailed explanation of the change  in its activities and a qu alitative
description of the effect of that change on the insurer’s financial statements.
39D If, applying paragraph 20G(a), an entity concludes that its act ivities are no longer 
predominantly connected with insurance, it shall disclose the f ollowing information in 
each reporting period before it begins to apply SLFRS 9:
(a) the fact that it no longer qualifies for the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9;
(b) the date on which the relevant change in its activities occurred; and
(c) a detailed explanation of the change in its activities and a  qualitative description of
the effect of that change on the entity’s financial statements.
39E To comply with paragraph 39B(b), an insurer shall disclose the fair value at the end of the 
reporting period and the amount of change in the fair value dur ing that period for the 
following two groups of financial assets separately:
(a) financial assets with contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows
that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding 
(ie financial assets that meet the condition in paragraphs 4.1. 2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) of 
SLFRS 9), excluding any financial asset that meets the definition of held for trading 
in SLFRS 9, or that is managed and whose performance is evaluat ed on a fair value 
basis (see paragraph B4.1.6 of SLFRS 9).

<!-- page 42 -->

42A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(b) all financial assets oth er than those specified in paragraph 39E(a); that is, any
financial asset:
(i) with contractual terms that do not give rise on specified dates to cash flows that
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding;
(ii) that meets the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9; or
(iii) that is managed and whose performance is evaluated on a fair value basis.
39F When disclosing the information in paragraph 39E, the insurer:
(a) may deem the carrying amount of the financial asset measured applying LKAS 39
to be a reasonable approximation of its fair value if the insur er is not required to 
disclose its fair value applying paragraph 29(a) of SLFRS 7 (eg  s h or t-term trade 
receivables); and
(b) shall consider the level of detail necessary to enable users of financial statements to
understand the characteristics of the financial assets.
39G To comply with paragraph 39B(b), an insurer shall disclose info rmation about the credit 
risk exposure, including significant credit risk concentrations , inherent in the financial 
assets described in paragraph 39E(a). At a minimum, an insurer shall disclose the 
following information for those financial assets at the end of the reporting period:
(a) by credit risk rating grades as defined in SLFRS 7, the carrying amounts applying
LKAS 39 (in the case of financial assets measured at amortised cost, before adjusting 
for any impairment allowances).
(b) for the financial assets described in paragraph 39E(a) that do not have low credit risk
at the end of the reporting period, the fair value and the carrying am ount applying 
LKAS 39 (in the case of financial assets measured at amortised cost, before adjusting 
for any impairment allowances). For the purposes of this disclo sure, paragraph 
B5.5.22 of SLF RS 9 provides the relevant requirements for assessing whether t he 
credit risk on a financial instrument is considered low.
39H To comply with paragraph 39B(b), an insurer shall disclose info rmation about where a 
user of financial statements can obtain any publicly available SLFRS 9 information that 
relates to an entity within the group that is not provided in t he group’s consolidated 
financial statements for the relev ant reporting period. For exa mple, such SLFRS 9 
information could be obtained from the publicly available individual or separate financial 
statements of an entity within the group that has applied SLFRS 9.
39I If an entity elected to apply the exemption in paragraph 20O from particular requirements 
in LKAS 28, it shall disclose that fact.
39J If an entity applied the temporary exemption from SLFRS 9 when accounting for its 
investment in an associate or joint venture using the equity me thod (for example, see 
paragraph 20O(a)), the entity shall disclose the following, in addition to the information 
required by SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities:
(a) the information described by paragraphs 39B–39H for each associate or joint venture
that is material to the entity. The amounts disclosed shall be those included in the 
SLFRS financial statements of the associate or joint venture af ter reflecting any 

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  43A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
adjustments made by the entity when using the equity method (see paragraph B14(a) 
of SLFRS 12), rather than the entity’s share of those amounts.
(b) the quantitative information described by paragraphs 39B –39H in aggregate for all
individually immaterial associates or joint ventures. The aggregate amounts:
(i) disclosed shall be the entity’s share of those amounts; and
(ii) for associates shall be disclosed separately from the aggre gate a mounts
disclosed for joint ventures.
Disclosures about the overlay approach
39K An insurer that applies the overlay approach shall disclose inf ormation to enable 
users of financial statements to understand:
(a) how the total amount reclassified between profit or loss and other
comprehensive income in the reporting period is calculated; and
(b) the effect of that reclassification on the financial statements.
39L To comply with paragraph 39K, an insurer shall disclose:
(a) the fact that it is applying the overlay approach;
(b) the carrying amount at the end of the reporting period of fi nancial assets to which
the insurer applies the overlay approach by class of financial asset;
(c) the basis for designating financial assets for the overlay appr oach, including an
explanation of any designated financial assets that are held ou tside the legal entity 
that issues contracts within the scope of this SLFRS;
(d) an explanation of the total amount reclassified between prof it or loss and other
comprehensive income in the reporting period in a way that enables users of financial 
statements to understand how that amount is derived, including:
(i) the amount reported in profit or loss for the designated financial assets applying
SLFRS 9; and
(ii) the amount that would have been reported in profit or loss for the designated
financial assets if the insurer had applied LKAS 39.
(e) the effect of the reclassification described in paragraphs 3 5B and 35M on each
affected line item in profit or loss; and
(f) if during the r eporting period the insurer has changed the designation of fina ncial
assets:
(i) the amount reclassified between profit or loss and other comprehensive income
in the reporting period relating to newly designated financial assets applying the 
overlay approach (see paragraph 35F(b));
(ii) the amount that would have been reclassified between profit or loss and other
comprehensive income in the reporting period if the financial a ssets had not 
been de-designated (see paragraph 35I(a)); and
(iii) the amount reclassified in the reporting period to profit or loss from accumulated
other comprehensive income for financial assets that have been de-designated 
(see paragraph 35J).

<!-- page 44 -->

44A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
39M If an entity applied the overlay approach when accounting for i ts investment in an 
associate or joint venture using the equity method, the entity shall disclose the following, 
in addition to the information required by SLFRS 12:
(a) the information described by paragraphs 39K–39L for each associate or joint venture
that is material to th e entity. The amounts disclosed shall be those included in the 
SLFRS financial statements of the associate or joint venture af ter reflecting any 
adjustments made by the entity when using the equity method (see paragraph B14(a) 
of SLFRS 12), rather than the entity’s share of those amounts.
(b) the quantitative information described by paragraphs 39K –39L(d) and 39L(f), and
the effect of the reclassification described in paragraph 35B o n profit or loss and 
other comprehensive income in aggregate for all indivi dually immaterial associates 
or joint ventures. The aggregate amounts:
(i) disclosed shall be the entity’s share of those amounts; and
(ii) for associates shall be disclosed separately from the aggregate  amounts
disclosed for joint ventures.
41C – 41D [Deleted]
41G –
41H
[These paragraphs refer to amendments th at are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
41G SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers , issued in June 2014, amended
paragraphs refer4(a) and (c), B7, B18(h) and B21. An entity shall apply those amendments 
when it applies SLFRS 15.
41H SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 3, 4, 7, 8, 12, 34, 35, 45, 
A p p e n d i x  A  a n d  p a r a g r a p h s  B 1 8–B20 and deleted paragraphs 41C, 41D and 41F. An 
entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 9.
41I [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not
included in this edition.]
45
Redesignation of financial assets
WhenNotwithstanding paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9, when an insurer changes its 
accounting policies for insurance liabilities, it is permitted,  but not required, to reclassify 
some or all of its financial assets as ‘so that they are measured at fair value through profit 
or loss’loss. This reclassification is pe rmitted if an insurer changes accounting policies 
when it first applies this SLFRS and if it makes a subsequent p olicy change permitted by 
paragraph 22. The reclassification is a change in accounting policy and LKAS 8 applies.
Applying SLFRS 4 with SLFRS 9
Temporary exemption from SLFRS 9
46 Applying SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments with SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments 
to SLFRS 4), issued in October 2016, amended paragraphs 3 and 5, and added paragraphs 
20A–20Q, 35A and 39B –39J and headings after paragraphs 20, 20K, 20N and 39A. An 
entity shall apply those amendments, which permit insurers that meet specified criteria to 
apply a temporary exemption from SLFRS 9, for annual periods be ginning on or after 1 
January 2018.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  45A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
47 An entity that discloses the information required by paragraphs  39B –39J shall use the 
transitional provisions in SLFR S 9 that are relevant to making the assessments required 
for those disclosures. The date of initial application for that purpose shall be deemed to be 
the beginning of the first annual period beginning on or after 1 January 2018.
48
The overlay approach
Applying SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments with SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts (Amendments 
to SLFRS 4), issued in October 2016, amended paragraphs 3 and 5, and added paragraphs 
35A–35N and 39K–39M and headings after paragraphs 35A, 35K, 35M and 39J. An entity 
shall apply those amendments, which permit insurers to apply the  overlay approach to 
designated financial assets, when it first applies SLFRS 9 (see paragraph 35C).
49 An entity that elects to apply the overlay approach shall:
(a) apply that approach retrospectively to designated financial assets on  transition to
SLFRS 9. Accordingly, for example, the entity shall recognise a s an adjustment to 
the opening balance of accumulated other comprehensive income a n amount equal 
to the difference between the fair value of the designated financial assets determined 
applying SLFRS 9 and their carrying amount determined applying LKAS 39.
(b) restate comparative information to reflect the overlay appro ach if, and only if, the
entity restates comparative information applying SLFRS 9.
Appendix 
A
deposit component
A contractual component that is not accounted for as a derivative under LKAS 39SLFRS 
9 and would be within the scope of LKAS 39SLFRS 9 if it were a separate instrument.
B7 Applying the SLFRS to the contracts described in paragraph B6 is likely to be no more 
burdensome than applying the SLFRSs that would be applicable if  such contracts were 
outside the scope of this SLFRS:
(a) There are unlikely to be material liabilities for malfunctions and breakdowns that have
already occurred.
(b) If LKAS 18 RevenueSLFRS 15 applied, the service provider would recognise revenue
by referencewhen (or as) it transfers services to the stage of completion (and customer
(subject to other specified criteria). That approach is also acceptable under this
SLFRS, which permits the service provider (i) to continue its e xisting accounting
policies for these contracts unless they involve practices proh ibited by paragraph 14
and (ii) to improve its accounting policies if so permitted by paragraphs 22–30.
……
B18 Examples of insurance contracts
The following are examples of contracts that are insurance cont racts, if the transfer of 
insurance risk is significant:
……..
(g) credit insurance that provides for specified payments to be made to reimburse the
holder for a loss it incurs becau se a specified debtor fails to  make payment when
due under the original or modified terms of a debt instrument. These contracts could
have various legal forms, such as that of a guarantee, some types of letter of credit,
a credit derivative default contract or an insurance contract. However, although

<!-- page 46 -->

46A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
these contracts meet the definition of an insurance contract, t hey also meet the 
definition of a financial guarantee contract in LKAS 39SLFRS 9 and are within the 
scope of LKAS 32 2 and LKAS 39SLFRS 9 , not this SLFRS (see paragraph 4(d)).
Nevertheless, if an issuer of financial guarantee contracts has  previously asserted 
explicitly that it regards su ch contracts as insurance contracts and has used 
accounting applicable to insurance contracts, the issuer may el ect to apply either 
LKAS 39323 and LKAS 32 4SLFRS 9 or this SLFRS to such financial guarantee 
contracts.
(h) product warranties. Product warranties issued by another party for good s sold by a
manufacturer, dealer or retailer are within the scope of this S LFRS. However,
product warranties issued directly by a manufacturer, dealer or  retailer are outside
its scope, because they are within the scope of LKAS 18SLFRS 15 and LKAS 37.
4. When an entity applies IFRS 7, the reference to LKAS 32 is replaced by a reference to SLFRS 7.
B19 The following are examples of items that are not insurance contracts:
……
(e) derivatives that expose one party to financial risk but not insurance risk, because
they require that party to make payment based solely on changes in one or more of
a specified interest rate, finan cial instrument price, commodit y price, foreign
exchange rate, index of prices or rates, credit rating or credit index or other variable,
provided in the case of a non-financial variable that the variable is not specific to a
party to the contract (see LKAS 39SLFRS 9).
(f) a credit-related guarantee (or letter of credit, credit derivative default contract or
credit insurance contract) that requires payments even if the holder has not incurred
a loss on the failure of the debtor to make payments when due (see LKAS 39SLFRS
9).
…….
B20 If the contracts described in paragraph B19 create financial as sets or financial liabilities, 
they are within the scope of LKAS 39SLFRS 9. Among other things, this means that the 
parties to the contract use what is sometimes called deposit ac counting, which involves 
the following:
….
B21 If the contracts described in paragraph B19 do not create finan cial assets or financial 
liabilities, LKAS 18SLFRS 15 applies. Under LKAS 18SLFRS 15, revenue associated 
with a transaction involving the rendering of services is recognised when (or as) an entity 
satisfies a performance obligation by referencetransferring a promised good or service to 
a customer in an amount that reflects the consideration to whic h the stage of completion 
of the transaction if the outcome of t he transaction canentity expects to be estimated 
reliablyentitled.
2 When an entity applies SLFRSIFRS 7, the reference to LKASIAS 32 is replaced by a reference to SLFRSIFRS 7.
3 When an entity applies IFRS 7, the reference to IAS 32 is replaced by a reference to IFRS 7.
4 When an entity applies SLFRS 7, the reference to LKAS 32 is replaced by a reference to SLFRS 7.

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  47A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
SLFRS 5        Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
5 The measurement provisions of this SLFRS 3 do not apply to the following assets, which are 
covered by the SLFRSs listed, either as individual assets or as part of a disposal group:
……..
(c) financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement.
…….
3 Other than paragraphs 18 and 19, which require the assets in question to be measured in accordance with other applicable SLFRSs.
33 An entity shall disclose:
(a) a single amount in the statement of comprehensive income comprising the total of:
(i) the post-tax profit or loss of discontinued operations and
(ii) the post-tax gain or loss recognised on the measurement to fair value le ss costs to
sell or on the disposal of the a ssets or disposal group(s) cons tituting the
discontinued operation.
(b) an analysis of the single amount in (a) into:
(i) the revenue, expenses and pre-tax profit or loss of disconti nued operations;
(ii) the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of LKAS 12; and.
(iii) the gain or loss recognised on the measurement to fair value less costs to sell or on
the disposal of the assets or d isposal group(s) constituting th e discontinued
operation. ; and
(iv) the related income tax expense as required by paragraph 81(h) of LKAS 12.
……
44J -
44K
[These paragraphs refer to amendments that are not yet effective, and are therefore not
included in this edition.]
44J [Deleted]
44K SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraph 5 and deleted paragraphs44F and 
44J. An entity shall apply those when it applies SLFRS 9.
44M [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included 
in this edition.]

<!-- page 48 -->

48A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
SLFRS 6 Exploration for and Evaluation of Mineral Resources
No changes
SLFRS 7   Financial Instruments: Disclosures
Due to the considerable amount of changes, the full standard has been included. 
SLFRS 8     Operating Segments
No changes
SLFRS 10    Consolidated Financial Statements
No changes
SLFRS 11    Joint Arrangements
Para 
Ref
Paragraph
26 Separate financial statements
In its separate financial statem ents, a joint operator or joint  ventureventurer shall 
account for its interest in:
(a) a joint operation in accordance with paragraphs 20–22;
(b) a joint venture in accordance with paragraph 10 of LKAS 27 Separate Financial
Statements.
SLFRS 12    Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities
No changes
SLFRS 13   Fair Value Measurement
Para 
Ref
Paragraph Remarks
52 The exception in paragraph 48 applies only to financial assets,  financial 
liabilities and other contracts within the scope of SLFRS 9 Financial 
Instruments (or LKAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and
Measurement or, if SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments .has not yet been 
adopted). The references to financial assets and financial liabi lities in 
paragraphs 48 –5 1  a n d  5 3–56 should be read as applying to all contracts 
within the scope of, and accounted for in accordance with, LKAS  39 or 
SLFRS 9, SLFRS 9 (or LKAS 39, if SLFRS 9 has not ye t been adopted),
regardless of whether they meet the definitions of financial as sets or 
financial liabilities in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation.
C5 SLFRS 9, as issued in July 2014, amended paragraph 52. An entit y shall 
apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  49A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
SLFRS 14    Regulatory Deferral Accounts
No changes
The Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting
No changes
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard – SLFRS 7   
Financial Instruments: Disclosures
OBJECTIVE 1
SCOPE 3
CLASSES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND 
LEVEL OF DISCLOSURE 6
SIGNIFICANCE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
FOR FINANCIAL POSITION AND PERFORMANCE 7
Statement of financial position 8
Statement of comprehensive income 20
Other disclosures 21
NATURE AND EXTENT OF RISKS ARISING 
FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 31
Qualitative disclosures 33
Quantitative disclosures 34
TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS 42A
Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised 
in their entirety 42D
Transferred financial assets that are derecognised in their 
entirety 42E
Supplementary information 42H
EFFECTIVE DATE AND TRANSITION 43
APPENDICES
A Defined terms
B Application guidance

<!-- page 50 -->

50A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-SLFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures is set out in paragraphs 1 –
44DD and Appendices A –B. All the paragraphs have equal authority. Paragraphs in bold type state the 
main principles. Terms defined in Appendix A are in italics the first time they appear in the Standard. 
Definitions of other terms are given in the Glossary for Sri La nka Accounting Standards. SLFRS 7 should 
be read in the context of its objective, Preface to Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and the Conceptual 
Framework for Financial Reporting . LKAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and 
Errors provides a basis for selecting and applying accounting policies in the absence of explicit guidance.
Objective
1 The objective of this SLFRS is to require entities to provide disclosures in their financial statements 
that enable users to evaluate:
(a) the significance of financial instruments for the entity’s fina ncial position and performance;
and
(b) the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instru ments to which the entity is exposed
during the period and at the end of the reporting period, and h ow the entity manages those
risks.
2 The principles in this SLFRS complement the principles for rec ognising, measuring and presenting 
financial assets and financial liabilities in LKAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and SLFRS 
9 Financial Instruments.
Scope
3 This SLFRS shall be applied by all entities to all types of financial instruments, except:
(a) those interests in subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures that are accounted for in accordance
with SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, LKAS 27 Separate Financial Statements
or LKAS 28 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures . However, in some cases, SLFRS
10, LKAS 27 or LKAS 28 require or permit an entity to account for an interest in a subsidiary,
associate or joint venture using SLFRS 9; in those cases, entities shall apply the requirements
of this SLFRS and, for those measured at fair value, the requirements of SLFRS 13 Fair Value
Measurement. Entities shall also apply this SLFRS to all derivatives linke d to interests in
subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures unless the derivative meets the definition of an equity
instrument in LKAS 32.
(b) employers’ rights and obligations arisi ng from employee benefit plans, to which LKAS 19
Employee Benefits applies.
(c) [deleted]
(d) insurance contracts as defined in SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. However, this SLFRS applies
to derivatives that are embedded in insurance contracts if SLFR S 9 requires the entity to
account for them separately. Moreover, an issuer shall apply this SLFRS to financial guarantee
contracts if the issuer applies SLFRS 9 in recognising and meas uring the contracts, but shall
apply SLFRS 4 if the issuer elects, in accordance with paragrap h 4(d) of SLFRS 4, to apply
SLFRS 4 in recognising and measuring them.
(e) financial instruments, contr acts and obligations under share -based payment transactions to
which SLFRS 2 Share-based Payment applies, except that this S LFRS applies to contracts
within the scope of SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  51A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(f) instruments that are required to be classified as equity ins truments in accordance with
paragraphs 16A and 16B or paragraphs 16C and 16D of LKAS 32.
4 This SLFRS applies to recognised and unrecognised financial in struments. Recognised financial 
instruments include financial assets and financial liabilities that are within the scope of SLFRS 9. 
Unrecognised financial instruments include some financial instr uments that, although outside the 
scope of SLFRS 9, are within the scope of this SLFRS.
5 This SLFRS applies to contracts to buy or sell a non-financial  item that are within the scope of SLFRS 
9.
5A The credit risk disclosure r equirements in paragraphs 35A–35N apply to those rights that SLFRS 15 
Revenue from Contracts with Customers specifies are accounted for in accordance with SLFRS 9 for 
the purposes of recognising impairment gains or losses. Any reference to financial assets or financial 
instruments in these paragraphs shall include those rights unless otherwise specified.
Classes of financial instruments and level of disclosure
6 When this SLFRS requires disclosures by class of financial instrument, an entity shall group financial 
instruments into classes that are appropriate to the nature of the information disclosed and that take 
into account the characteristics of those financial instruments . An entity shall provide sufficient 
information to permit reconciliation to the line items presented in the statement of financial position.
Significance of financial instruments for financial position and performance
7 An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements to evaluate 
the significance of financial instruments for its financial position and performance.
Statement of financial position
Categories of financial assets and financial liabilities
8 The carrying amounts of each of the following categories, as specified in SLFRS 9, shall be disclosed 
either in the statement of financial position or in the notes:
(a) financial assets measured at fair value through profit or lo ss, showing separately (i) those
designated as such upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with paragraph
6.7.1 of SLFRS 9 and (ii) those mandatorily measured at fair va lue through profit or loss in
accordance with SLFRS 9.
(b)–(d) [deleted]
(e) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, showing separately (i) those designated
as such upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance w i t h  p a r a g r a p h  6 . 7 . 1  o f
SLFRS 9 and (ii) those that meet the definition of held for trading in SLFRS 9.
(f) financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(g) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(h) financial assets measured at fair value through other compre hensive income, showing
separately (i) financial assets that are measured at fair value  through other comprehensive
income in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9; and (ii)  investments in equity

<!-- page 52 -->

52A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
instruments designated as such upon initial recognition in acco rdance with paragraph 5.7.5 
of SLFRS 9.
Financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
9 If the entity has designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss a financial asset (or group 
of financial assets) that would otherwise be measured at fair v alue through other comprehensive 
income or amortised cost, it shall disclose:
(a) the maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(a)) of  the financial asset (or group of
financial assets) at the end of the reporting period.
(b) the amount by which any related credit derivatives or similar  instruments mitigate that
maximum exposure to credit risk (see paragraph 36(b)).
(c) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in  the fair value of the financial
asset (or group of financial assets) that is attributable to ch anges in the credit risk of the
financial asset determined either:
(i) as the amount of change in its fair value that is not attrib utable to changes in market
conditions that give rise to market risk; or
(ii) using an alternative method the entity believes more faithf ully represents the amount
of change in its fair value that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of the asset.
Changes in market conditions that give rise to market risk incl ude changes in an observed 
(benchmark) interest rate, commodity price, foreign exchange rate or index of prices or rates.
(d) the amount of the change in the fair value of any related cr edit derivatives or similar
instruments that has occurred during the period and cumulatively since the financial asset was
designated.
10 If the entity has designated a financial liability as at fair  value through profit or loss in accordance 
with paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is required to present the effects of changes in that liability’ s
credit risk in other comprehensive income (see paragraph 5.7.7 of SLFRS 9), it shall disclose:
(a) the amount of change, cumulatively, in the fair value of the  financial liability that is
attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability (s ee paragraphs B5.7.13 –B5.7.20 of
SLFRS 9 for guidance on determining the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk).
(b) the difference between the financial liability’s carrying amoun t and the amount the entity
would be contractually required to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
(c) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity d uring the period including the
reason for such transfers.
(d) if a liability is derecognised during the period, the amount  (if any) presented in other
comprehensive income that was realised at derecognition.
10A If an entity has designated a financial liability as at fair  value through profit or loss in accordance 
with paragraph 4.2.2 of SLFRS 9 and is required to present all changes in the fair value of that liability 
(including the effects of changes in the credit risk of the lia bility) in profit or loss (see paragraphs 
5.7.7 and 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9), it shall disclose:

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  53A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(a) the amount of change, during the period and cumulatively, in  the fair value of the financial
liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of  that liability (see paragraphs
B5.7.13–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9 for guidance on determining the effects of c hanges in a
liability’s credit risk); and
(b) the difference between the finan cial liability’s carrying amount and the amount the entity
would be contractually required to pay at maturity to the holder of the obligation.
11 The entity shall also disclose:
(a) a detailed description of the methods used to comply with th e requirements in paragraphs 9(c),
10(a) and 10A(a) and paragraph 5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9, including a n explanation of why the
method is appropriate.
(b) if the entity believes that the disclosure it has given, either in the statement of financial position
or in the notes, to comply with the requirements in paragraph 9( c), 10(a) or 10A(a) or
paragraph 5.7.7(a) of SLFRS 9 does not faithfully represent the change in the fair value of the
financial asset or financial liability attributable to changes in its credit risk, the reasons for
reaching this conclusion and the factors it believes are relevant.
(c) a detailed description of the methodology or methodologies u sed to determine whether
presenting the effects of changes in a liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive inco me
would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or los s (see paragraphs 5.7.7 and
5.7.8 of SLFRS 9). If an entity is required to present the effe cts of changes in a liability’s
credit risk in profit or loss (see paragraph 5.7.8 of SLFRS 9),  the disclosure must include a
detailed description of the economic relationship described in paragraph B5.7.6 of SLFRS 9.
Investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other 
comprehensive income
11A If an entity has designated investments in equity instruments to be measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income, as permitted by paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9, it shall disclose:
(a) which investments in equity instruments have been designated  to be measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income.
(b) the reasons for using this presentation alternative.
(c) the fair value of each such investment at the end of the rep orting period.
(d) dividends recognised during the period, showing separately t hose related to investments
derecognised during the reporting period and those related to i nvestments held at the end of
the reporting period.
(e) any transfers of the cumulative gain or loss within equity d uring the period including the
reason for such transfers.
11B If an entity derecognised investments in equity instruments measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income during the reporting period, it shall disclose:
(a) the reasons for disposing of the investments.
(b) the fair value of the invest ments at the date of derecognition.
(c) the cumulative gain or loss on disposal.

<!-- page 54 -->

54A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
Reclassification
12–
12A [Deleted]
12B An entity shall disclose if, in the current or previous reporting periods, it has reclassified any financial 
assets in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 of SLFRS 9. For each such event, an entity shall disclose:
(a) the date of reclassification.
(b) a detailed explanation of the change in business model and a qualitative description of its
effect on the entity’s financial statements.
(c) the amount reclassified into and out of each category.
12C For each reporting period following reclassification until d erecognition, an entity shall disclose for 
assets reclassified out of the fair value through profit or los s category so that they are measured at 
amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 4.4.1 
of SLFRS 9:
(a) the effective interest rate determined on the date of reclas sification; and
(b) the interest revenue recognised.
12D If, since its last annual reporting date, an entity has recl assified financial assets out of the fair value 
through other comprehensive income category so that they are me asured at amortised cost or out of 
the fair value through profit or loss category so that they are measured at amortised cost or fair value 
through other comprehensive income it shall disclose:
(a) the fair value of the financial assets at the end of the rep orting period; and
(b) the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in profit or loss or other
comprehensive income during the reporting period if the financi al assets had not been
reclassified.
13 [Deleted]
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities
13A The disclosures in paragraphs 13B–13E supplement the other disclosure requirements of this SLFRS 
and are required for all recognised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with paragraph 
42 of LKAS 32. These disclosures also apply to recognised finan cial instruments that are subject to 
an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement, irrespective of whether they are set 
off in accordance with paragraph 42 of LKAS 32.
13B An entity shall disclose information to enable users of its financial statements to evaluate the effect 
or potential effect of netting arrangements on the entity’s financial position. This includes the effect 
or potential effect of rights of set-off associ ated with the entity’s recognised financial assets and 
recognised financial liabilities that are within the scope of paragraph 13A.
13C To meet the objective in paragraph 13B, an entity shall disc lose, at the end of the reporting period, 
the following quantitative information separately for recognise d financial assets and recognised 
financial liabilities that are within the scope of paragraph 13A:

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  55A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(a) the gross amounts of those recognised financial assets and r ecognised financial liabilities;
(b) the amounts that are set off in accordance with the criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32 when
determining the net amounts presented in the statement of financial position;
(c) the net amounts presented in the statement of financial posi tion;
(d) the amounts subject to an enforceable master netting arrange ment or similar agreement that
are not otherwise included in paragraph 13C(b), including:
(i) amounts related to recognised financial instruments that do not meet some or all of the
offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32; and
(ii) amounts related to financial collateral (including cash col lateral); and
(e) the net amount after deducting the amounts in (d) from the a mounts in (c) above.
The information required by this paragraph shall be presented i n a tabular format, separately for 
financial assets and financial liabilities, unless another format is more appropriate.
13D The total amount disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C( d) for an instrument shall be limited 
to the amount in paragraph 13C(c) for that instrument.
13E An entity shall include a description in the disclosures of the rights of set-off associated with the 
entity’s recognised financial assets and recognised financial l iabilities subject to enforceable master 
netting arrangements and similar agreements that are disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d), 
including the nature of those rights.
13F If the information required by paragraphs 13B–13E is disclosed in more than one note to the financial 
statements, an entity shall cross-refer between those notes.
Collateral
14 An entity shall disclose:
(a) the carrying amount of financial assets it has pledged as co llateral for liabilities or contingent
liabilities, including amounts that have been reclassified in a ccordance with paragraph
3.2.23(a) of SLFRS 9; and
(b) the terms and conditio ns relating to its pledge.
15 When an entity holds collateral (of financial or non-financia l assets) and is permitted to sell or 
repledge the collateral in the absence of default by the owner of the collateral, it shall disclose:
(a) the fair value of the collateral held;
(b) the fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged, and  whether the entity has an obligation
to return it; and
(c) the terms and conditions associated with its use of the coll ateral.
Allowance account for credit losses
16 [Deleted]

<!-- page 56 -->

56A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
16A The carrying amount of financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
in accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9 is not reduced b y a loss allowance and an entity 
shall not present the loss allowance separately in the statement of financial position as a reduction of 
the carrying amount of the financial asset. However, an entity shall disclose the loss allowance in the 
notes to the financial statements.
Compound financial instruments with multiple embedded derivatives
17 If an entity has issued an instrument that contains both a li ability and an equity component (see 
paragraph 28 of LKAS 32) and the instrument has multiple embedd ed derivatives whose values are 
interdependent (such as a callable convertible debt instrument), it shall disclose the existence of those 
features.
Defaults and breaches
18 For loans payable recognised at the end of the reporting period, an entity shall disclose:
(a) details of any defaults during the period of principal, inte rest, sinking fund, or redemption
terms of those loans payable;
(b) the carrying amount of the loans payable in default at the e nd of the reporting period; and
(c) whether the default was remedied, or the terms of the loans payable were renegotiated, before
the financial statements were authorised for issue.
19 If, during the period, there were breaches of loan agreement terms other than those described in 
paragraph 18, an entity shall disclose the same information as required by paragraph 18 if those 
breaches permitted the lender to demand accelerated repayment (unless the breaches were remedied, 
or the terms of the loan were renegotiated, on or before the end of the reporting period).
Statement of comprehensive income
Items of income, expense, gains or losses
20 An entity shall disclose the following items of income, expense, gains or losses either in the statement 
of comprehensive income or in the notes:
(a) net gains or net losses on:
(i) financial assets or financial liabilities measured at fair v alue through profit or loss,
showing separately those on financial assets or financial liabilities designated as such
upon initial recognition or subsequently in accordance with par agraph 6.7.1 of
SLFRS 9, and those on financial assets or financial liabilities  that are mandatorily
measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance wit h SLFRS 9 (eg
financial liabilities that meet the definition of held for trad ing in SLFRS 9). For
financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profi t or loss, an entity shall
show separately the amount of gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive
income and the amount recognised in profit or loss.
(ii)–(iv) [deleted]
(v) financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(vi) financial assets measured at amortised cost.

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  57A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(vii) investments in equity instruments designated at fair value through other
comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9.
(viii) financial assets measured at fair value through other com prehensive income in
accordance with paragraph 4.1.2A of SLFRS 9, showing separately the amount of
gain or loss recognised in other comprehensive income during th e period and the
amount reclassified upon derecognition from accumulated other c omprehensive
income to profit or loss for the period.
(b) total interest revenue and total interest expense (calculate d using the effective interest method)
for financial assets that are measured at amortised cost or tha t are measured at fair value
through other comprehensive income in accordance with paragraph  4 . 1 . 2 A  o f  S L F R S  9
(showing these amounts separately); or financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value
through profit or loss.
(c) fee income and expense (other than amounts included in deter mining the effective interest
rate) arising from:
(i) financial assets and financial liabilities that are not at f air value through profit or loss;
and
(ii) trust and other fiduciary activities that result in the hol ding or investing of assets on
behalf of individuals, trusts, retirement benefit plans, and other institutions.
(d) [deleted]
(e) [deleted]
20A An entity shall disclose an analysis of the gain or loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive 
income arising from the derecognition of financial assets measu red at amortised cost, showing 
separately gains and losses arising from derecognition of those financial assets. This disclosure shall 
include the reasons for derecognising those financial assets.
Other disclosures
Accounting policies
21 In accordance with paragraph 117 of LKAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements , an entity 
discloses its significant accounting policies comprising the me asurement basis (or bases) used in 
preparing the financial statements and the other accounting pol icies used that are relevant to an 
understanding of the financial statements.
Hedge accounting
21A An entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragra phs 21B –24F for those risk exposures 
that an entity hedges and for which it elects to apply hedge accounting. Hedge accounting disclosures 
shall provide information about:
(a) an entity’s risk management strategy and how it is applied to manage risk;
(b) how the entity’s hedging activities may affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of its future
cash flows; and

<!-- page 58 -->

58A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(c) the effect that hedge accounting has had on the entity’ s statement of financial position,
statement of comprehensive income and statement of changes in equity.
21B An entity shall present the required disclosures in a single  note or separate section in its financial 
statements. However, an entity need not duplicate information t hat is already presented elsewhere, 
provided that the information is incorporated by cross-referenc e from the financial statements to 
some other statement, such as a management commentary or risk r eport, that is available to users of 
the financial statements on the same terms as the financial statements and at the same time. Without 
the information incorporated by cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.
21C When paragraphs 22A–24F require the entity to separate by risk category the information disclosed, 
the entity shall determine each risk category on the basis of t he risk exposures an entity decides to 
hedge and for which hedge accounting is applied. An entity shal l determine risk categories 
consistently for all hedge accounting disclosures.
21D To meet the objectives in paragraph 21A, an entity shall (ex cept as otherwise specified below) 
determine how much detail to disclose, how much emphasis to pla ce on different aspects of the 
disclosure requirements, the appropriate level of aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of 
financial statements need additional explanations to evaluate t he quantitative information disclosed. 
However, an entity shall use the same level of aggregation or d isaggregation it uses for disclosure 
requirements of related information in this SLFRS and SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.
The risk management strategy
22 [Deleted]
22A An entity shall explain its risk management strategy for eac h risk category of risk exposures that it 
decides to hedge and for which hedge accounting is applied. This explanation should enable users of 
financial statements to evaluate (for example):
(a) how each risk arises.
(b) how the entity manages each risk; this includes whether the entity hedges an item in its entirety
for all risks or hedges a risk component (or components) of an item and why.
(c) the extent of risk exposur es that the entity manages.
22B To meet the requirements in paragraph 22A, the information s hould include (but is not limited to) a 
description of:
(a) the hedging instruments that are used (and how they are used ) to hedge risk exposures;
(b) how the entity determines the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging
instrument for the purpose of assessing hedge effectiveness; and
(c) how the entity establishes the hedge ratio and what the sour ces of hedge ineffectiveness are.
22C When an entity designates a specific risk component as a hedged item (see paragraph 6.3.7 of SLFRS 
9) it shall provide, in addition to the disclosures required by paragraphs 22A and 22B, qualitative or
quantitative information about:
(a) how the entity determined the risk component that is designa ted as the hedged item (including
a description of the nature of the relationship between the ris k component and the item as a
whole); and

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  59A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(b) how the risk component relates to the item in its entirety ( for example, the designated risk
component historically covered on average 80 per cent of the changes in fair value of the item
as a whole).
The amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows
23 [Deleted]
23A Unless exempted by paragraph 23C, an entity shall disclose by risk category quantitative information 
to allow users of its financial statements to evaluate the terms and conditions of hedging instruments 
and how they affect the amount, timing and uncertainty of future cash flows of the entity.
23B To meet the requirement in paragraph 23A, an entity shall provide a breakdown that discloses:
D a profile of the timing of the nominal amount of the hedging instrument; and
E if applicable, the average price or rate (for example strike or forward prices etc) of the hedging
instrument.
23C In situations in which an entity frequently resets (ie disco ntinues and restarts) hedging relationships 
because both the hedging instrument and the hedged item frequen tly change (ie the entity uses a 
dynamic process in which both th e exposure and the hedging inst ruments used to manage that 
exposure do not remain the same for long—such as in the example in paragraph B6.5.24(b) of SLFRS 
9) the entity:
(a) is exempt from providing the disclosures required by paragra phs 23A and 23B.
(b) shall disclose:
(i) information about what the ultimate risk management strategy  is in relation to those
hedging relationships;
(ii) a description of how it reflects its risk management strate gy by using hedge accounting
and designating those particular hedging relationships; and
(iii) an indication of how frequently the hedging relationships are discontinued and restarted
as part of the entity’s process in relation to those hedging relationships.
23D An entity shall disclose by risk category a description of the sources of hedge ineffectiveness that are 
expected to affect the hedging relationship during its term.
23E If other sources of hedge ineffectiveness emerge in a hedgin g relationship, an entity shall disclose 
those sources by risk category and explain the resulting hedge ineffectiveness.
23F For cash flow hedges, an entity shall disclose a description of any forecast transaction for which 
hedge accounting had been used in the previous period, but which is no longer expected to occur.
The effects of hedge accounting on financial position and performance
24 [Deleted]
24A An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following  amounts related to items designated as 
hedging instruments separately by risk category for each type o f hedge (fair value hedge, cash flow 
hedge or hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation):

<!-- page 60 -->

60A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(a) the carrying amount of the hedging instruments (financial as sets separately from financial
liabilities);
(b) the line item in the statement of financial position that in cludes the hedging instrument;
(c) the change in fair value of the hedging instrument used as t he basis for recognising hedge
ineffectiveness for the period; and
(d) the nominal amounts (including quantities such as tonnes or cubic metres) of the hedging
instruments.
24B An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following amounts related to hedged items separately 
by risk category for the types of hedges as follows:
(a) for fair value hedges:
(i) the carrying amount of the hedged item recognised in the sta tement of financial position
(presenting assets separately from liabilities);
(ii) the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments on t he hedged item included
in the carrying amount of the hedged item recognised in the sta tement of financial
position (presenting assets separately from liabilities);
(iii) the line item in the statement of financial position that includes the hedged item;
(iv) the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis fo r recognising hedge
ineffectiveness for the period; and
(v) the accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remai ning in the statement of
financial position for any hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for hedging
gains and losses in accordance with paragraph 6.5.10 of SLFRS 9.
(b) for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation:
(i) the change in value of the hedged item used as the basis for  recognising hedge
ineffectiveness for the period (ie for cash flow hedges the cha nge in value used to
determine the recognised hedge ineffectiveness in accordance with paragraph 6.5.11(c)
of SLFRS 9);
(ii) the balances in the cash flow hedge reserve and the foreign  currency translation reserve
for continuing hedges that are accounted for in accordance with paragraphs 6.5.11 and
6.5.13(a) of SLFRS 9; and
(iii) the balances remaining in the cash flow hedge reserve and t h e  f o r e i g n  c u r r e n c y
translation reserve from any hedging relationships for which he dge accounting is no
longer applied.
24C An entity shall disclose, in a tabular format, the following  amounts separately by risk category for 
the types of hedges as follows:
(a) for fair value hedges:
(i) hedge ineffectiveness —ie the difference between the hedging gains or losses of the
hedging instrument and the hedged item —recognised in profit or loss (or other

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  61A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
comprehensive income for hedges of an equity instrument for whi ch an entity has 
elected to present changes in fair value in other comprehensive  income in accordance 
with paragraph 5.7.5 of SLFRS 9); and
(ii) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that  includes the recognised
hedge ineffectiveness.
(b) for cash flow hedges and hedges of a net investment in a for eign operation:
(i) hedging gains or losses of the reporting period that were re cognised in other
comprehensive income;
(ii) hedge ineffectiveness re cognised in profit or loss;
(iii) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income tha t includes the recognised
hedge ineffectiveness;
(iv) the amount reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve or  the foreign currency
translation reserve into profit or loss as a reclassification a djustment (see LKAS 1)
(differentiating between amounts for which hedge accounting had  p r e v i o u s l y  b e e n
used, but for which the hedged future cash flows are no longer expected to occur, and
amounts that have been transferred because the hedged item has affected profit or loss);
(v) the line item in the statement of comprehensive income that includes the reclassification
adjustment (see LKAS 1); and
(vi) for hedges of net positions, the hedging gains or losses re cognised in a separate line
item in the statement of comprehensive income (see paragraph 6.6.4 of SLFRS 9).
24D When the volume of hedging relationships to which the exempt ion in paragraph 23C applies is 
unrepresentative of normal volumes during the period (ie the volume at the reporting date does not 
reflect the volumes during the period) an entity shall disclose  that fact and the reason it believes the 
volumes are unrepresentative.
24E An entity shall provide a reconciliation of each component o f equity and an analysis of other 
comprehensive income in accordance with LKAS 1 that, taken together:
(a) differentiates, at a minimum, between the amounts that relat e to the disclosures in paragraph
24C(b)(i) and (b)(iv) as well as the amounts accounted for in a ccordance with paragraph
6.5.11(d)(i) and (d)(iii) of SLFRS 9;
(b) differentiates between the amounts associated with the time value of options that hedge
transaction related hedged items and the amounts associated wit h the time value of options
that hedge time-period related hedged items when an entity acco unts for the time value of an
option in accordance with paragraph 6.5.15 of SLFRS 9; and
(c) differentiates between the amounts associated with forward e lements of forward contracts and
the foreign currency basis spreads of financial instruments tha t hedge transaction related
hedged items, and the amounts associated with forward elements of forward contracts and the
foreign currency basis spreads of financial instruments that hedge time-period related hedged
items when an entity accounts for those amounts in accordance w ith paragraph 6.5.16 of
SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 62 -->

62A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
24F An entity shall disclose the information required in paragra ph 24E separately by risk category. This 
disaggregation by risk may be provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Option to designate a credit exposure as measured at fair value through profit or loss
24G If an entity designated a financial instrument, or a proportion of it, as measured at fair value through 
profit or loss because it uses a credit derivative to manage the credit risk of that financial instrument 
it shall disclose:
(a) for credit derivatives that have been used to manage the cre dit risk of financial instruments
designated as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph 6.7.1
of SLFRS 9, a reconciliation of each of the nominal amount and the fair value at the beginning
and at the end of the period;
(b) the gain or loss recognised in  profit or loss on designation  of a financial instrument, or a
proportion of it, as measured at fair value through profit or loss in accordance with paragraph
6.7.1 of SLFRS 9; and
(c) on discontinuation of measuring a financial instrument, or a  proportion of it, at fair value
through profit or loss, that financial instrument’s fair value that has become the new carrying
amount in accordance with paragraph 6.7.4 of SLFRS 9 and the re lated nominal or principal
amount (except for providing comparative information in accordance with LKAS 1, an entity
does not need to continue this disclosure in subsequent periods).
Fair value
25 Except as set out in paragraph 29, for each class of financia l assets and financial liabilities (see 
paragraph 6), an entity shall disclose the fair value of that class of assets and liabilities in a way that 
permits it to be compared with its carrying amount.
26 In disclosing fair values, an entity shall group financial ass ets and financial liabilities into classes, 
but shall offset them only to the extent that their carrying am ounts are offset in the statement of 
financial position.
27–
27B [Deleted]
28 In some cases, an entity does not recognise a gain or loss on  initial recognition of a financial asset or 
financial liability because the fair value is neither evidenced  by a quoted price in an active market 
for an identical asset or liability (ie a Level 1 input) nor based on a valuation technique that uses only 
data from observable markets (see paragraph B5.1.2A of SLFRS 9) . In such cases, the entity shall 
disclose by class of financial asset or financial liability:
(a) its accounting policy for recognising in profit or loss the difference between the fair value at
initial recognition and the transaction price to reflect a change in factors (including time) that
market participants would take into account when pricing the asset or liability (see paragraph
B5.1.2A(b) of SLFRS 9).
(b) the aggregate difference yet to be recognised in profit or l oss at the beginning and end of the
period and a reconciliation of changes in the balance of this difference.
(c) why the entity concluded that the transaction price was not the best evidence of fair value,
including a description of the evidence that supports the fair value.

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  63A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
29 Disclosures of fair value are not required:
(a) when the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fa ir value, for example, for
financial instruments such as short-term trade receivables and payables;
(b) [deleted]
(c) for a contract containing a discretionary participation feat ure (as described in SLFRS 4) if the
fair value of that feature cannot be measured reliably.
30 In the case described in paragraph 29(c), an entity shall dis close information to help users of the 
financial statements make their own judgements about the extent of possible differences between the 
carrying amount of those contracts and their fair value, including:
(a) the fact that fair value information has not been disclosed for these instruments because their
fair value cannot be measured reliably;
(b) a description of the financial instruments, their carrying a mount, and an explanation of why
fair value cannot be measured reliably;
(c) information about the market for the instruments;
(d) information about whether and how the entity intends to disp ose of the financial instruments;
and
(e) if financial instruments whose fair value previously could n ot be reliably measured are
derecognised, that fact, their carrying amount at the time of d erecognition, and the amount of
gain or loss recognised.
Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments
31 An entity shall disclose information that enables users of it s financial statements to evaluate 
the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments to which the entity is exposed 
at the end of the reporting period.
32 The disclosures required by paragraphs 33 –42 focus on the risks that arise from financial instruments 
and how they have been managed. These risks typically include, but are not limited to, credit risk, 
liquidity risk and market risk.
32A Providing qualitative disclosures in the context of quantita tive disclosures enables users to link 
related disclosures and hence form an overall picture of the na ture and extent of risks arising from 
financial instruments. The interaction between qualitative and quantitative disclosures contributes to 
disclosure of information in a way that better enables users to evaluate an entity’s exposure to risks.
Qualitative disclosures
33 For each type of risk arising from financial instruments, an entity shall disclose:
(a) the exposures to risk and how they arise;
(b) its objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk  and the methods used to measure
the risk; and
(c) any changes in (a) or (b) from the previous period.

<!-- page 64 -->

64A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
Quantitative disclosures
34 For each type of risk arising from financial instruments, an entity shall disclose:
(a) summary quantitative data about its exposure to that risk at the end of the reporting period.
This disclosure shall be based on the information provided inte rnally to key management
personnel of the entity (as defined in LKAS 24 Related Party Disclosures), for example the
entity’s board of directors or chief executive officer.
(b) the disclosures required by paragraphs 35A –42, to the extent not provided in accordance with
(a).
(c) concentrations of risk if not apparent from the disclosures made in accordance with (a) and
(b).
35 If the quantitative data disclosed as at the end of the repor ting period are unrepresentative of an 
entity’s exposure to risk during the period, an entity shall pr ovide further information that is 
representative.
Credit risk
Scope and objectives
35A An entity shall apply the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 35F–35N to financial instruments to 
which the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9 are applied. However:
(a) for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables , paragraph 35J(a) applies to those
trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables on which lifetime expected credit losses
are recognised in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9, if those financial assets are
modified while more than 30 days past due; and
(b) paragraph 35K(b) does not apply to lease receivables.
35B The credit risk disclosures made in accordance with paragrap hs 35F –35N shall enable users of 
financial statements to understand the effect of credit risk on  the amount, timing and uncertainty of 
future cash flows. To achieve this objective, credit risk disclosures shall provide:
(a) information about an entity’s credit risk management practices and how they relate to the
recognition and measurement of expected credit losses, includin g the methods, assumptions
and information used to measure expected credit losses;
(b) quantitative and qualitative information that allows users o f financial statements to evaluate
the amounts in the financial statements arising from expected credit losses, including changes
in the amount of expected credit losses and the reasons for those changes; and
(c) information about an entity’s credit risk exposure (ie the cred it risk inherent in an entity’s
financial assets and commitments to extend credit) including si gnificant credit risk
concentrations.
35C An entity need not duplicate information that is already pre sented elsewhere, provided that the 
information is incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements to other statements, such 
as a management commentary or risk report that is available to users of the financial statements on 
the same terms as the financial statements and at the same time. Without the information incorporated 
by cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  65A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
35D To meet the objectives in paragraph 35B, an entity shall (except as otherwise specified) consider how 
much detail to disclose, how much emphasis to place on differen t aspects of the disclosure 
requirements, the appropriate level of aggregation or disaggregation, and whether users of financial 
statements need additional explanations to evaluate the quantitative information disclosed.
35E If the disclosures provided in accordance with paragraphs 35 F–35N are insufficient to meet the 
objectives in paragraph 35B, an entity shall disclose additional information that is necessary to meet 
those objectives.
The credit risk management practices
35F An entity shall explain its credit risk management practices  and how they relate to the recognition 
and measurement of expected credit losses. To meet this objective an entity shall disclose information 
that enables users of financial statements to understand and evaluate:
(a) how an entity determined whether the credit risk of financia l instruments has increased
significantly since initial recognition, including, if and how:
(i) financial instruments are considered to have low credit risk  in accordance with
paragraph 5.5.10 of SLFRS 9, including the classes of financial instruments to which it
applies; and
(ii) the presumption in paragraph 5.5.11 of SLFRS 9, that there have been significant
increases in credit risk since initial recognition when financi al assets are more than 30
days past due, has been rebutted;
(b) an entity’s definitions of default, including the reasons for selecting those definitions;
(c) how the instruments were grouped if expected credit losses w ere measured on a collective
basis;
(d) how an entity determined that financial assets are credit-im paired financial assets;
(e) an entity’s write-off policy, including the indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of
recovery and information about the policy for financial assets that are written-off but are still
subject to enforcement activity; and
(f) how the requirements in paragraph 5.5.12 of SLFRS 9 for the modification of contractual cash
flows of financial assets have been applied, including how an entity:
(i) determines whether the credit risk on a financial asset that  has been modified while the
loss allowance was measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, has
improved to the extent that the loss allowance reverts to being  measured at an amount
equal to 12-month expected credit losses in accordance with paragraph 5.5.5 of SLFRS
9; and
(ii) monitors the extent to which the loss allowance on financial assets meeting the criteria
in (i) is subsequently remeasured at an amount equal to lifetim e expected credit losses
in accordance with paragraph 5.5.3 of SLFRS 9.
35G An entity shall explain the inputs, assumptions and estimati on techniques used to apply the 
requirements in Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9. For this purpose an entity shall disclose:
(a) the basis of inputs and assumptions and the estimation techn iques used to:

<!-- page 66 -->

66A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(i) measure the 12-month and lifetime expected credit losses;
(ii) determine whether the credit risk of financial instruments has increased significantly
since initial recognition; and
(iii) determine whether a financia l asset is a credit-impaired financial asset.
(b) how forward-looking information has been incorporated into t he determination of expected
credit losses, including the use of macroeconomic information; and
(c) changes in the estimation techniques or significant assumpti ons made during the reporting
period and the reasons for those changes.
Quantitative and qualitative information about amounts arising from expected 
credit losses
35H To explain the changes in the loss allowance and the reasons  for those changes, an entity shall 
provide, by class of financial instrument, a reconciliation fro m the opening balance to the closing 
balance of the loss allowance, in a table, showing separately the changes during the period for:
(a) the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to 12-month e xpected credit losses;
(b) the loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses for:
(i) financial instruments for which credit risk has increased si gnificantly since initial
recognition but that are not credit-impaired financial assets;
(ii) financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased
or originated credit-impaired); and
(iii) trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables fo r which the loss allowances are
measured in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9.
(c) financial assets that are purchased or originated credit-imp aired. In addition to the
reconciliation, an entity shall disclose the total amount of undiscounted expected credit losses
at initial recognition on financial assets initially recognised during the reporting period.
35I To enable users of financial statements to understand the ch anges in the loss allowance disclosed in 
accordance with paragraph 35H, an entity shall provide an explanation of how significant changes in 
the gross carrying amount of financial instruments during the p eriod contributed to changes in the 
loss allowance. The information shall be provided separately for financial instruments that represent 
the loss allowance as listed in paragraph 35H(a) –(c) and shall include relevant qualitative and 
quantitative information. Examples of changes in the gross carrying amount of financial instruments 
that contributed to the changes in the loss allowance may include:
(a) changes because of financial instruments originated or acqui red during the reporting period;
(b) the modification of contractual cash flows on financial asse ts that do not result in a
derecognition of those financial assets in accordance with SLFRS 9;
(c) changes because of financial instruments that were derecogni sed (including those that were
written-off) during the reporting period; and

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  67A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(d) changes arising from whether the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month
or lifetime expected credit losses.
35J To enable users of financial statements to understand the nat ure and effect of modifications of 
contractual cash flows on financial assets that have not result ed in derecognition and the effect of 
such modifications on the measurement of expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose:
(a) the amortised cost before the modification and the net modif ication gain or loss recognised for
financial assets for which the contractual cash flows have been modified during the reporting
period while they had a loss allowance measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit
losses; and
(b) the gross carrying amount at the end of the reporting period  of financial assets that have been
modified since initial recognition at a time when the loss allo wance was measured at an
amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses and for which the loss allowance has changed
during the reporting period to an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.
35K To enable users of financial statements to understand the ef fect of collateral and other credit 
enhancements on the amounts arising from expected credit losses, an entity shall disclose by class of 
financial instrument:
(a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to cred it risk at the end of the reporting
period without taking account of any collateral held or other c redit enhancements (eg netting
agreements that do not qualify for offset in accordance with LKAS 32).
(b) a narrative description of collateral held as security and o ther credit enhancements, including:
(i) a description of the nature and quality of the collateral held;
(ii) an explanation of any significant changes in the quality of  that collateral or credit
enhancements as a result of deterioration or changes in the col lateral policies of the
entity during the reporting period; and
(iii) information about financial instruments for which an entit y has not recognised a loss
allowance because of the collateral.
(c) quantitative information about the collateral held as securi ty and other credit enhancements
(for example, quantification of the extent to which collateral and other credit enhancements
mitigate credit risk) for financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date.
35L An entity shall disclose the contractual amount outstanding on financial assets that were written off 
during the reporting period and are still subject to enforcement activity.
Credit risk exposure
35M To enable users of financial statements to assess an entity’s c redit risk exposure and understand its 
significant credit risk concentrations, an entity shall disclos e, by credit risk rating grades, the gross 
carrying amount of financial assets and the exposure to credit risk on loan commitments and financial 
guarantee contracts. This information shall be provided separately for financial instruments:
(a) for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit
losses;

<!-- page 68 -->

68A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(b) for which the loss allowance is measured at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses
and that are:
(i) financial instruments for which credit risk has increased si gnificantly since initial
recognition but that are not credit-impaired financial assets;
(ii) financial assets that are credit-impaired at the reporting date (but that are not purchased
or originated credit-impaired); and
(iii) trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables fo r which the loss allowances are
measured in accordance with paragraph 5.5.15 of SLFRS 9.
(c) that are purchased or origin ated credit-impaired financial assets.
35N For trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables  to which an entity applies paragraph 
5.5.15 of SLFRS 9, the information provided in accordance with paragraph 35M may be based on a 
provision matrix (see paragraph B5.5.35 of SLFRS 9).
36 For all financial instruments within the scope of this SLFRS,  but to which the impairment 
requirements in SLFRS 9 are not applied, an entity shall disclose by class of financial instrument:
(a) the amount that best represents its maximum exposure to cred it risk at the end of the reporting
period without taking account of any collateral held or other c redit enhancements (eg netting
agreements that do not quality for offset in accordance with LK AS 32); this disclosure is not
required for financial instruments whose carrying amount best r epresents the maximum
exposure to credit risk.
(b) a description of collateral held as security and other credi t enhancements, and their financial
effect (eg quantification of the extent to which collateral and  other credit enhancements
mitigate credit risk) in respect of the amount that best repres ents the maximum exposure to
credit risk (whether disclosed in accordance with (a) or represented by the carrying amount of
a financial instrument).
(c) [deleted]
(d) [deleted]
37 [Deleted]
Collateral and other credit enhancements obtained
38 When an entity obtains financial or non-financial assets duri ng the period by taking possession of 
collateral it holds as security or calling on other credit enhancements (eg guarantees), and such assets 
meet the recognition criteria in other SLFRSs, an entity shall disclose for such assets held at the 
reporting date:
(a) the nature and carrying amount of the assets; and
(b) when the assets are not readily convertible into cash, its p olicies for disposing of such assets
or for using them in its operations.
Liquidity risk
39 An entity shall disclose:

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  69A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(a) a maturity analysis for non-derivative financial liabilities (including issued financial guarantee
contracts) that shows the remaining contractual maturities.
(b) a maturity analysis for derivative financial liabilities. Th e maturity analysis shall include the
remaining contractual maturities for those derivative financial liabilities for which contractual
maturities are essential for an understanding of the timing of the cash flows (see paragraph
B11B).
(c) a description of how it manages the liquidity risk inherent in (a) and (b).
Market risk
Sensitivity analysis
40 Unless an entity complies with paragraph 41, it shall disclos e:
(a) a sensitivity analysis for each type of market risk to which  the entity is exposed at the end of
the reporting period, showing how profit or loss and equity wou ld have been affected by
changes in the relevant risk variable that were reasonably possible at that date;
(b) the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivit y analysis; and
(c) changes from the previous period in the methods and assumpti ons used, and the reasons for
such changes.
41 If an entity prepares a sensitivity analysis, such as value-a t-risk, that reflects interdependencies 
between risk variables (eg interest rates and exchange rates) a nd uses it to manage financial risks, it
may use that sensitivity analysis in place of the analysis spec ified in paragraph 40. The entity shall 
also disclose:
(a) an explanation of the method used in preparing such a sensit ivity analysis, and of the main
parameters and assumptions underlying the data provided; and
(b) an explanation of the objective of the method used and of li mitations that may result in the
information not fully reflecting the fair value of the assets and liabilities involved.
Other market risk disclosures
42 When the sensitivity analyses disclosed in accordance with pa ragraph 40 or 41 are unrepresentative 
of a risk inherent in a financial instrument (for example becau se the year-end exposure does not 
reflect the exposure during the year), the entity shall disclos e that fact and the reason it believes the 
sensitivity analyses are unrepresentative.
Transfers of financial assets
42A The disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42B –42H relating to transfers of financial assets 
supplement the other disclosure requirements of this SLFRS. An entity shall present the disclosures 
required by paragraphs 42B–42H in a single note in its financial statements. An entity sha ll provide 
the required disclosures for all transferred financial assets t hat are not derecognised and for any 
continuing involvement in a transferred asset, existing at the reporting date, irrespective of when the 
related transfer transaction occurred. For the purposes of appl y ing the disclosure requirements in 
those paragraphs, an entity transfers all or a part of a financ ial asset (the transferred financial asset) 
if, and only if, it either:
(a) transfers the contractual rig hts to receive the cash flows of that financial asset; or

<!-- page 70 -->

70A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(b) retains the contractual rights to receive the cash flows of that financial asset, but assumes a
contractual obligation to pay the cash flows to one or more recipients in an arrangement.
42B An entity shall disclose information that enables users of its financial statements:
(a) to understand the relationship between transferred financial  assets that are not derecognised in
their entirety and the associated liabilities; and
(b) to evaluate the nature of, and risks associated with, the entit y’s continuing involvement in
derecognised financial assets.
42C For the purposes of applying the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E –42H, an entity has 
continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset if, as part of the transfer, the entity retains any 
of the contractual rights or obligations inherent in the transf erred financial asset or obtains any new 
contractual rights or obligations relating to the transferred f inancial asset. For the purposes of 
applying the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E –42H, the following do not constitute 
continuing involvement:
(a) normal representations and warranties relating to fraudulent  transfer and concepts of
reasonableness, good faith and fair dealings that could invalidate a transfer as a result of legal
action;
(b) forward, option and other contracts to reacquire the transfe rred financial asset for which the
contract price (or exercise price) is the fair value of the transferred financial asset; or
(c) an arrangement whereby an entity retains the contractual rig hts to receive the cash flows of a
financial asset but assumes a contractual obligation to pay the  cash flows to one or more
entities and the conditions in paragraph 3.2.5(a)–(c) of SLFRS 9 are met.
Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their entirety
42D An entity may have transferred financial assets in such a wa y that part or all of the transferred 
financial assets do not qualify for derecognition. To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(a), 
the entity shall disclose at each reporting date for each class  of transferred financial assets that are 
not derecognised in their entirety:
(a) the nature of the transferred assets.
(b) the nature of the risks and rewards of ownership to which th e entity is exposed.
(c) a description of the nature of the relationship between the transferred assets and the associated
liabilities, including restrictions arising from the transfer o n the reporting entity’s use of the
transferred assets.
(d) when the counterparty (counterparties) to the associated lia bilities has (have) recourse only to
the transferred assets, a schedule that sets out the fair value  of the transferred assets, the fair
value of the associated liabilities and the net position (the difference between the fair value of
the transferred assets and the associated liabilities).
(e) when the entity continues to recognise all of the transferre d assets, the carrying amounts of
the transferred assets and the associated liabilities.
(f) when the entity continues to recognise the assets to the ext ent of its continuing involvement
(see paragraphs 3.2.6(c)(ii) and 3.2.16 of SLFRS 9), the total carrying amount of the original

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  71A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
assets before the transfer, the carrying amount of the assets t hat the entity continues to 
recognise, and the carrying amount of the associated liabilities.
Transferred financial assets that are derecognised in their entirety
42E To meet the objectives set out in paragraph 42B(b), when an entity derecognises transferred financial 
assets in their entirety (see paragraph 3.2.6(a) and (c)(i) of SLFRS 9) but has continuing involvement 
in them, the entity shall disclose, as a minimum, for each type  of continuing involvement at each 
reporting date:
(a) the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities that are r ecognised in the entity’s statement of
financial position and represent the entity’s continuing involv ement in the derecognised
financial assets, and the line items in which the carrying amount of those assets and liabilities
are recognised.
(b) the fair value of the assets and liabilities that represent the entity’s continuing involvement in
the derecognised financial assets.
(c) the amount that best represents the entity’s maximum exposure t o loss from its continuing
involvement in the derecognised financial assets, and information showing how the maximum
exposure to loss is determined.
(d) the undiscounted cash outflows that would or may be required  to repurchase derecognised
financial assets (eg the strike price in an option agreement) o r other amounts payable to the
transferee in respect of the transferred assets. If the cash ou tflow is variable then the amount
disclosed should be based on the conditions that exist at each reporting date.
(e) a maturity analysis of the undi scounted cash outflows that w ould or may be required to
repurchase the derecognised financial assets or other amounts p ayable to the transferee in
respect of the transferred assets, showing the remaining contra ctual maturities of the entity’s
continuing involvement.
(f) qualitative information that explains and supports the quant itative disclosures required in (a)–
(e).
42F An entity may aggregate the information required by paragraph 42E in respect of a particular asset if 
the entity has more than one type of continuing involvement in that derecognised financial asset, and 
report it under one type of continuing involvement.
42G In addition, an entity shall disclose for each type of continuing involvement:
(a) the gain or loss recognised at the date of transfer of the a ssets.
(b) income and expenses recognised, both in the reporting period  and cumulatively, from the
entity’s continuing involvement in the derecognised financial assets (eg fair value changes in
derivative instruments).
(c) if the total amount of proceeds from transfer activity (that  qualifies for derecognition) in a
reporting period is not evenly distributed throughout the repor ting period (eg if a substantial
proportion of the total amount of transfer activity takes place in the closing days of a reporting
period):
(i) when the greatest transfer activity took place within that re porting period (eg the last
five days before the end of the reporting period),

<!-- page 72 -->

72A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(ii) the amount (eg related gains or losses) recognised from tra nsfer activity in that part of
the reporting period, and
(iii) the total amount of proceeds from transfer activity in tha t part of the reporting period.
An entity shall provide this information for each period for wh ich a statement of comprehensive 
income is presented.
Supplementary information
42H An entity shall disclose any additional information that it considers necessary to meet the disclosure 
objectives in paragraph 42B.
Initial application of SLFRS 9
42I In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, the entity shall disclose 
the following information for each class of financial assets an d financial liabilities as at the date of 
initial application:
(a) the original measurement category and carrying amount determ ined in accordance with LKAS
39 or in accordance with a pre vious version of SLFRS 9 (if the entity’s chosen approach to
applying SLFRS 9 involves more than one date of initial applica tion for different
requirements);
(b) the new measurement category and carrying amount determined in accordance with SLFRS
9;
(c) the amount of any financial assets and financial liabilities  in the statement of financial position
that were previously designated as measured at fair value throu gh profit or loss but are no
longer so designated, distinguishing between those that SLFRS 9  requires an entity to
reclassify and those that an entity elects to reclassify at the date of initial application.
I n  a c c o r d a n c e  w i t h  p a r a g r a p h  7 . 2 . 2  o f  S L F R S  9 ,  d e p e n d i n g  o n  t h e entity’s chosen approach to 
applying SLFRS 9, the transition can involve more than one date of initial application. Therefore this 
paragraph may result in disclosure on more than one date of initial application. An entity shall present 
these quantitative disclosures in a table unless another format is more appropriate.
42J In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of SLFRS 9, an entity shall disclose 
qualitative information to enable users to understand:
(a) how it applied the classification requirements in SLFRS 9 to those financial assets whose
classification has changed as a result of applying SLFRS 9.
(b) the reasons for any designation or de-designation of financi al assets or financial liabilities as
measured at fair value through profit or loss at the date of initial application.
I n  a c c o r d a n c e  w i t h  p a r a g r a p h  7 . 2 . 2  o f  S L F R S  9 ,  d e p e n d i n g  o n  t h e entity’s chosen approach to 
applying SLFRS 9, the transition can involve more than one date of initial application. Therefore this 
paragraph may result in disclosure on more than one date of initial application.
42K In the reporting period that an entity first applies the cla ssification and measurement requirements 
for financial assets in SLFRS 9 (ie when the entity transitions from LKAS 39 to SLFRS 9 for financial 
assets), it shall present the disclosures set out in paragraphs  42L–42O of this SLFRS as required by 
paragraph 7.2.15 of SLFRS 9.

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  73A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
42L When required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the  changes in the classifications of 
financial assets and financial liabilities as at the date of in itial application of SLFRS 9, showing 
separately:
(a) the changes in the carrying amounts on the basis of their me asurement categories in
accordance with LKAS 39 (ie not resulting from a change in meas urement attribute on
transition to SLFRS 9); and
(b) the changes in the carrying amounts arising from a change in  measurement attribute on
transition to SLFRS 9.
The disclosures in this paragraph need not be made after the an nual reporting period in which the 
entity initially applies the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 
9.
42M When required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the  following for financial assets and 
financial liabilities that have been reclassified so that they are measured at amortised cost and, in the 
case of financial assets, that have been reclassified out of fair value through profit or loss so that they 
are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, as a result of the transition to SLFRS 
9:
(a) the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilit ies at the end of the reporting period;
and
(b) the fair value gain or loss that would have been recognised in profit or loss or other
comprehensive income during the reporting period if the financial assets or financial liabilities
had not been reclassified.
The disclosures in this paragraph need not be made after the an nual reporting period in which the 
entity initially applies the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 
9.
42N When required by paragraph 42K, an entity shall disclose the  following for financial assets and 
financial liabilities that have been reclassified out of the fair value through profit or loss category as 
a result of the transition to SLFRS 9:
(a) the effective interest rate determined on the date of initia l application; and
(b) the interest revenue or expense recognised.
If an entity treats the fair value of a financial asset or a fi nancial liability as the new gross carrying 
amount at the date of initial application (see paragraph 7.2.11  of SLFRS 9), the disclosures in this 
paragraph shall be made for each reporting period until derecog nition. Otherwise, the disclosures in 
this paragraph need not be made after the annual reporting period in which the entity initially applies 
the classification and measurement requirements for financial assets in SLFRS 9.
42O When an entity presents the disclosures set out in paragraph s 42K–42N, those disclosures, and the 
disclosures in paragraph 25 of this SLFRS, must permit reconciliation between:
(a) the measurement categories presented in accordance with LKAS  39 and SLFRS 9; and
(b) the class of financial instrument
as at the date of initial application.

<!-- page 74 -->

74A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
42P On the date of initial application of Section 5.5 of SLFRS 9 , an entity is required to disclose 
information that would permit the reconciliation of the ending impairment allowances in accordance 
with LKAS 39 and the provisions in accordance with LKAS 37 to th e opening loss allowances 
determined in accordance with SLFRS 9. For financial assets, th is disclosure shall be provided by 
the related financial assets’ measurement categories in accordance with LKAS 39 and SLFRS 9, and 
shall show separately the effect of the changes in the measurement category on the loss allowance at 
that date.
42Q In the reporting period that includes the date of initial ap plication of SLFRS 9, an entity is not 
required to disclose the line item amounts that would have been  reported in accordance with the 
classification and measurement requirements (which includes the  requirements related to amortised 
cost measurement of financial assets and impairment in Sections 5.4 and 5.5 of SLFRS 9) of:
(a) SLFRS 9 for prior periods; and
(b) LKAS 39 for the current period.
42R In accordance with paragraph 7.2.4 of SLFRS 9, if it is impr acticable (as defined in LKAS 8) at the 
date of initial application of SLFRS 9 for an entity to assess a modified time value of money element 
in accordance with paragraphs B4.1.9B –B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 based on the facts and circumstances 
that existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset, an entity shall assess the contractual cash 
flow characteristics of that financial asset based on the facts  and circumstances that existed at the 
initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account the requirements related to the 
modification of the time value of money element in paragraphs B 4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9. An 
entity shall disclose the carrying amount at the reporting date of the financial assets whose contractual 
cash flow characteristics have been assessed based on the facts and circumstances that existed at the 
initial recognition of the financial asset without taking into account the requirements related to the 
modification of the time value of money element in paragraphs B 4.1.9B–B4.1.9D of SLFRS 9 until 
those financial assets are derecognised.
42S In accordance with paragraph 7.2.5 of SLFRS 9, if it is impr acticable (as defined in LKAS 8) at the 
date of initial application for an entity to assess whether the  fair value of a prepayment feature was 
insignificant in accordance with paragraphs B4.1.12(c) of SLFRS  9 based on the facts and 
circumstances that existed at the initial recognition of the fi nancial asset, an entity shall assess the 
contractual cash flow characteristics of that financial asset based on the facts and circumstances that 
existed at the initial recognition of the financial asset witho ut taking into account the exception for 
prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of SLFRS 9. An entity shall disclose the carrying amount 
at the reporting date of the financial assets whose contractual  cash flow characteristics have been 
assessed based on the facts and circumstances that existed at t he initial recognition of the financial 
asset without taking into account the exception for prepayment features in paragraph B4.1.12 of 
SLFRS 9 until those financial assets are derecognised.
Effective date and transition
43 An entity shall apply this SLFRS for annual periods beginning  on or after 1 January 2012. Earlier 
application is encouraged. If an entity applies this SLFRS for an earlier period, it shall disclose that 
fact.
44 -
44N [Deleted]

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  75A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
44O SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements, issued in April 2013, amended paragraph 3. An entity 
shall apply that amendment when it applies SLFRS 10 and SLFRS 11.
44P SLFRS 13, issued in April 2013, amended paragraphs 3, 28 and  29 and Appendix A and deleted 
paragraphs 27–27B. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFRS 13.
44Q Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in 2014, 
amended paragraph 27B. An entity shall apply that amendment when it applies LKAS 1 as amended 
in 2014.
44R Disclosures—Offsetting Financial Assets  and Financial Liabilities (Amendments to SLFRS 7), 
issued in 2014, added paragraphs 13A –13F and B40–B53. An entity shall apply those amendments 
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. An ent ity shall provide the disclosures 
required by those amendments retrospectively.
44S–
44Y [Deleted]
44Z SLFRS 9, as issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 2–5, 8–11, 14, 20, 28–30, 36, 42C–42E, 
Appendix A and paragraphs B1, B5, B9, B10, B22 and B27, deleted paragraphs 12, 12A, 16, 22–24, 
37, 44E, 44F, 44H–44J, 44N, 44S–44W, 44Y, B4 and Appendix D and added paragraphs 5A, 10A, 
11A, 11B, 12B –12D, 16A, 20A, 21A –21D, 22A –22C, 23A–23F, 24A –24G, 35A –35N, 42I –42S, 
44ZA and B8A –B8J. An entity shall apply those amendments when it applies SLFR S 9. Those 
amendments need not be applied to comparative information provided for periods before the date of 
initial application of SLFRS 9.
44ZA In accordance with paragraph 7.1.2 of SLFRS 9, for annual reporting periods prior to 1 January 2018, 
an entity may elect to early apply only the requirements for th e presentation of gains and losses on 
financial liabilities designated as at fair value through profi t or loss in paragraphs 5.7.1(c), 5.7.7 –
5.7.9, 7.2.14 and B5.7.5–B5.7.20 of SLFRS 9 without applying the other requirements in S LFRS 9. 
If an entity elects to apply only those paragraphs of SLFRS 9, it shall disclose that fact and provide 
on an ongoing basis the related disclosures set out in paragraphs 10–11 of this SLFRS.
44AA Adoption of IASB’s Annual Improvements to SLFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle, issued in September 2014, 
amended paragraphs 44R and B30 and added paragraph B30A. An ent ity shall apply those 
amendments retrospectively in acc ordance with LKAS 8 Accounting  Policies, Changes in 
Accounting Estimates and Errors for annual periods beginning on  or after 1 January 2016, except 
that an entity need not apply the amendments to paragraphs B30 and B30A for any period presented 
that begins before the annual period for which the entity first  applies those amendments. Earlier 
application of the amendments to p aragraphs 44R, B30 and B30A i s permitted. If an entity applies 
those amendments for an earlier period it shall disclose that fact.
44BB Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1), issued in December 2014, amended paragraphs 21 
and B5. An entity shall apply those amendments for annual perio ds beginning on or after 1 January 
2016. Earlier application of those amendments is permitted.
44CC [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in this 
edition.]
44DD [This paragraph refers to amendments that are not yet effective, and is therefore not included in this 
edition.]

<!-- page 76 -->

76A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
Appendix A
Defined terms
This appendix is an integral part of the SLFRS.
credit risk The risk that one party to a financial instrument will cause a financial loss 
for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation.
credit risk rating 
grades
Rating of credit risk based on the risk of a default occurring on the financial 
instrument.
currency risk The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
interest rate risk The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
liquidity risk The risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting ob ligations 
associated with financial liabilities that are settled by deliv ering cash or 
another financial asset.
loans payable Loans payable are financial liabilities, other than short-term trade payables 
on normal credit terms.
market risk The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market risk comp rises three 
types of risk: currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk.
other price risk The risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will 
fluctuate because of changes in market prices (other than those arising from 
interest rate risk or currency risk), whether those changes are caused by 
factors specific to the individual financial instrument or its issuer or by 
factors affecting all similar financial instruments traded in the market.
The following terms are defined in paragraph 11 of LKAS 32, par agraph 9 of LKAS 39, Appendix A of 
SLFRS 9 or Appendix A of SLFRS 13 and are used in this SLFRS with the meaning specified in LKAS 32, 
LKAS 39, SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 13.
• amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability
• contract asset
• credit-impaired financial assets
• derecognition
• derivative
• dividends
• effective interest method
• equity instrument
• expected credit losses

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  77A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
• fair value
• financial asset
• financial guarantee contract
• financial instrument
• financial liability
• financial liability at fair value through profit or loss
• forecast transaction
• gross carrying amount of a financial asset
• hedging instrument
• held for trading
• impairment gains or losses
• loss allowance
• past due
• purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
• reclassification date
• regular way purchase or sale.
Appendix B
Application guidance
This appendix is an integral part of the SLFRS.
Classes of financial instruments and level of disclosure (paragraph 6)
B1 Paragraph 6 requires an entity to group financial instruments  into classes that are appropriate to the
nature of the information disclosed and that take into account the characteristics of those financial 
instruments. The classes described in paragraph 6 are determined by the entity and are, thus, distinct 
from the categories of financial instruments specified in SLFRS  9 (which determine how financial 
instruments are measured and where changes in fair value are recognised).
B2 In determining classes of financial instrument, an entity sha ll, at a minimum:
(a) distinguish instruments measured at amortised cost from thos e measured at fair value.
(b) treat as a separate class or classes those financial instrum ents outside the scope of this SLFRS.
B3 An entity decides, in the light of its circumstances, how muc h detail it provides to satisfy the 
requirements of this SLFRS, how much emphasis it places on diff erent aspects of the requirements 
and how it aggregates information to display the overall picture without combining information with 
different characteristics. It is necessary to strike a balance between overburdening financial 
statements with excessive detail that may not assist users of f inancial statements and obscuring 

<!-- page 78 -->

78A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
important information as a result of too much aggregation. For example, an entity shall not obscure 
important information by including it among a large amount of i nsignificant detail. Similarly, an 
entity shall not disclose information that is so aggregated tha t it obscures important differences 
between individual transactions or associated risks.
B4 [Deleted]
Other disclosure – accounting policies (paragraph 21)
B5 Paragraph 21 requires disclosure of the measurement basis (or  bases) used in preparing the financial 
statements and the other accounting policies used that are relevant to an understanding of the financial 
statements. For financial instruments, such disclosure may include:
(a) for financial liabilities designated as at fair value throug h profit or loss:
(i) the nature of the financial liabilities the entity has desig nated as at fair value through
profit or loss;
(ii) the criteria for so designating such financial liabilities on initial recognition; and
(iii) how the entity has satisfied the conditions in paragraph 4 .2.2 of SLFRS 9 for such
designation.
(aa) for financial assets designated as measured at fair value t hrough profit or loss:
(i) the nature of the financial assets the entity has designated  as measured at fair value
through profit or loss; and
(ii) how the entity has satisfied the criteria in paragraph 4.1. 5  o f  S L F R S  9  f o r  s u c h
designation.
(b) [deleted]
(c) whether regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are accounted for at trade date or
at settlement date (see paragraph 3.1.2 of SLFRS 9).
(d) [deleted]
(e) how net gains or net losses on each category of financial in strument are determined (see
paragraph 20(a)), for example, whether the net gains or net losses on items at fair value through
profit or loss include interest or dividend income.
(f) [deleted]
(g) [deleted]
Paragraph 122 of LKAS 1 also requires entities to disclose, alo ng with its significant accounting 
policies or other notes, the judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that management has 
made in the process of applying the entity’s accounting policie s and that have the most significant 
effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05''01  79A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
Nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments 
(paragraphs 31–42)
B6 The disclosures required by paragraphs 31 –42 shall be either given in the financial statements or 
incorporated by cross-reference from the financial statements t o some other statement, such as a 
management commentary or risk report, that is available to user s of the financial statements on the 
same terms as the financial statements and at the same time. Wi thout the information incorporated 
by cross-reference, the financial statements are incomplete.
Quantitative disclosures (paragraph 34)
B7 Paragraph 34(a) requires disclosures of summary quantitative data about an entity’s exposure to risks 
based on the information provided internally to key management personnel of the entity. When an 
entity uses several methods to manage a risk exposure, the entity shall disclose information using the 
method or methods that provide the most relevant and reliable i nformation. LKAS 8 Accounting 
Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors discusses relevance and reliability.
B8 Paragraph 34(c) requires disclosures about concentrations of risk. Concentrations of risk arise from 
financial instruments that have similar characteristics and are  affected similarly by changes in 
economic or other conditions. The identification of concentrations of risk requires judgement taking 
into account the circumstances of the entity. Disclosure of concentrations of risk shall include:
(a) a description of how management determines concentrations;
(b) a description of the shared characteristic that identifies e ach concentration (eg counterparty,
geographical area, currency or market); and
(c) the amount of the risk exposure associated with all financia l instruments sharing that
characteristic.
Credit risk management practices (paragraphs 35F–35G)
B8A Paragraph 35F(b) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity has defined default for 
different financial instruments and the reasons for selecting t hose definitions. In accordance with 
paragraph 5.5.9 of SLFRS 9, the determination of whether lifeti me expected credit losses should be 
recognised is based on the increase in the risk of a default oc curring since initial recognition. 
Information about an entity’s definitions of default that will assist users of financial statements in 
understanding how an entity has applied the expected credit los s requirements in SLFRS 9 may 
include:
(a) the qualitative and quantitative factors considered in defin ing default;
(b) whether different definitions have been applied to different  types of financial instruments; and
(c) assumptions about the cure rate (ie the number of financial assets that return to a performing
status) after a default occurred on the financial asset.
B8B To assist users of financial statements in evaluating an entity ’s restructuring and modification 
policies, paragraph 35F(f)(ii) requires the disclosure of information about how an entity monitors the 
extent to which the loss allowance on financial assets previous ly disclosed in accordance with 
paragraph 35F(f)(i) are subsequently measured at an amount equa l to lifetime expected credit losses 
in accordance with paragraph 5.5.3 of SLFRS 9. Quantitative inf ormation that will assist users in 

<!-- page 80 -->

80A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
understanding the subsequent increase in credit risk of modifie d financial assets may include 
information about modified financial assets meeting the criteria in paragraph 35F(f)(i) for which the 
loss allowance has reverted to being measured at an amount equa l to lifetime expected credit losses 
(ie a deterioration rate).
B8C Paragraph 35G(a) requires the disclosure of information abou t the basis of inputs and assumptions 
and the estimation techniques used to apply the impairment requ irements in SLFRS 9. An entity’s 
assumptions and inputs used to measure expected credit losses o r determine the extent of increases 
in credit risk since initial recognition may include information  obtained from internal historical 
information or rating reports and assumptions about the expecte d life of financial instruments and 
the timing of the sale of collateral.
Changes in the loss allowance (paragraph 35H)
B8D In accordance with paragraph 35H, an entity is required to explain the reasons for the changes in the 
loss allowance during the period. In addition to the reconcilia tion from the opening balance to the 
closing balance of the loss allowance, it may be necessary to p rovide a narrative explanation of the 
changes. This narrative explanation may include an analysis of the reasons for changes in the loss 
allowance during the period, including:
(a) the portfolio composition;
(b) the volume of financial instruments purchased or originated; and
(c) the severity of the expected credit losses.
B8E For loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts the l oss allowance is recognised as a 
provision. An entity should disclose information about the changes in the loss allowance for financial 
assets separately from those for loan commitments and financial  guarantee contracts. However, if a 
financial instrument includes both a loan (ie financial asset) and an undrawn commitment (ie loan 
commitment) component and the entity cannot separately identify  the expected credit losses on the 
loan commitment component from those on the financial asset component, the expected credit losses 
on the loan commitment should be recognised together with the loss allowance for the financial asset. 
To the extent that the combined expected credit losses exceed t he gross carrying amount of the 
financial asset, the expected credit losses should be recognised as a provision.
Collateral (paragraph 35K)
B8F Paragraph 35K requires the disclosure of information that wi ll enable users of financial statements 
to understand the effect of collateral and other credit enhancements on the amount of expected credit 
losses. An entity is neither required to disclose information about the fair value of collateral and other 
credit enhancements nor is it required to quantify the exact va lue of the collateral that was included 
in the calculation of expected credit losses (ie the loss given default).
B8G A narrative description of collateral and its effect on amounts of expected credit losses might include 
information about:
(a) the main types of collateral held as security and other cred it enhancements (examples of the
latter being guarantees, credit derivatives and netting agreements that do not qualify for offset
in accordance with LKAS 32);
(b) the volume of collateral held and other credit enhancements and its significance in terms of
the loss allowance;

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  81A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
(c) the policies and processes for valuing and managing collater al and other credit enhancements;
(d) the main types of counterparties to collateral and other cre dit enhancements and their
creditworthiness; and
(e) information about risk concentrations within the collateral and other credit enhancements.
Credit risk exposure (paragraphs 35M–35N)
B8H Paragraph 35M requires the disclosure of information about an e ntity’s credit risk exposure and 
significant concentrations of credit risk at the reporting date . A concentration of credit risk exists 
when a number of counterparties are located in a geographical re gion or are engaged in similar 
activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual 
obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions. An entity should 
provide information that enables users of financial statements to understand whether there are groups 
or portfolios of financial instruments with particular features that could affect a large portion of that 
group of financial instruments such as concentration to particu lar risks. This could include, for 
example, loan-to-value groupings, geographical, industry or issuer-type concentrations.
B8I The number of credit risk rating grades used to disclose the information in accordance with paragraph 
35M shall be consistent with the number that the entity reports  to key management personnel for 
credit risk management purposes. If past due information is the  only borrower-specific information 
available and an entity uses past due information to assess whe ther credit risk has increased 
significantly since initial recognition in accordance with paragraph 5.5.11 of SLFRS 9, an entity shall 
provide an analysis by past due status for those financial assets.
B8J When an entity has measured expected credit losses on a coll ective basis, the entity may not be able 
to allocate the gross carrying amount of individual financial a ssets or the exposure to credit risk on 
loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts to the credit risk rating grades for which lifetime 
expected credit losses are recognised. In that case, an entity should apply the requirement in 
paragraph 35M to those financial instruments that can be direct ly allocated to a credit risk rating 
grade and disclose separately the gross carrying amount of fina ncial instruments for which lifetime 
expected credit losses have been measured on a collective basis.
Maximum credit risk exposure (paragraph 36(a))
B9 Paragraphs 35K( a) and 36(a) require disclosure of the amount that best represe nts the entity’s 
maximum exposure to credit risk. For a financial asset, this is  typically the gross carrying amount, 
net of:
(a) any amounts offset in accordance with LKAS 32; and
(b) any loss allowance recognised in accordance with SLFRS 9.
B10 Activities that give rise to credit risk and the associated maximum exposure to credit risk include, 
but are not limited to:
(a) granting loans to customers and placing deposits with other entities. In these cases, the
maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of the related financial assets.
(b) entering into derivative cont racts, eg foreign exchange contracts, interest rate swaps and credit
derivatives. When the resulting asset is measured at fair value, the maximum exposure to credit
risk at the end of the reporting period will equal the carrying amount.

<!-- page 82 -->

82A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(c) granting financial guarantees. In this case, the maximum exp osure to credit risk is the
maximum amount the entity could have to pay if the guarantee is  called on, which may be
significantly greater than the amount recognised as a liability.
(d) making a loan commitment that is irrevocable over the life of the facility or is revocable only
in response to a material adverse change. If the issuer cannot settle the loan commitment net
in cash or another financial instrument, the maximum credit exposure is the full amount of the
commitment. This is because it is uncertain whether the amount of any undrawn portion may
be drawn upon in the future. This may be significantly greater than the amount recognised as
a liability.
Quantitative liquidity risk disclosures (paragraphs 34(a) and 39(a) and (b))
B10A In accordance with paragraph 34(a) an entity discloses summary quantitative data about its exposure 
to liquidity risk on the basis of the information provided internally to key management personnel. An 
entity shall explain how those data are determined. If the outflows of cash (or another financial asset) 
included in those data could either:
(a) occur significantly earlier  than indicated in the data, or
(b) be for significantly different amounts from those indicated in the data (eg for a derivative that
is included in the data on a net settlement basis but for which  the counterparty has the option
to require gross settlement),
the entity shall state that fact and provide quantitative infor mation that enables users of its financial 
statements to evaluate the extent of this risk unless that info rmation is included in the contractual 
maturity analyses required by paragraph 39(a) or (b).
B11 In preparing the maturity analyses required by paragraph 39( a) and (b), an entity uses its judgement 
to determine an appropriate number of time bands. For example, an entity might determine that the 
following time bands are appropriate:
(a) not later than one month;
(b) later than one month and not later than three months;
(c) later than three months and not later than one year; and
(d) later than one year and n ot later than five years.
B11A In complying with paragraph 39(a) and (b), an entity shall not separate an embedded derivative from 
a hybrid (combined) financial instrument. For such an instrumen t, an entity shall apply paragraph 
39(a).
B11B Paragraph 39(b) requires an entity to disclose a quantitative maturity analysis for derivative financial 
liabilities that shows remaining contractual maturities if the contractual maturities are essential for 
an understanding of the timing of the cash flows. For example, this would be the case for:
(a) an interest rate swap with a remaining maturity of five years in a cash flow hedge of a variable
rate financial asset or liability.
(b) all loan commitments.

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  83A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
B11C Paragraph 39(a) and (b) requires an entity to disclose matu rity analyses for financial liabilities that 
show the remaining contractual maturities for some financial liabilities. In this disclosure:
(a) when a counterparty has a choice of when an amount is paid, the liability is allocated to the
earliest period in which the entity can be required to pay. For example, financial liabilities that
an entity can be required to repay on demand (eg demand deposits) are included in the earliest
time band.
(b) when an entity is committed to make amounts available in ins talments, each instalment is
allocated to the earliest period in which the entity can be req uired to pay. For example, an
undrawn loan commitment is included in the time band containing  the earliest date it can be
drawn down.
(c) for issued financial guarantee contracts the maximum amount of the guarantee is allocated to
the earliest period in which the guarantee could be called.
B11D The contractual amounts disclosed in the maturity analyses as required by paragraph 39(a) and (b) 
are the contractual undiscounted cash flows, for example:
(a) gross finance lease obligations (before deducting finance charges);
(b) prices specified in forward agreements to purchase financial  assets for cash;
(c) net amounts for pay-floating/receive-fixed interest rate swa ps for which net cash flows are
exchanged;
(d) contractual amounts to be exchanged in a derivative financia l instrument (eg a currency swap)
for which gross cash flows are exchanged; and
(e) gross loan commitments.
Such undiscounted cash flows differ from the amount included in the statement of financial position 
because the amount in that statement is based on discounted cas h flows. When the amount payable 
is not fixed, the amount disclosed is determined by reference t o the conditions existing at the end of 
the reporting period. For example, when the amount payable vari es with changes in an index, the 
amount disclosed may be based on the level of the index at the end of the period.
B11E Paragraph 39(c) requires an entity to describe how it manages the liquidity risk inherent in the items 
disclosed in the quantitative disclosures required in paragraph 39(a) and (b). An entity shall disclose 
a maturity analysis of financial assets it holds for managing liquidity risk (eg financial assets that are 
readily saleable or expected to generate cash inflows to meet c ash outflows on financial liabilities), 
if that information is necessary to enable users of its financi al statements to evaluate the nature and 
extent of liquidity risk.
B11F Other factors that an entity might consider in providing the disclosure required in paragraph 39(c) 
include, but are not limited to, whether the entity:
(a) has committed borrowing facilities (eg commercial paper faci lities) or other lines of credit (eg
stand-by credit facilities) that it can access to meet liquidity needs;
(b) holds deposits at central ba nks to meet liquidity needs;
(c) has very diverse funding sources;
(d) has significant concentrations of liquidity risk in either i ts assets or its funding sources;

<!-- page 84 -->

84A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(e) has internal control processes and contingency plans for man aging liquidity risk;
(f) has instruments that include accelerated repayment terms (eg on the downgrade of the entity’s
credit rating);
(g) has instruments that could require the posting of collateral  (eg margin calls for derivatives);
(h) has instruments that allow the entity to choose whether it s ettles its financial liabilities by
delivering cash (or another financial asset) or by delivering its own shares; or
(i) has instruments that are subject to master netting agreement s.
B12–
B16 [Deleted]
Market risk – sensitivity analysis (paragraphs 40 and 41)
B17 Paragraph 40(a) requires a sensitivity analysis for each typ e of market risk to which the entity is 
exposed. In accordance with paragraph B3, an entity decides how it aggregates information to display 
the overall picture without combining information with different characteristics about exposures to 
risks from significantly different economic environments. For example:
(a) an entity that trades financial instruments might disclose th is information separately for
financial instruments held for trading and those not held for trading.
(b) an entity would not aggregate its exposure to market risks f rom areas of hyperinflation with
its exposure to the same market risks from areas of very low inflation.
If an entity has exposure to only one type of market risk in only one economic environment, it would 
not show disaggregated information.
B18 Paragraph 40(a) requires the sensitivity analysis to show th e effect on profit or loss and equity of 
reasonably possible changes in the relevant risk variable (eg prevailing market interest rates, currency 
rates, equity prices or commodity prices). For this purpose:
(a) entities are not required to d etermine what the profit or loss for the period would have been if
relevant risk variables had been different. Instead, entities d isclose the effect on profit or loss
and equity at the end of the reporting period assuming that a reasonably possible change in the
relevant risk variable had occurred at the end of the reporting  period and had been applied to
the risk exposures in existence at that date. For example, if an entity has a floating rate liability
at the end of the year, the entity would disclose the effect on profit or loss (ie interest expense)
for the current year if interest rates had varied by reasonably possible amounts.
(b) entities are not required to disclose the effect on profit o r loss and equity for each change
within a range of reasonably possible changes of the relevant r isk variable. Disclosure of the
effects of the changes at the limits of the reasonably possible range would be sufficient.
B19 In determining what a reasonably possible change in the rele vant risk variable is, an entity should 
consider:
(a) the economic environments in which it operates. A reasonably  possible change should not
include remote or ‘worst case’ scenarios or ‘stress tests’. Mor eover, if the rate of change in
the underlying risk variable is stable, the entity need not alt er the chosen reasonably possible
change in the risk variable. For example, assume that interest rates are 5 per cent and an entity
determines that a fluctuation in interest rates of ±50 basis po ints is reasonably possible. It

<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  85A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
would disclose the effect on profit or loss and equity if interest rates were to change to 4.5 per 
cent or 5.5 per cent. In the next period, interest rates have increased to 5.5 per cent. The entity 
continues to believe that interest rates may fluctuate by ±50 b asis points (ie that the rate of 
change in interest rates is stable). The entity would disclose the effect on profit or loss and 
equity if interest rates were to change to 5 per cent or 6 per cent. The entity would not be 
required to revise its assessment that interest rates might rea sonably fluctuate by ±50 basis 
points, unless there is evidence that interest rates have become significantly more volatile.
(b) the time frame over which it is making the assessment. The s ensitivity analysis shall show the
effects of changes that are considered to be reasonably possible over the period until the entity
will next present these disclosures, which is usually its next annual reporting period.
B20 Paragraph 41 permits an entity to use a sensitivity analysis  that reflects interdependencies between 
risk variables, such as a value-at-risk methodology, if it uses  this analysis to manage its exposure to 
financial risks. This applies even if such a methodology measures only the potential for loss and does 
not measure the potential for gain. Such an entity might comply  with paragraph 41(a) by disclosing 
the type of value-at-risk model used (eg whether the model reli es on Monte Carlo simulations), an 
explanation about how the model works and the main assumptions (eg the holding period and 
confidence level). Entities might also disclose the historical observation period and weightings 
applied to observations within th at period, an explanation of h ow options are dealt with in the 
calculations, and which volatilities and correlations (or, alter natively, Monte Carlo probability 
distribution simulations) are used.
B21 An entity shall provide sensitivity analyses for the whole o f its business, but may provide different 
types of sensitivity analysis for different classes of financial instruments.
Interest rate risk
B22 Interest rate risk arises on interest-bearing fina ncial instruments recognised in the statement of 
financial position (eg debt instruments acquired or issued) and  on some financial instruments not 
recognised in the statement of financial position (eg some loan commitments).
Currency risk
B23 Currency risk (or foreign exchange risk) arises on financial instruments that  are denominated in a 
foreign currency, ie in a currency other than the functional currency in which they are measured. For 
the purpose of this SLFRS, currency risk does not arise from fi nancial instruments that are non-
monetary items or from financial instruments denominated in the functional currency.
B24 A sensitivity analysis is disclosed for each currency to which an entity has significant exposure.
Other price risk
B25 Other price riskarises on financial instruments because of changes in, for example, commodity prices 
or equity prices. To comply with paragraph 40, an entity might disclose the effect of a decrease in a 
specified stock market index, commodity price, or other risk variable. For example, if an entity gives 
residual value guarantees that are financial instruments, the e ntity discloses an increase or decrease 
in the value of the assets to which the guarantee applies.
B26 Two examples of financial instruments that give rise to equity price risk are (a) a holding of equities 
in another entity and (b) an investment in a trust that in turn holds investments in equity instruments. 
Other examples include forward contracts and options to buy or sell specified quantities of an equity 

<!-- page 86 -->

86A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
instrument and swaps that are indexed to equity prices. The fair values of such financial instruments 
are affected by changes in the market price of the underlying equity instruments.
B27 In accordance with paragraph 40(a), the sensitivity of profi t or loss (that arises, for example, from 
instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss) is disclosed separately from the sensitivity 
of other comprehensive income (that arises, for example, from i nvestments in equity instruments 
whose changes in fair value are presented in other comprehensive income).
B28 Financial instruments that an entity classifies as equity instruments are not remeasured. Neither profit 
or loss nor equity will be affected by the equity price risk of  those instruments. Accordingly, no 
sensitivity analysis is required.
Derecognition (paragraphs 42C–42H)
Continuing involvement (paragraph 42C)
B29 The assessment of continuing involvement in a transferred fi nancial asset for the purposes of the 
disclosure requirements in paragraphs 42E –42H is made at the level of the reporting entity. For 
example, if a subsidiary transfers to an unrelated third party a financial asset in which the parent of 
the subsidiary has continuing involvement, the subsidiary does not include the parent’s involvement
in the assessment of whether it has continuing involvement in t he transferred asset in its separate or 
individual financial statements (ie when the subsidiary is the reporting entity). However, a parent 
would include its continuing involvement (or that of another me mber of the group) in a financial 
asset transferred by its subsidiary in determining whether it h as continuing involvement in the 
transferred asset in its consolidated financial statements (ie when the reporting entity is the group).
B30 An entity does not have a continuing involvement in a transf erred financial asset if, as part of the 
transfer, it neither retains any of the contractual rights or o bligations inherent in the transferred 
financial asset nor acquires any new contractual rights or obli gations relating to the transferred 
financial asset. An entity does not have continuing involvement  in a transferred financial asset if it 
has neither an interest in the future performance of the transferred financial asset nor a responsibility 
under any circumstances to make payments in respect of the transferred financial asset in the future. 
The term ‘payment’ in this context does not include cash flows of the transferred financial asset that 
an entity collects and is required to remit to the transferee.
B30A When an entity transfers a financial asset, the entity may retain the right to service that financial asset 
for a fee that is included in, for example, a servicing contrac t. The entity assesses the servicing 
contract in accordance with the guidance in paragraphs 42C and B30 to decide whether the entity has 
continuing involvement as a result of the servicing contract fo r the purposes of the disclosure 
requirements. For example, a servicer will have continuing invo lvement in the transferred financial
asset for the purposes of the disclosure requirements if the servicing fee is dependent on the amount 
or timing of the cash flows collected from the transferred fina ncial asset. Similarly, a servicer has 
continuing involvement for the purposes of the disclosure requi rements if a fixed fee would not be 
paid in full because of non-performance of the transferred fina ncial asset. In these examples, the 
servicer has an interest in the future performance of the trans ferred financial asset. This assessment 
is independent of whether the fee to be received is expected to  compensate the entity adequately for 
performing the servicing.
B31 Continuing involvement in a transferred financial asset may result from contractual provisions in the 
transfer agreement or in a separate agreement with the transfer ee or a third party entered into in 
connection with the transfer.

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  87A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
Transferred financial assets that are not derecognised in their  entirety (paragraph 
42D)
B32 Paragraph 42D requires disclosures when part or all of the transferred financial assets do not qualify 
for derecognition. Those disclosures are required at each reporting date at which the entity continues 
to recognise the transferred financial assets, regardless of when the transfers occurred.
Types of continuing involvement (paragraphs 42E–42H)
B33 Paragraphs 42E –42H require qualitative and quantitative disclosures for each t ype of continuing 
involvement in derecognised financial assets. An entity shall a ggregate its continuing involvement 
into types that are repres entative of the entity’s exposure to risks. For example, an ent ity may 
aggregate its continuing involvement by type of financial instr ument (eg guarantees or call options) 
or by type of transfer (eg factoring of receivables, securitisations and securities lending).
Maturity analysis for undiscounted cash outflows to repurchase transferred assets 
(paragraph 42E(e))
B34 Paragraph 42E(e) requires an entity to disclose a maturity analysis of the undiscounted cash outflows 
to repurchase derecognised financial assets or other amounts pa yable to the transferee in respect of 
the derecognised financial assets, showing the remaining contra ctual maturities of the entity’s 
continuing involvement. This analysis distinguishes cash flows that are required to be paid (eg 
forward contracts), cash flows that the entity may be required to pay (eg written put options) and 
cash flows that the entity might choose to pay (eg purchased call options).
B35 An entity shall use its judgement to determine an appropriate number of time bands in preparing the 
maturity analysis required by paragraph 42E(e). For example, an  entity might determine that the 
following maturity time bands are appropriate:
(a) not later than one month;
(b) later than one month and not later than three months;
(c) later than three months and not later than six months;
(d) later than six months and not later than one year;
(e) later than one year and not later than three years;
(f) later than three years and not later than five years; and
(g) more than five years.
B36 If there is a range of possible maturities, the cash flows a re included on the basis of the earliest date 
on which the entity can be required or is permitted to pay.
Qualitative information (paragraph 42E(f))
B37 The qualitative information required by paragraph 42E(f) inc ludes a description of the derecognised 
financial assets and the nature and purpose of the continuing i nvolvement retained after transferring 
those assets. It also includes a description of the risks to which an entity is exposed, including:
(a) a description of how the entity manages the risk inherent in  its continuing involvement in the
derecognised financial assets.

<!-- page 88 -->

88A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
(b) whether the entity is required to bear losses before other p arties, and the ranking and amounts
of losses borne by parties whose interests rank lower than the entity’s interest in the asset (ie
its continuing involvement in the asset).
(c) a description of any triggers associated with obligations to  provide financial support or to
repurchase a transferred financial asset.
Gain or loss on derecognition (paragraph 42G(a))
B38 Paragraph 42G(a) requires an entity to disclose the gain or loss on derecognition relating to financial 
assets in which the entity has continuing involvement. The enti ty shall disclose if a gain or loss on 
derecognition arose because the fair values of the components of the previously recognised asset (ie 
the interest in the asset derecognised and the interest retaine d by the entity) were different from the 
fair value of the previously recognised asset as a whole. In that situation, the entity shall also disclose 
whether the fair value measurements included significant inputs  that were not based on observable 
market data, as described in paragraph 27A.
Supplementary information (paragraph 42H)
B39 The disclosures required in paragraphs 42D –42G may not be sufficient to meet the disclosure 
objectives in paragraph 42B. If this is the case, the entity sh all disclose whatever additional 
information is necessary to meet the disclosure objectives. The  entity shall decide, in the light of its 
circumstances, how much additional information it needs to provide to satisfy the information needs 
of users and how much emphasis it places on different aspects o f the additional information. It is 
necessary to strike a balance between burdening financial state ments with excessive detail that may 
not assist users of financial statements and obscuring information as a result of too much aggregation.
Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities (paragraphs 13A–13F)
Scope (paragraph 13A)
B40 The disclosures in paragraphs 13B–13E are required for all recognised financial instruments that are 
set off in accordance with paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. In addition , financial instruments are within 
the scope of the disclosure requirements in paragraphs 13B–13E if they are subject to an enforceable 
master netting arrangement or similar agreement that covers sim ilar financial instruments and 
transactions, irrespective of whether the financial instruments  are set off in accordance with 
paragraph 42 of LKAS 32.
B41 The similar agreements referred to in paragraphs 13A and B40  include derivative clearing 
agreements, global master repurchase agreements, global master securities lending agreements, and 
any related rights to financial collateral. The similar financi al instruments and transactions referred 
to in paragraph B40 include derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements, reverse sale and repurchase 
agreements, securities borrowing , and securities lending agreem ents. Examples of financial 
instruments that are not within the scope of paragraph 13A are loans and customer deposits at the 
same institution (unless they are set off in the statement of f inancial position), and financial 
instruments that are subject only to a collateral agreement.
Disclosure of quantitative information for recognised financial assets and recognised financial 
liabilities within the scope of paragraph 13A (paragraph 13C)
B42 Financial instruments disclosed in accordance with paragraph  13C may be subject to different
measurement requirements (for example, a payable related to a r epurchase agreement may be 
measured at amortised cost, while a derivative will be measured at fair value). An entity shall include 

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  89A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
instruments at their recognised amounts and describe any result ing measurement differences in the 
related disclosures.
Disclosure of the gross amounts of recognised financial assets and recognised financial 
liabilities within the scope of paragraph 13A (paragraph 13C(a))
B43 The amounts required by paragraph 13C(a) relate to recognised financial instruments that are set off 
in accordance with paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. The amounts required by paragraph 13C(a) also relate 
to recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enfo rceable master netting arrangement or 
similar agreement irrespective of whether they meet the offsetting criteria. However, the disclosures 
required by paragraph 13C(a) do not relate to any amounts recog nised as a result of collateral 
agreements that do not meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. Instead, such amounts 
are required to be disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d).
Disclosure of the amounts that are set off in accordance with t he criteria in paragraph 42 of 
LKAS 32 (paragraph 13C(b))
B44 Paragraph 13C(b) requires that entities disclose the amounts set off in accordance with paragraph 42 
of LKAS 32 when determining the net amounts presented in the statement of financial position. The 
amounts of both the recognised financial assets and the recognised financial liabilities that are subject 
to set-off under the same arrangement will be disclosed in both  the financial asset and financial 
liability disclosures. However, the amounts disclosed (in, for example, a table) are limited to the 
amounts that are subject to set-off. For example, an entity may  have a recognised derivative asset 
and a recognised derivative liability that meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32. If 
the gross amount of the derivative asset is larger than the gross amount of the derivative liability, the 
financial asset disclosure table will include the entire amount  of the derivative asset (in accordance 
with paragraph 13C(a)) and the entire amount of the derivative liability (in accordance with 
paragraph 13C(b)). However, while the financial liability discl osure table will include the entire 
amount of the derivative liability (in accordance with paragrap h 13C(a)), it will only include the 
amount of the derivative asset (in accordance with paragraph 13 C(b)) that is equal to the amount of 
the derivative liability.
Disclosure of the net amounts presented in the statement of fin ancial position (paragraph 
13C(c))
B45 If an entity has instruments that meet the scope of these disclosures (as specified in paragraph 13A), 
but that do not meet the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of  LKAS 32, the amounts required to be 
disclosed by paragraph 13C(c) wo uld equal the amounts required to be disclosed by paragraph 
13C(a).
B46 The amounts required to be disclosed by paragraph 13C(c) mus t be reconciled to the individual line 
item amounts presented in the statement of financial position. For example, if an entity determines 
that the aggregation or disaggregation of individual financial statement line item amounts provides 
more relevant information, it must reconcile the aggregated or disaggregated amounts disclosed in 
paragraph 13C(c) back to the individual line item amounts prese nted in the statement of financial 
position.
Disclosure of the amounts subject to an enforceable master nett ing arrangement or similar 
agreement that are not otherwise included in paragraph 13C(b) (paragraph 13C(d))
B47 Paragraph 13C(d) requires t hat entities disclose amounts tha t are subject to an enforceable master 
netting arrangement or similar agreement that are not otherwise  included in paragraph 13C(b). 
Paragraph 13C(d)(i) refers to a mounts related to recognised fin ancial instruments that do not meet 

<!-- page 90 -->

90A I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl  iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018
some or all of the offsetting criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32 (for example, current rights of set-
off that do not meet the criterion in paragraph 42(b) of LKAS 32, or conditional rights of set-off that 
are enforceable and exercisable on ly in the event of default, o r only in the event of insolvency or 
bankruptcy of any of the counterparties).
B48 Paragraph 13C(d)(ii) refers to amounts related to financial collateral, including cash collateral, both 
received and pledged. An entity shall disclose the fair value o f those financial instruments that have 
been pledged or received as collateral. The amounts disclosed i n accordance with paragraph 
13C(d)(ii) should relate to the actual collateral received or pledged and not to any resulting payables 
or receivables recognised to return or receive back such collateral.
Limits on the amounts disclosed in paragraph 13C(d) (paragraph 13D)
B49 When disclosing amounts in accordance with paragraph 13C(d), an entity must take into account the 
effects of over-collateralisation by financial instrument. To d o so, the entity must first deduct the 
amounts disclosed in accordance with paragraph 13C(d)(i) from the amount disclosed in accordance 
with paragraph 13C(c). The en tity shall then limit the amounts disclosed in accordance with 
paragraph 13C(d)(ii) to the remaining amount in paragraph 13C(c ) for the related financial 
instrument. However, if rights to collateral can be enforced across financial instruments, such rights 
can be included in the disclosure provided in accordance with paragraph 13D.
Description of the rights of set-off subject to enforceable mas ter netting arrangements and 
similar agreements (paragraph 13E)
B50 An entity shall describe the types of rights of set-off and similar arrangements disclosed in 
accordance with paragraph 13C(d), including the nature of those rights. For example, an entity shall 
describe its conditional rights. For instruments subject to rig hts of set-off that are not contingent on 
a future event but that do not meet the remaining criteria in paragraph 42 of LKAS 32, the entity shall 
describe the reason(s) why the criteria are not met. For any fi nancial collateral received or pledged, 
the entity shall describe the terms of the collateral agreement  (for example, when the collateral is 
restricted).
Disclosure by type of financial instrument or by counterparty
B51 The quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(a) –(e) may be grouped by type of financial 
instrument or transaction (for example, derivatives, repurchase  and reverse repurchase agreements 
or securities borrowing and securities lending agreements).
B52 Alternatively, an entity may group the quantitative disclosu res required by paragraph 13C(a)–(c) by 
type of financial instrument, and the quantitative disclosures required by paragraph 13C(c) –(e) by 
counterparty. If an entity provides the required information by counterparty, the entity is not required
to identify the counterparties by name. However, designation of  counterparties (Counterparty A, 
Counterparty B, Counterparty C, etc) shall remain consistent from year to year for the years presented 
to maintain comparability. Qualitative disclosures shall be considered so that further information can 
be given about the types of counterparties. When disclosure of the amounts in paragraph 13C(c)–(e) 
is provided by counterparty, amounts that are individually sign ificant in terms of total counterparty 
amounts shall be separately disclosed and the remaining individ ually insignificant counterparty 
amounts shall be aggregated into one line item.
Other
B53 The specific disclosures required by paragraphs 13C –13E are minimum requirements. To meet the 
objective in paragraph 13B an entity may need to supplement the m with additional (qualitative) 

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fcoh -› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'05'01  91A
PART I :SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA -01.05.2018 
disclosures, depending on the terms of the enforceable master n etting arrangements and related 
agreements, including the nature of the rights of set-off, and their effect or potential effect on the 
entity’s financial position.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA