

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'03'28
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
71
71
wxl 1"804- 2013 ud¾;= 28 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2013'03'28
No. 1,804 – THURSDAY ,  MARCH  28,  2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Land Settlement :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Province of Uva ... —
Province of Sabaragamuwa ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Notices under Land Development Ordinance ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 72
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  19th  April, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on  05th
April, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2013.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,803 of 22.03.2013 was not published.
Note .— (i) Laksman Wasantha Perera Community Development Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the
Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November, 16, 2012.
(ii) Global Humanitarian Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November, 30, 2012.
(iii) United Muslim Uammah (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December, 28, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'03'28
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
72
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s  No. : 4/10/25414.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.:  NCP/PLC/2008/L/7/10/4.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Residential Purpose, Mr. Herath
Mudiyanselage Davindara Dhinesh Herath   has requested on lease
a state land containing in extent about  18 P .  out of extent marked
Lot No. 01  as depicted in  the  Plan No. Nuwaragam palatha - East/
2008/21 and situated in the  village of 1st piyawara Anuradhapura
town belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division  of No. 249 coming
within the area of authority of Nuwaragam palatha - East Divisional
Secretary in the  District of Anuradhapura.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Acces road ;
On the East by : Road reserve  ;
On the  South by : Land of National Water supply and
developing  board  ;
On the West by : Land of Hurbert Rajawanse.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years  ( From  15.06.1995
onwards).
The Annual  rent  of the Lease. – 4% of the undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief Valuer for  the
year 1995.
Penalty .- Treble 4% of the developed value of the land;
(b) The  least must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease,  develop the said land  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lease  must not use this land for any purpose other than
for the Residential Purpose ;
(d) This lease must also be subject to the other special conditions
stipulated and imposed by the Divisional Secretary and by
other institutions;
(e) The building constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) Permission will not be given for sub leasing or vesting  for
the purpose  for  which the land  was obtained until the
expiry of 05 years  from 02.09.2011 the  requested to
obtain a free grant for this lease band  will be given  after  05
years from 02.09.2011.
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
(i) House construction activities must be completed within
the time frame specified in alienating lands for house
construction purpose and the failure to do so will be deemed
as  lapse of the   bond and the land will have to be  re-vested
in  the Government.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
N
UWANI SUDUSINGHA ,
Deputy/Assistant  Land Commissioner
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 No. 1200/6, ''Mihikatha Medura",
Land  Secretariat,   Rajamalwaththa Road,
Battaramulla,
07th March, 2013.
03-1057
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/36387.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: NP/29/04/2/SLO(BOC).
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose,  Bank of
Ceylon Kilinagar    has  requested on lease a  State land containing
in extent about  0.1159 Hectare forming a portion of Lot number
559 as depicted in the  tracing  TSPP 34 and situated in the village
of  Kilinagar which belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of
Kilinagar coming within the  area of authority of Karachchi
Divisional Secretariat in the District of Kilinochchi.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Peoples Bank reserve  ;
On the East by : Lot No. 560  ;
On the  South by : Street   ;
On the West by : A 9 Street .

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'03'28
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
73
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( from 10.01.2013
on wards );
The Annual rent of the Lease. – 4% of the   commercial
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer for
the year 2013. This  amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised in such a manner that the amount as
a result of the revision will be  not less than  50% of the
amount that just preceded.
Premium. - Three times of the  annual amount of the lease;
(b) This  lessee must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose  other
than for the purpose of  Commercial  activities ;
(d) The  lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary and by other   institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in  a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub leasing can be done  until the expiry of a minimum
period of  05 years;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
W. D. S
EPALIKA,
Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 No. 1200/6, ''Mihikatha Medura" Land  Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
11th March, 2013.
03-1213
My No. : 4/10/23535.
Deputy Land  Commissioner's No. : UPLC/L/3/BT/L/19.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No.  21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that the Buttala Miscellaneous Service Co-
operative Society Limited  has requested on lease a State land
containing in extent about 0.405 Hec.  out of extent Mark  Lot
No. 44 as depicted in  No. F. V. P. 171 and   situated in the  Village
of  Meegahawela which belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division of
Monaragala Road, Udagama  coming within the area of authority of
Buttala  Divisional Secretariat in the District of  Monaragala.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested:—
On the North by : Lot No. 46  ;
On the East by : Lot No. 46  ;
On the South by : Lot No. 46 ;
On the West by : Lot No. 27.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions :—
(a) Terms of the lease.–Thirty (30) years  (from 09.11.2012 on
wards) ;
(b) The annual amount of the lease .– 2%  of the currently
prevailing  undeveloped  value for the land.
(c) The lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, in develop the said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose other
than for the purpose of Co-operation Society Activities  ;
(e) This  lease must also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary and by other institutions ;
(f) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(g) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified

<!-- page 4 -->

 III fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h – 2013'03'28
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 28.03.2013
74
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(h) No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum period of 05 years   ;
(i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that
this land must not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
PUBUDI PREMADASA,
Assistant   Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,  "Mihikatha Medura" Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
14th  March, 2013.
03-1214
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.