

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
1A
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A -  PG 5231 — 100 (01/2021)
w;s úfYI
wxl 2211$49 - 2021 ckjdß ui 21 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2021'01'21
No.  2211/49  - THURSDAY ,   JANUARY    21,  2021
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PARLIAMENTARY   ELECTIONS   ACT   No. 1 OF 1981
Notice under Sub Section 8(9)
The schedule hereto lists the Orders issued under sub-section 8 (9) of the Act for recognition as a political party under the
Parliamentary Elections Act No. 1 of 1981.
                                                                 On the order of the Election Commission,
SAMAN SRI RATNAY AKE,
Commissioner General of Elections.
Elections Secretariat,
Sarana Mawatha, Rajagiriya,
21st January, 2021.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
2A
SCHEDULE
Documents to be submitted as
per statutory provisions Criteria
1.1. It should be based on objectives related to political activities
1.2. Provisions should be made for the appointment, removal and
disciplinary action of members and office bearers in a manner that
safeguards the principles of natural justice and democracy.
1.3. Provisions for amending the party constitution should be clearly stated.
1.4 The Constitution shall specify the periods for convening General
Meetings and Special General Meetings.
2.1. W omen officer/ officers should have been appointed to a post
mentioned in the party constitution.
2.2. The representation of women in the office bearers should have been
confirmed within a period of 4 years prior to the last date for calling
applications for party registration.
2.3. If there are officers / members in the office bearers who are of other
parties not in an alliance, information about them should be submitted.
3.1. Reports on the Audited accounts for four years prior to the  closing
date for applications for party registration should be submitted.
3.2. Relevant accounts should have been audited by a registered Auditor.
4.1. It is essential that it is a policy statement formulated to achieve the
objectives set out in the Party Constitution.
4.2. The policy statement must be approved by a simple majority of the
Central Committee of the party / office bearers.
5.1. Must be actively engaged basically in democracy, suffrage,
the rule of law and the rights of the people of the country.
5.2. Must have been involved in political activities for at least 4 years
before the last date for submission of applications to be recognized as
a political party. During those 4 years at least 5 political activities
should have been done in each year, and at least two of those five
political activities must have been major political activities.
1. The party constitution
2. Office Bearers
3.  Reports on the Audited  Accounts
4. Current policy statement of the party
5.  Political activities

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
3A
5.2.2 Leading Political Activities
i. Political party that has submitted applications for recognition of
political parties must independently put forward their candidates
within a period of four years or put forward their candidates in
alliance with another recognized political party by a memorandum
of understanding or contest independently for any election in
any given year.
When the voting period includes two consecutive years, the
function of contesting that election will be considered for both
years. However, both years can be considered only if it is
conclusively proven that they have competed alone or in an
alliance.
ii. If a political party has held its annual conference and district
assemblies in a given year, and established branch societies, it
is considered to be a major political activity in the relevant year.
iii. Printing of newspapers or magazines continuously for the last
four years by a party that engages in political activity to
propagate its own party policies and political activismis
considered a major political activity.
iv. Must be engaged throughout the relevant year in various national
activities acceptable to the Election Commission on any national
or social issue.
v. It is considered a major political activity to have implemented a
continuous program throughout the year to publicize the policy
statements, principles and ideas of the relevant political party
island wide throughout the country.
5.2.3. Other political activities
i. Active involvement in party or opposition activities related to
government policy is considered another political activity.
ii. Active participation for public rightsis seen as another political
activity.
iii. The conduct of various educational programs or other activities
related to democracy, the right to vote, the protection of the rule
of law in the country or any other related activities are considered
as other political activities.
iv. Educating the party activists and the people relevant to gaining
political power in the country is considered as another political
activity.
per statutory provisions Criteria

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
4A
v. The activities of the candidates, who have won a particular election,
to implement the policies of the party in the relevant public agency
are also considered as the political activities of the party for the
respective year.
vi. If an organization continues to maintain affiliated professional,
youth, women’s, etc. organizations and proves that the organization
is led by the party, that work is considered as a other political activity
relevant to that party.
vii. Although the publication of party ideologies through social
networking personal accounts or limited groups in the name of the
party is a political function relevant to each year it is not considered
a major political function. The content of the social media accounts
maintained in the personal name of the party activists can be obtained
as evidence of the activities of the party, but the maintenance of the
accounts in that personal name cannot be considered as an activity
of the party.
viii. Although issuance of announcements by the print / electronic media
or social networks on a regular basis or holding regular press
conferences in the name of the party by a specific leader or an
official of the party may be considered as one of the activities of the
party for each year, issuing press releases or holding press
conferences alone without public participation or any activity on
the ground is not considered a continuous political activity.
ix. Sending or handing over a letter to the competent authorities on
matters of national or international importance alone is not
considered as a party political activity. However, in such cases, the
regular submission of such letters is considered to be press releases
issued in each year.
x . Receiving invitations or attending to other political parties’
anniversaries or annual conventions, or attending public events or
government meetings is not considered a political activity of the
party.
xi. Activities related to the subject alone of organizations that are
organized solely for one area, such as the environment, religion,
welfare, social services, and trade unions, cannot be considered as
continuous political activities. If an organization has carried out
environmental or welfare or social service or several professional or
other activities and other political activities in a single year, those
environmental activities or welfare activities or social service
activities or professional activities done during the year can be
considered as one political activity pertaining to that year. Further,
when activities are carried out in several such areas along with
other political activities, the activities relevant to each field are taken
together and considered as separate activities for each field.
per statutory provisions Criteria

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI  LANKA - 21.01.2021
5A
xii. If an organization shows involvement in social service or social
welfare activities or environmental protection as part of political
activities, such activities can be considered as political activities
only if they are carried out covering the entire island  or at
least covering an entire electoral district or administrative
district. For example, engaging in social work for only a few
villages in a single electoral district cannot be considered a
political activity.
per statutory provisions Criteria
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.