

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2373$43 - 2024 ud¾;= ui 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'03'01
No. 2373/43  -  Friday,   march  01,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - PG 6661 - 05 (03/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. d. d. 4/2007
ThE  AYuRvEDA  ACT,  No. 31 Of 1961
ruLes made by the ayurvedic medical council under section 49(1)(a), (2) & (3) of the ayurveda act, No. 31 of 1961, read 
with section 19(1)(a) and (2) of the aforesaid act..
 chairman,
 ayurvedic medical council.
colombo,
07th February, 2024.
Rules
	 1.	 These	Rules	May	be	cited	as	the	Ayurvedic	Officers	and	Servant	(Conditions	of	Service)	Rules	No.	01	of	2023.
reGistrar to the ayurvedic medicaL couNciL
 2. the Person appointed by the ayurvedic medical council (hereinafter referred to as the “council”) as the registrar 
to the council under section 19(1)(a) of the act shall-
 (a) be a citizen of sri Lanka;
 (b) be an ayurvedic Practitioner  registered with the council;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.03.2024
2a
 (c) be a,
 (i) Bachelor of ayurveda medicine and surgery (Bams);
 (ii) Bachelor of siddha medicine and surgery (Bsms);
 (iii) Bachelor of unani medicine and surgery (Bums);
 (iv) diploma holder in siddha ayurveda medicine and surgery (dsams); or
	 (v)	 Diploma	holder	in	Siddha	Ayurveda	Certificate	(DSAC),
	 	 	 awarded	by	a	university	or	an	affiliated	institute	recognized	under	the	Universities	Act,	No.	16	of	1978;
 (d) be ayurvedic Practitioner employed either in the public service or in any other service recognized under the 
Universities	Act,	No.	16	of	1978;
	 (e)	 possess	fifteen	years	post-qualifying	experience	in	such	service;
	 (f)	 be	proficient	in	Sinhala	and	 Tamil	languages	and	English	language	shall	be	an	added	qualification;
	 (g)	 be	not	less	than	forty-five	years	and	not	more	than	sixty	years	of	age	on	the	date	of	appointment.
 3. the person appointed as the registrar as referred to in rule 2 shall be a person with good moral character and shall 
possess	satisfactory	career	record	for	the	immediately	preceding	period	of	five	years.
 4. the registrar to the council shall not -
	 (a)	 have	conflict	of	interest	with	the	activities	of	the	Council	
 (b) operate of be involved in the operation of any private institution engaged in training ayurveda Practitioners;
 (c) engage in either on his own or in collaboration with any other person the business of manufacturing, marketing 
or distribution of ayurveda drugs;
 (d) serve as a consultant to any local or foreign company engaged in the business of distributing any ayurveda 
drugs or in any activity which promotes such business;
 (e) be convicted for any criminal offence by a court of Law; or
 (f) be a person who has been penalised for any professional misconduct by the council.
 5. the duties and functions of the registrar shall be-
 (a) to serve as the secretary to the council;
 (b) to manage the affairs of the council including conducting written and oral tests in respect of the registration of 
traditional ayurveda Practitioners
 (c) to carry out all correspondence work on behalf of the council;
	 (d)	 to	assist	in	the	financial	matters	of	the	council
 (e) to have and to hold the seal of the council;
 (f) to maintain registers of ayurveda Practitioners, ayurveda Pharmacists and ayurveda Nurses in terms of the 
provisions of the act;
 (g) to convene meetings of the council and to record and maintain minutes of the proceedings of such meetings;
	 (h)	 to	 notify	the	decisions	of	the	Council	over	disciplinary	matters	of	registered	Ayurveda	Practitioners	and	execute	
such decisions;
	 (i)	 to	exercise	management	and	disciplinary	control	over	the	staff	of	the	Council;	and
 (j) to perform such other functions as are assigned to him by the council in furtherance of the objects and functions 
of the council.
 6. (1) the applications for the post of the registrar shall be called by way of an advertisement published in a daily 
newspaper in sinhala, tamil and english languages.
  (2) the selection of the candidate most suitable for the relevant post shall be made through a structured interview 
carried out by an interview board comprised of-
 (a) the chairman of the ayurvedic medical council who shall serve as the chairman of the interview board 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'03'01
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 01.03.2024
3a
 (b) two members of the ayurvedic medical council selected from among the membership of such council; 
and
	 (c)	 a	senior	officer	of	the	Department	of	Ayurveda	who	shall	be	of	the	rank	of	an	Assistant	Commissioner.
  (3) the interview board shall recommend a candidate to the council to be appointed as the registrar.
 7. the council shall appoint the candidate recommended by the interview board, as the registrar to the council and he 
shall be subject to such terms and conditions as determined by the minister.
	 8.	 The	term	of	office	of	the	Registrar	shall	be	for	a	period	of	three	years	and	may	be	re-appointed	for	a	second	term.
	 9.	 The	office	of	the	Registrar	shall	become	vacant-
	 (a)	 on	his	attaining	age	of	sixty	years	or	on	the	expiry	of	his	term	of	service;
 (b) upon his death;
 (c) on resignation in writing addressed to the chairman of the council
 (d) on his removal by the council on account of grave dereliction of duty or serious misconduct or incapacity; 
or
 (e) on a resolution adopted by the council with two-third majority of the membership of the council in 
favour	of	removing	him	from	office.
	 10.	 Where	the	post	of	Registrar	falls	vacant	due	to	reasons	specified	in	rule	9,	the	Council	shall	appoint	any	of	the	
members	of	the	Council	to	act	as	the	Registrar,	until	the	appointment	of	a	person	to	fill	such	vacancy	under	the	
provisions of section 19(1)(a) of the act.
 11. the registrar of the council may be remunerated in such manner as may, from time to time, be determined by the 
minister with the concurrence of the minister to whom the subject of Finance has been assigned.
oFFicers aNd serv aNts oF the ayurvedic medicaL  couNciL
	 12.	 Criteria	for	appointment	of	officers	and	servants	of	the	Council	and	their	promotions,	dismissal	and	disciplinary	
control shall be in accordance with relevant scheme of recruitment (sor) for the respective post, prepared by the 
council.
	 13.	 The	officers	and	servants	of	the	Council	may	be	remunerated	in	such	manner	as	may,	from	time	to	time,	be	determined	
by the minister with the concurrence of the minister to whon the subject of Finance has been assigned.
 14. For the purposes of these rules –
“a yurvedic Practitioner” means ayurvedic medical practitioner who is for the time being registered as such 
in the General register or in the special register maintained by the council; and
“council” means the ayurvedic medical council established under section 11 of the ayurveda act, No. 3 
of 1961.  
EOG	03	-	0008
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.