

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1908
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1902
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"128 – 2019 cqks ui 14 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'06'14
No. 2,128  –  fRiday ,  JuNE 14, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th July, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st June, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1899 - B 81531- 5,403 (06/2019)
N. B.–    the list of Jurors in colombo district Jurisdiction areas in year 2019 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
tamil, English languages.
Note.–    (i) Wages Boards (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 07, 2019.
 (ii) immigrants and Emigrants (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 07, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1900
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1901
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1902
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
KaNdy diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the Muslim Marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only Muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Muslim Marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
15th July, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 17th May, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  
Application are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Kandy akurana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of 
Rambuke Ela area in akurana, Harispattuwa
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy yatinuwara Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages of 
dehianga Muruthalawa area in udunuwara 
and yatinuwara division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy delthota Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages 
of delthota area of Hewawissa Korale in 
Pathahewaheta division
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Kandy.
06–202

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1903
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
KaNdy  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
15th July, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 17th May, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Application are called Address to which 
Applications should be sent
Kandy yatinuwara Post of Birth and death Registrar of yatinuwara 
Kandupalatha and Marriages Registrar (Kandyan/
General) of yatinuwara division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy tumpane Post of Birth and death Registrar of udapalatha 
West and Marriages Registrar (Kandyan/General) of 
tumpane division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy Harispattuwa Post of Birth and death Registrar of Medasiyapattuwa 
01 and Marriages Registrar (Kandyan/General) of 
Harispattuwa division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kandy.
Kandy four Gravets and 
Gangawatakorale
Post of Birth and death Registrar of Gangawatakorale 
and Marriages Registrar (Kandyan/General) of Kandy 
town division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Kandy.
06 –201

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1904
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
ministry of Defence 
REcRuitMENt oN oPEN BaSiS foR tHE PoSt 
(dEPaRtMENtaL) of diREctoR GENERaL 
(SPEciaL GRadE of tHE ExEcutiVE 
officER catEGoRy) of tHE RESEaRcH aNd 
dEVELoPMENt cENtER coMiNG uNdER tHE 
MiNiStRy of dEfENcE
aPPLicatioNS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who 
fulfill qualifications indicated in the notification to fill the 
vacancy exists in the post (departmental) of director General 
of the Research and development center coming under the 
Ministry of defence. 
01. Mode of Recruitment.– the applicant who obtained 
the highest marks on results of the aptitude Evaluation 
interview conducted by a Panel of aptitude Evaluation 
interview which is appointed by the Public Service 
commission will be recruited from among applicants who 
have fulfilled qualifications mentioned in the notification. 
aptitude interview will be held as per the marking scheme 
approved by the Public Service commission (mentioned 
under No. 06).
the date on which the appointment is in effective is 
decided according to the decision of the PSc.
02. Required Qualifications :
 (i) Educational Qualifications.– Having obtained a 
General degree from a university recognized 
by the university Grant commission (uGc) 
and Master of art/Master of Science in a 
subject field relevant to the post of Engineering 
Science/information technology. 
 (ii) experience : 
 (a) For Government Officers :
  Having completed an active and satisfactory 
period of service not less than eighteen 
(18) years with a five years (05) active and 
satisfactory period of service in Grade i of 
the Executive Officer Category and having 
earned a salary increment of five (05) years 
after promoting to Grade i and completed 
a five (05) years active and satisfactory 
period of service immediately preceding as 
at the date of which the qualifications are 
examined. 
 (b) For Officers who are engaging in Armed 
Services and Officers retired from Armed 
Services : 
  Having completed a five (05) years 
satisfactory period of service in the 
relevant field in the rank of Brigadier in 
the SL Army or as an officer of an Armed 
Services parallel to the same rank.
 (c)  for applicants of Semi-Government sector :
  Having completed a eighteen (18) years 
active and satisfactory period of service 
of the Executive Officer Grade and having 
completed a five (05) years satisfactory 
period of service immediately proceeding 
as at the date of which the qualifications 
are examined :
 (iii) Professional Qualifications. – if professional 
qualifications have been acquired, such 
qualifications will be treated as additional 
qualifications. 
 (iv) Physical Requirements.– applicant should be 
physically and mentally fit to perform duties of 
the post and service in any part of the island. 
 (v) Other Qualifications :
  Every applicant,
 (a)  Should be a Sri Lankan citizen, 
 (b) Should have an excellent character,
 (c) Should be fulfilled the qualifications in all 
aspect for the recruitment to the post as at 
the closing date of applications. 
Note.– Where  an officer, according to qualifications 
stated above could not be recruited, an 
officer in Grade I of the Executive Officer 
category who has completed an active 
period of service not less than twenty (20) 
years in the Executive Officer Category 
of an island wide service and completed 
a five (05) years satisfactory period of 
service immediately preceding as at the 
date of examining educational and other 
qualifications stated under above 02(I) will 
be appointed to the post by the PSc as per 
regulations stipulated under No. 06. 
03. Terms and Conditions of employment :
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. Should 
be subjected to policy decisions taken in due 
course by the government on the pension scheme 
for those applicants who have not engaged at 
present in Public Service.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1905
 II. This appointment should be subjected to the procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, the 
Establishment code of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the 
government and to the other departmental regulations.
04. Age Limit :
Should not be less than 40 years of age and not more than 50 years of age as at the closing date of applications. 
Maximum age limit shall not be applicable for officers of the Public Sector or Armed Services. Maximum age limit for 
retired officers of the Armed Services is 57 years.
05. Salary Scale: 
SL 03 - 2016. this post is entitled a monthly salary scale of Rs. 88,000.00 - 2,700x12 – Rs. 120,400.00/- you are 
paid the salaries in conformity with provisions of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 as stated 
is Schedule ii therein. 
06. following marking Scheme is based for interview of evaluating aptitudeness.
Subject Marks Maximum Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications
for Phd
for MPhil
for Post Graduate degree (other than Post Graduate degree to be considered for basic 
qualifications)
20
15
10
20
02 Professional Qualifications :
For certificates  obtained for innovations in national level  presented relating to the field 
(per 05 marks for each certificates)   
For certificates obtained for innovations in international level presented relating to the 
field (per 10 marks for each certificates)   
For patent obtained for  innovations relating to the field  20 marks for each certificates
( Maximum 20 marks)
20 20
03 additional Experience
(a) For Government Officers and Semi Government Officers
         for active and satisfactory period of service exceeding  eighteen (18) years in the 
Executive Officer Category. 
       (to a maximum 06 years per 05 marks to each year)
(b) For Armed Services Officers
        For satisfactory period of service exceeding five (05) years in the relevant field in 
the rank of Brigadier in the Sri Lanka Army or as an officer of an Armed Service 
parallel to same rank.
        (to a maximum 06 years per 05 marks for each year).
30 30
04 competencies
For researches available in relation to the field.
( Maximum 15 marks per 05 marks for one research)
For publication presented relating to the field. 
( Maximum 10 marks per 05 marks for one publication)
(Ensuring documents should be submitted as appropriate. Researches based on the 
completion of basic qualifications are not considered) 
15
10
25
05 competency shown at the interview
  Leadership
  communication
  Personality
02
02
01
05
total 100

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1906
07. Identity of Candidates.– only candidates who have 
submitted completed application in all aspects are called for 
the aptitude Evaluation interview.
Original Copies of all the certificates and copies of duly 
certified should be forwarded at the Interview.
following identity cards are accepted to ensure his own 
identity at the interview :
 i. National identity card issued by the commissioner 
of Registration of Persons.
 ii. Valid Passport
08. Forwarding applications :-
 I. Duly filled applications should be sent under 
registered post to reach the Secretary, Ministry 
of defence, No:15/5, Baladaksha MW, colombo 
03 on or before  12.07.2019. all the applications 
received after the closing date will be rejected.
 ii. a  specimen application to be forwarded is attached 
at the end of this notice. applicants should prepare 
their applications on a4 sheets to contain No. 01 – 05 
on the first page and the rest from No: 06 – 08 on 
the next page and complete it in their own hand 
writing.
 iii. the top left hand corner of the envelop should 
mention the “application for the post of director 
General of the Research and development center 
coming under the Ministry of defence”
 iV . Signature of the applicant should be attested by a 
principal in a Government School/ Justice of the 
Peace / commissioner for oaths/ attorney – at –
Law / Public Notary/ Commissioned Officer in the 
Tri-Forces or an Officer who helds a permanent 
post in the government who earns a monthly 
salary of Rs. 47,615.00/- 
 V . The Officers of those who are presently employed 
in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service 
should submit their applications through their 
Head of departments.
 Vi. applications which have not been submitted in 
conformity with the specimen application form 
attached herein will be rejected. Complaints 
regarding lost or delayed applications will not be 
entertained.
09. Furnishing false particulars.– if any of particulars 
furnished by you are found to be false or erroneous before 
recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if such 
falsehood or error is detected after recruitment, actions will 
be taken to dismiss you from the service subject to course of 
actions concerned.
08. the Public Service commission reserves  the right 
either to fill or not to fill the vacancies in the Post. 
By order of the Public Service commission,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of defence.
No. 15/5, Baladaksha Mawatha,
colombo 03,
14th June, 2019.
                                                                                                                            
For official use
ReCRuitmeNt foR the poSt of diReCtoR geNeRal of the 
ReSeaRCh aNd deVelopmeNt CeNteR ComiNg uNdeR the 
miNiStRy of defeNCe
01.  1.1  Name with initials : -Mr/Mrs/Miss  :––––––––––.
  (in block English letters)
 1.2  Name in full :––––––––––.
  (in block English letters)
 1.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala)
02.   2.1  Permanent address :––––––––––.
        2.2 telephone No. :
              fixed :––––––––––.   Mobile :––––––––––.
03.  3.1  Ethnicity :       Sinhala - 1,  tamil - 2,   
    Muslim - 3,  others - 4
       3.2  Sex :  female -1  Male -2
      3.3  Marital Status :    Married -1  
     unmarried -2
                               
      3.4  National identity card No. :
     
      3.5  date of Birth :  
  y ear :–––––––. Month :–––––––. date :–––––––.
     3.6 age as at    12.07.2019:   
  y ears :––––––. Months :––––––. dates :––––––.
04.   4.1  Educational Qualifications :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1907
4.1.1. General degree :   
 (i)  degree :–––––––––––.
 (ii)  university/ institution :–––––––––––.
 (iii)  date on which the degree effective : 
–––––––––––.
 4.1.2. Master of art/Science :
 (i)  degree :–––––––––––.
 (ii)  university/ institution :–––––––––––.
 (iii)  date on which the degree effective : 
–––––––––––.
 
4.2 Experience :–––––––––––.
     
4.2.1 For Government Officers :
 (i) Date on which the first appointment : 
–––––––––––.
 (ii) Entire period of Service :–––––––––––.
 (iii) date and period of service appointed 
to Grade I of the Executive Officer 
category :–––––––––––.
4.2.2 For Officers who are engaging in Armed 
Services and officers retired from Armed 
Services :
 (i) date appointed to the said rank  :––––––.
 (ii) Period of Service in that rank :–––––––.
 (iii) Retired date (for Retired Officers) :––––.
  
4.2.3 for candidates of the Semi Government Sector:
 (i) Date on which the first appointment : 
–––––––––––.
 (ii) Entire period of Service :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Period of Service in the Executive 
Officer Category :–––––––––––.
05. Whether you have been charged for any criminal 
offence in a court of Law. if yes, give details with the 
date and case Number :–––––––––––.
06. Certificate of the Applicant :
i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in this 
application by me are true and accurate. i am also aware 
that any particulars contained herein are found to be false or 
erroneous before recruitment, I am liable to be disqualified 
and if such falsehood or error is found after the recruitment, 
will be subjected to be dismissed from Service without 
paying any compensation.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
07. a attestation of the Signature of the applicant :
applicant’s Signature should be attested by a Principal, 
Justice of the Peace, commissioner for oaths, attorney - at – 
law, Public Notary, Commissioned Officer of the Tri-Forces 
an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or 
an Officer, holds a permanent post in the Government who 
earns a basic annual salary over Rs. 571,380.
i hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Ms. 
…………….............. (Name in full) is personally 
known to me and placed his/her signature before me on 
……………………… 
           
 –––––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Officer, attesting the 
 Signature of the applicant )
date :–––––––––––.     
Full name of the Officer attesting the Signature  :––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
 (Should be ensured by an Official Stamp)
08.  if the applicant is in the Government Service or Semi 
Government Service report of the Head of department  :
i hereby certify that the candidate Mr./Mrs./Ms. 
.…………..............… (Name in full) who forwards this 
application is personally known to me and placed his/her 
Signature before me on ………………..   
i further certify that his/her works, attendants and conduct 
is ………………………….. and it can / cannot be released 
him/her from the Service if selected for this post.
    
 –––––––––––––,
 (Signature of the Head of department).
as at :–––––––––––.
Name  :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
          (Should be ensured by an Official Stamp) 
06–678

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1908
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
to Executive Service Category of Grade III 
of Tariff Analyst in Department of Trade and 
Investment Policy - 2019
By order of the Public Service commission, applications are 
invited from suitable candidates having below mentioned 
qualifications to fill 02 existing vacancies in Grade III 
(Executive Service category) at the department of trade 
and investment Policy. applications should be prepared in 
accordance with the specimen application attached to this 
notification and be sent under registered post to reach the 
director General, department of trade and investment 
Policy, colombo - 01 on or before the closing date of 
application given below. Envelope containing the application 
should be marked "Limited competitive Examination - 
2019 for the recruitment of tariff analyst- Grade iii of the 
department of trade and investment Policy" on the top left 
hand corner of the envelope.
the closing date for calling applications will be 
15.07.2019.
Note.– any complaints of loss of applications/an 
articles thereof or delay in delivery shall not be 
accepted. the candidate shall bear the losses 
which may occur due to their delay of sending 
applications until the closing date.
1. Method of recruitment :– Recruitments will be made as 
per the order of total marks on merit obtained at the written 
exam and the qualification assessment test.
in accordance with the order of the total marks on merits 
and having passed the written examination with repetitive 
qualifications, double of the required number of candidates 
is called for the interview to recruit each and every post. 
Recruitments will be made according to total marks on merit 
obtained by the candidates at the written examination and 
the interview for the assessment of qualifications.
the number of appointments and the effective date 
shall be determined as per the order of the Public Service 
commission.
the names of the candidates who obtained the highest 
marks at the written examination enlisted in the alphabetical 
order should be forwarded in duplicate by the Sri Lanka 
foundation institution to the Public Service commission.
2. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale specified for this 
post as per Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 
25.02.2016 is Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335- 8x1,630 -17x2,170 
- Rs.110,895 (SL-1-2016). your salary will be paid in 
accordance with the provisions of the aforesaid circular as 
mentioned in Schedule ii.
3. Conditions of Service :
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. Selected 
candidate should contribute to the Widows' 
and orphans'/Widowers' and orphans' Pension 
scheme.
 ii. Selected candidates will be appointed to this 
post subject to a probationary period of one year.
 iii. Prescribed official language proficiency shall 
be obtained within 05 years according to the 
provisions of the Public administration circular 
01/2014 dated 21/01/2014 and consequent 
circulars here to.
 iV . This appointment will be subject to the 
procedural rules of Public Service commission, 
provisions of the Establishment code and 
financial Regulations of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the 
conditions of the recruitment procedure of 
"Executive Grade Service category" of the 
department of trade and investment Policy and 
any other departmental orders.
4. Qualifications :
 4.1.  Educational qualifications  : Should have 
possessed a Special degree in Economics or 
Management from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission ;
  or
  Should have possessed a General degree in 
Economics or in Management and with Post 
Graduate qualifications equivalent to or higher 
to a Post Graduate diploma in Economics or 
Management from a university recognized by 
the university Grants commission.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1909
 4.2  experience :
  Shall be an officer confirmed in the appointment and completed ten (10) years of active and satisfactory service 
in the post under MN- 01 or a higher Salary code.
  (Marks will be given for the experience with regard to perform the duties in the field of tariff and other import 
taxes and implementation of all those.)
 4.3 Physical Qualifications :
  Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to discharge duties of the post in any part of the island.
 4.4 Other Qualifications :
 (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii) Shall be on excellent character.
 (iii) All required qualifications for this examination mentioned under clause 4.1 to 4.2 shall have been completed 
in every aspect on the closing date of applications.
 (iv) Shall have been completed a satisfactory service of preceding five (05) years service period on the date of 
interview.
 (v) All qualifications prescribed for recruitment to the post shall be completed as at closing date of calling 
applications. 
5.  Written examination :
 5.1 this examination will be conducted by the Sri Lanka foundation institution.
Question paper Duration
Time (Hrs.)
Total
Marks
Pass
Marks
1.tariff analysis 02 100 40
2. international trade agreements 02 100 40
 5.2 Syllabus :
Question paper Syllabus 
l. tariff analysis 1.1. Evolution of the current tariff structure, its composition and its 
contribution to the Public revenue.
1.2. Methodology of application of tariffs and related legal frameworks.
1.3. Methodology of applying and liberalizing tariffs.
1.4. different schemes of tariff liberalization.
1.5. Review of other taxes effective on import and export trade parallel to 
the tariffs.
2. international 
trade agreements
2.1. Sri Lanka's commitments to the Wto on international trade and 
other related activities.
2.2. Bilateral trade agreements of Sri Lanka, its composition including 
tariff amendments.
2.3       Multilateral trade agreements of Sri Lanka, its composition 
including tariff amendments.
2.4. future trade agreements and its necessity.
2.5. Review of the impact, pros and cons of the international trade on Sri 
Lankan economy.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1910
6. Interview : 
 6.1 Qualification assessment interview
 
   Marks will be given by an interview board appointed by the Public Service commission.
No. Fields of Assessment Maximum
marks
Pass
marks
01. Experience in discharging duties related to the implementation of tariff 
policies. 15
Not
applicable
02. Additional educational qualifications 15
03. Trainings and other qualifications obtained related to the field 05
04. Language proficiency 05
05. computer literacy 05
06. Performance at the qualification assessment interview 05
7. Conditions of the examination :
 i.  the Examination shall be held in Sinhala, tamil and English medium. candidates shall sit for the examination 
in preferred language. candidates shall answer for all the question papers in one language. candidates will 
not be allowed to change the language medium mentioned in their application. all candidates must sit for all 
the question papers.
 ii. Examination fee is Rs.1000/-. this fee can be credited to the People's Bank account Number 014100169026611 
- maintained at the union Place' branch for the department of trade and investment Policy and one edge of 
the receipt should be affixed in the relevant cage provided of the application so as not to be detached. It is 
advisable to retain a photocopy of the receipt for future references.
 iii. under any circumstances, no examination fee will be refunded.
 iV . This examination will be held only in Colombo. The date and the place of examination will be notified later.
 V.  Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice.
 Vi. Results of this examination shall either be informed by post to all the applicants who sat for the examination 
or published on the web site of Ministry of finance- www.treasury.gov.lk
Note: candidates shall not be permitted to enter the examination hall without the admission card. only the 
admission card having attested the signature shall be submitted to the supervisor of the examination 
hall on the first day of the examination. Admission to the examination does not constitute acceptance 
of eligibility.
 Vii.  application should be prepared in a4 papers in such a manner that the titles nos. from 01 to 04 appear 
on the first page and the rest is on the other pages. The application should be filled correctly and clearly 
in own handwriting. applications that do not comply with the specimen given herewith and those have 
not been completed properly, will be rejected without notice. It would be advisable to have a photocopy 
of the application. Further it is notified that it is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form completed by him/her and complies with the specimen given in the Gazette notification if 
not the application will be rejected without any notice. Application forms should be prepared specimen in 
compliance with the application attached to this notification.
 Viii. director General of the department of trade and investment Policy shall retain the right to postpone or to 
cancel the examination on the approval of the Public Service commission.
 ix. All candidates are subject to the rules and regulations imposed by the Director General of the Department of 
trade and investment Policy with regard to the conducting of this examination. in case of violation of those 
rules and regulations, candidates shall be subjected to a punishment imposed by the Director General of the 
department of trade and investment Policy.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1911
 x. Identity of the Candidate :– Every candidate shall be requested to prove his identity to satisfy the supervisor 
of the Examination hall. for this purpose one of the following documents will be acceptable.
 (i) the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid Passport
 (iii) Valid driving License
N. B.–  (a) No document or a copy of such a document should be annexed to the application.
 (b)  the applications of the candidates shall not be considered whenever they are failed to submit the 
documents.
all the candidates should be forwarded their applications through the respective head of department / institution of the 
Public Service/Provincial Public Service and statutory bodies. Before sitting the examination, signature certification is 
compulsory for all candidates. the signature of the candidate of an institution should be attested and forwarded through the 
respective head of the department.
In case of any divergence in the text of this notification published in Sinhala, Tamil and English, the Sinhala text will 
prevail.
By the order of the Public Service commission,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of finance.
Ministry of finance,
the Secretariat,
colombo - 01,
on 28th May, 2019.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
limited CompetitiVe examiNatioN foR ReCRuitmeNt to exeCutiVe SeRViCe CategoRy of gRade iii of taRiff 
aNalySt iN depaRtmeNt of tRade aNd iNVeStmeNt poliCy - 2019
index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala -l,tamil -2, English -3 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(it will not be allowed to change this subsequently) 
01. 1.1.  Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––. 
  (example : HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa) 
 1.2  Name with initials (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
  (example : - KuMaRa H.M.S.)
 1.3  Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 1.4 National identity card No. : 
02. 2.1 Permanent address (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
 2.2  Permanent address (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 2.3 Official address (in block capitals) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1912
 2.4 Official address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
 2.5  address in which admissions should be posted (in block capitals) :––––––––––.
  (In case of an officer of the Public Service / Provincial Public Service, He/she should submit his/ her official 
address. a change of the address should be informed forthwith)
03. 3.1 Sex : female - 1  Male - 0   (Write the relevent No. in the cage)
 3.2 Marital Status : Married - 1     unmarried - 2 (Write the relevent No. in the cage)
 3.3 date of Birth : y ear :   Month :          date :
 3.4 age as at 15.07.2019 : y ears :                 Months :           days :
 3.5 Telephone : Official :––––––––––.            Private :––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Qualifications as per the paragraph 4.1 of the notice for calling applications :––––––––––.
 4.2 Name of the institution :––––––––––.
 4.3  details of Service period: -.
  (a) 
Department in which the candidate has served Designation From To Duration
 
  (b) Service category /designation:
   class :- Since
   Grade :- Since
   annual Salary as at 14.06.2019.
05.  Affix the receipt so as not to be detached. 
Paste the receipt here by paying examination fees.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt.)
 
  amount paid :––––––––––. 
  Place of payment  :––––––––––. 
  Receipt No. :––––––––––. 
  date of payment :––––––––––. 
  
06. declaration of the candidate:-
6.1.  i declare that the information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate as i have known according to my 
knowledge. I also declare that I have affixed herewith the receipt of exam fees No. .........................., dated ...............
................. and if any particulars contained herein are found to be false and inaccurate, I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment or after appointment and to cancellation of appointment without any compensation. further, i 
agree to be bound by all the rules and regulations imposed by the Secretary to the Ministry of finance regarding 
conducting the Examination and releasing the results.
6.2  i declar e that I have earned all salary increments immediately preceding five years of the service to 14.06.2019 
(Except the increment where passed service or departmental tests is a condition published) and i have not been 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1913
subject to any type of disciplinary punishments 
(except warning) for any offense.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the candidate.
date :––––––––––.
07. Certificate of the Head of Department :
Should be signed as the head of the institution in which 
the candidate's personal file is maintained. 
i hereby certify, that this candidate (Mr. /Mrs. /Miss ........
.................................... is employed in this office since  ........
...................................... and his /her work and conduct have 
been satisfactory and the details furnished by him/her in the 
paragraph No. 04 have been verified with records available 
in this department personally by me and he/she has paid due 
examination fees and the relevant receipt is affixed herewith.
  ––––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the institution.
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
Note :  it is essential that each candidate appearing the 
examination should place his / her signature attested 
both on the application form and the admission 
card. Any officer applying through a particular 
institution should place his / her signature attested 
by the head of such institute or his or authorized 
officer.
06–377
–––––––––––––––––––––
LImITED COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO GRADE III 
Of ASSISTANT TRANSPORTATION 
SuPERINTENDENT (mEChANICAL) 
& GRADE III Of ASSISTANT 
TRANSPORTATION SuPERINTENDENT 
(ENERGy CONSERvATION) IN ExECuTIvE 
SERvICE CATEGORy IN ThE SRI LANkA 
RAILWAy DEPARTmENT - 2017(2018)
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the qualified 
officers of the Department for the Limited Competitive 
Examination for recruitment to Grade iii of assistant 
transportation Superintendent (Mechanical) & Grade 
iii of assistant transportation Superintendent (Energy 
conservation) Executive Service category in Sri Lanka 
Railway department.
01. By this examination, the Recruitment will be made 
to Grade iii of assistant Superintendent (Mechanical) 
& Grade iii of assistant transportation Superintendent 
(Energy conservation) Executive Service category in Sri 
Lanka Railway department.
Written examination :-
 (i) for assistant transportation Superintend 
(Mechanical) Grade iii this examination will 
consist of two papers.
  1. General intelligence
  2. Technology and Office System
 (ii) for assistant transportation Superintendent 
(Energy conservation) Grade iii this examination 
will consist of two papers.
  1. General intelligence
  2. Energy conservation and Management
Date of examination.– this Examination will be held 
on September in colombo. the Secretary reserves the 
right to postpone or cancel this Examination subject to the 
instructions given by the Public Service commission.
02. it will be made 04 appointments for the post of 
assistant transportation Superintendent (Mechanical) 
Grade iii and 01 appointment for the post of assistant 
transportation Superintendent (Energy conservation) 
Grade iii. if there are candidates with equal marks exceeding 
the number of vacancies for the last vacancy or the last 
vacancies, the filling of vacancies will be decided by the 
order of the Public Service commission as per the clause 80 
in the minutes of procedural rules.
03. Conditions of Service :-
 3.1 a selected candidate will be appointed to Grade 
iii of the service on the general conditions 
governing appointments in the Public Service 
and on the terms and conditions set out in the 
recruitment procedure for executive service 
category in Sri Lanka Railway department 
approved on 16.05.2017 by the Public Service 
commission No: PSc/ESt/04-01-43/05/2014 
and subject to any amendments made or to be 
made here after to that procedure, provisions in 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1914
the establishment code and financial Regulations 
and of the minutes of procedural rules of the 
Public Service commission published in the 
Gazette extraordinary of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1589/30 of 
20
th february 2009.
 3.2 this post is permanent, pensionable and 
contribution should be made to the Widows’ and 
orphans’ Pension fund.
 3.3 This post is subjected to a one year probation 
period. Every Officer should pass the first 
Efficiency bar test before completion of 03 
years from the date of appointment to the post                                                                             
in Grade iii of assistant transportation                                     
Superintendent (Mechanical)/ assistant 
transportation Superintendent (Energy 
conservation) in the Executive Service category 
in Sri Lanka Railway department on terms and 
conditions set out in the recruitment procedure.
 3.4 The proficiency of official language concerned 
should be achieved within five years from the 
date of appointment in terms of the provisions of 
the Public administration circular No.01/2014 
and the consequent circulars.
 3.5 appointments of candidates who fail to report 
for duty on the due date & or refuse or evade 
to take up duties in a post or in an area they are 
appointed to are liable to be cancelled by the 
order of the public service commission.
04. Salary scale per month.– in terms of the schedule 1 of 
the Public administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 
the Salary scale relevant to this post is Rs.47,615/= -10x1, 
335-8x1,630-17x2,170- Rs. 110,895/=(SL-1-2016). your 
payments will be made with compliance to the Provisions of 
that circular and its schedule ii. in addition to this, you are 
entitled to the allowances paid to the government officers 
from time to time.
05. eligibility :-
 (a) (i)  Be a citizen in Sri Lanka
  (ii)  Have a sound moral character
  (iii) Be Physically & mentally fit to serve in any 
part in the island
 (b) Experience :-
 (i) Being an officer who has completed 05 
years of satisfactory and active service 
period at the date of calling applications as a 
district inspector (Mechanical) in Sri Lanka 
technological Service.
  or
 (ii) Being an officer who has completed 05 years 
of satisfactory and active service period at 
the date of calling applications as a super 
grade Locomotive driver in Sri Lanka 
technological Service.
Others :
 (i) All the qualifications, mentioned above as 
the requirements to recruit to the post should 
be completed in every aspect as at the date of 
receipt of applications.
 (ii) age is irrelevant.
06. examination Fee. – the examination fee is                                   
Rs. 1,200.00. it should be paid before the closing date of 
applications at any Post office/ Sub Post Office to be credited 
to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of commissioner General of 
Examinations. The receipt obtained from the Post Office/ 
Sub Post Office should be pasted in the relevant cage of 
the application form. Money orders or stamps will not be 
accepted. this examination fee is non - refundable and will 
not be exchanged for another examination. it is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
07. Method of Application :-
  (a)  the application should be in the form of the 
specimen appended to this notification & 
should be prepared on a4 size paper using 
both sides. it should be specially noted that 
the application forms should be prepared that 
sections 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the first side of the 
paper and 3.0 to 7.0 appear in the second 
page. for this purpose computerized/typed 
applications can be used. applications that do 
not comply with the specimen and that are not 
completed in every aspect shall be rejected 
without notice. So it is the responsibility of 
the candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by the candidate complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice, 
completed in every aspect or pasted the receipt 
obtained by making payments while completing 
relevant details in the application. further it 
is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
and the application with the candidate.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1915
 (b) the application should be in the language 
medium in which the candidate intends to sit the 
examination. it is essential to mention the name 
of examination in English language as well, in 
applications prepared in both Sinhala & tamil 
media.
 (c) the completed application form for the 
examination should be sent by registered post 
to reach the following address on or before 
12th July 2019 through the Head of the 
department. (any application received after 
the closing date will not be accepted.) the Post 
applied should be clearly indicated on the top 
left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the  
application, (ex: Limited competitive Examination 
for recruitment to Grade iii of assistant 
transportation Superintendent (Mechanical) 
in Executive Service category in Sri Lanka  
Railway department - 2017 (2018) or Limited 
competitive Examination for recruitment to 
Grade iii of assistant transportation 
Superintendent (Energy conservation) in 
Executive Service category in Sri Lanka 
Railway department - 2017 (2018).
  the commissioner General of Examinations,
  organization & foreign Examinations Branch,
  department of Examinations - Sri Lanka,
  Post Box 1503,
  colombo.
 (d) Post and the service station of the applicant 
at the time of applying to the examination  
would be applicable for all the matters related 
to the exam and any changes occurred in 
relation to the post and service station after 
the sending of application would not be 
considered.
 (e) any application, which is not complete in 
every aspect is rejected. No complaint that  
an application has been lost or delayed in post 
will be considered.
 (f) a notice will be published in the newspapers 
by the department of Examinations as 
soon as admission cards are issued to applicants. 
if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the department of 
Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. In such notification, the title of the 
Examination, full name of the candidate, address 
& National identity card Number should be 
mentioned. in case of applicants outside colombo 
a letter of request furnishing a fax number 
to which the admission card should be sent is 
important to be forwarded to the department of 
Examinations with the object of sending a 
photocopy of the admission card by fax. in such a 
request it is useful to keep photocopies of the 
applications, receipt obtained by paying exam  
fee and the receipt of registration to prove 
any matter inquired by the department of 
Examinations.
 
 (08)  Admission to the examination :-
 (a) the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to the candidates 
who have sent application forms correctly 
in every aspect on the presumption that only 
qualified applicants have applied according 
to the Gazette notice. a candidate who fails to 
produce his admission card will not be permitted 
to sit the examination.
 (b) a candidate must sit the Examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him. Every 
candidate presenting himself for the examination 
firstly must produce his admission card on which 
his signature has been attested, to the Supervisor  
of the  Examination    center.  a   set     of    rules 
to be observed by all candidates is published 
at the beginning of Gazette. candidates are 
subjected to rules & regulations imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations on 
conducting the Examination. candidates are 
liable to be subjected to a Punishment imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examination for 
breach of these rules.
 (c) Attestation of the signature.– Signature of 
the candidate in the application form and the 
admission card should have been attested. 
the signature of a candidate who applies 
through an institute, should have been 
attested by the Head of the institute or by an 
officer authorized by him.
Note:- the issue of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that he has fulfilled 
the requisite qualifications to get a post or to 
sit the examination.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1916
(09) Identity of candidates.– a candidate will be required to prove his identity at the Examination hall to the satisfaction 
of supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) National identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons,
(b) Valid passport.
(10) Penalty for furnishing false information.– Application should be filled very carefully & accurately. If a candidate 
is found to be ineligible his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any stage prior to during or after the examination as per 
the rules & regulations of this exam.
(11) Any matter not provided in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the 
instructions given by the Public Service commission.
(12) Scheme of Examination and Medium of Examination
 (a) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil & English.
NOTe:-  (i)  a candidate must sit all the papers of the examination in one & the same language.
 (ii)  a candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination, indicated in 
the application.
(13) Recruitment Procedure :-
 13.1 Written examination :
  i- for assistant transportation Superintendent (Mechanical) Grade iii
  A written Examination will be held for the following subjects with two papers. The subjects & the minimum 
marks required to pass each subject are as follows:
No. Subject Time Maximum Marks Minimum marks required to 
pass
01 intelligence test 01 Hour 100 50
02 Technology and Office System 03 Hour 100 50
  ii- for assistant transportation Superintendent (Energy conservation) Grade iii 
  A written Examination will be held for the following subjects with two papers. The subjects & the minimum 
marks required to pass each subject areas follows:
No. Subject Time Maximum Marks Minimum marks 
required to pass
01 intelligence test 01 Hour 100 50
02 Energy conservation and Management 03 Hour 100 50
  candidates should sit all the question papers.
 13.2 Structural Interview.– All the candidates score over 50% marks for the two subjects in the written Examination 
held for recruitment to the posts of assistant transportation Superintendent (Mechanical) Grade iii and 
assistant transportation Superintendent (Energy conservation) Grade iii will be called for the interview.
a structural interview will be held in order to the following procedure to measure the experience and the skill of 
the applicants by an interview board appointed by the Public Service commission. the highest mark offered at the interview 
will be 100.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1917
No. Subject Maximum Marks
01
Experience
• Seniority                         - 50
• Experience of operating - 10 
     trains in the upper line
60
02 Skill 40
total 100
 13.3  Marking scheme of the structural interview in detail is as follows:
Main areas
of offering marks Sub areas taken for Consideration Marks offered Highest
Mark
for Service
experience
for a satisfactory service period in the post of 
district inspector (Mechanical) in Sri Lanka 
technological Service or in the post of locomotive 
driver in special class except the period of 
immediate five years which is required as a basic 
qualification in the recruitment.
(for maximum of 10 years)
05 marks for one year
03 marks for a service period of 
more than six months and less than 
a year
50
02 marks for a service period of less 
than six months and more than three 
months
02 marks for one year
Experience of running trains in upper line.
(for maximum of 05 years)
01 marks for a service period of less 
than one year and more than six 
months
10
1/2 marks for a service period of less 
than six months and more than three 
months
Skills
1. Skill in running diesel Hydraulic Locomotives 
(Wl, W2,W3, y class engines)
2. Skill in running diesel Hydraulic Power sets (S8 
Power sets)
3. Skill in running diesel Electric Power sets (S9, 
S10, Si1, S12 Power sets)
4. Skill in running diesel Electric Locomotives (two 
stroke) (M2, M6, M7 class engines)
5. Skill in running diesel Electric Locomotives 
(four stroke) (M4, M5, M8, M9, M10 class 
engines)
(Marks will be offered by via of attending on the 
skill of running engines and the service in all 
the rail lines)
6. Letters of commendations, received from the 
department of Railways in respect of running 
locomotives.
(Maximum of 04 marks with 01 mark for a 
commendation of the Head of the department 
as per the format Gen.230b)
06 marks
06 marks
06 marks
06 marks
06 marks
04 marks
40

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1918
Main areas
of offering marks Sub areas taken for Consideration Marks offered Highest
Mark
7. Certificates on special trainings, obtained as 
local or overseas in respect of running of 
locomotives.
1.01 mark for a certificate course of not less than 02 
weeks
(maximum marks will be awarded for one training 
course)
8. Performance at the interview
(a) Leadership - 01 mark
(b) communication - 01 mark
(c) Personality - 01 mark
03 marks
03 marks
total 100
NOTE:- Facing the interview should not necessarily mean that he or she has fulfilled requisite qualification to offer 
the appointment.
13.3 All the candidates sat for the examination will be notified results personally by the Commissioner General of 
Examination through post or website www.result.exams.gov.lk
(14) Syllabus of the written examination :
 (i) for Assistant Transportation Superintendent (mechanical) Grade III.
 1. intelligence test
  this question paper will consist of multiple choice questions to assess the candidate’s capacity for 
Logical thinking, analytical conditions & taking insidious decisions.
 2. Technology and Office System
  this is a structured paper with essay type questions to assess the candidate’s,
 (i) Knowledge in technical operations of locomotives
 (ii) Knowledge in arranging technical training programs, implementation and evaluations.
 (iii) Knowledge in prevention of faults occur in operations of locomotive staff consequent to the 
investigation done in relation to these faults.
 (iv) Knowledge in departmental circulars, administrative regulations and Railway instruction code.
 (v) awareness in arranging service circuitous and principles in arranging service circuitous for 
appointing locomotive staff.
 (vi) awareness in producing reports and conducting inspections on mechanical faults.
 (vii) Knowledge of planning, which is related to locomotive staff.
 (viii) awareness of a method of communication with the locomotive staff.
 (ix) Skill in making relevant alternations, up grading, forwarding suggestions and project reports 
consequent to the inspections on railway running by traveling in train.
 (x) awareness in producing reports with regard to the defects in railway signal system and tracks.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1919
 (ii) for Assistant Transportation Superintendent 
(Energy Conservation) Grade III.
 1. intelligence test
  this paper will consist of multiple choice 
questions since this is a staff grade post, 
questions are given to access the candidate's 
logical intelligence, insightful thinking 
and capacity for taking indecisions using 
pictures and graphs including numerical, 
verbal contexts and tabular.
 2.  Energy conservation and Management
  this is a structured paper with essay type 
questions to assess the candidate’s,
 (i) Knowledge in relation to procurement 
guide manual.
 (ii) Procedure of granting fuel for the 
department of Railways.
 (iii) Knowledge in settlement of bills 
for fuel, (with Lanka Petroliam co-
operation)
 (iv) Knowledge regarding the fuel, storing 
of fuel in main fuel tanks, keeping 
stocks & entering stocks in books.
 (v) awareness of the method of storing 
fuel in tanks. (General knowledge 
in mechanical operations of fuel 
store complex, awareness in matters 
regarding the maintenance of fuel 
tanks from time to time to inform the 
administration & knowledge of the 
measures that can be taken to confirm 
the safety of the fuel store complex.)
 (vi) Measures that should be taken to losses 
& grant of coal.
 (vii) Knowledge regarding the measures 
that should be taken for wastage of fuel 
& losses.
 (viii) Knowledge regarding the measures 
that should be taken to utilize fuel 
economically & general knowledge 
in measuring the capacity of the fuel 
stored in fuel tanks & awareness 
regarding slow meter.
 (ix) awareness & knowledge of conducting 
sudden inquiries & preliminary 
investigation on corruptions 
& irregularities regarding fuel 
consumption.
 (x) awareness regarding the measures that 
should be taken in order to confirm the 
accuracy of the measuring equipments 
& meters.
15. in the event of inconsistency among Sinhala, tamil 
and English languages the Sinhala text shall prevail.
on the order of the Public Service commission, 
 L. P. 
Jayampathy,
 Secretary, 
 Ministry of transport and civil aviation. 
Ministry of transport & civil aviation
07th floor, 
Sethsiripaya,
Stage ii,
Battaramulla,
on 14th May, 2019.
Specimen Application form
Office use only
LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to GRadE iii of aSSiStaNt 
tRaNSPoRtatioN SuPERiNtENdENt 
(MEcHaNicaL) & GRadE iii of aSSiStaNt 
tRaNSPoRtatioN SuPERiNtENdENt (ENERGy 
coNSERVatioN) iN ExEcutiVE SERVicE 
catEGoRy iN tHE SRi LaNKa RaiLWay 
dEPaRtMENt - 2017 (2018)
  1.0 Medium :
 Language Medium of Examination
 Sinhala  - 2 
 t amil  - 3 
 English  - 4
 (Write the relevant Number in cage) Language 
Medium of Examination should be used to fill 
the application form.
  1.1 applying post: (Write the relevant Number in 
cage)
  1. assistant transportation Superintendent 
(Mechanical) iii
  2. assistant transportation Superintendent (Energy 
conservation) iii
  3. Both posts

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1920
2.0 Personal Particulars:
  2.1 full name (in English capital Letters) :––––––––.
   (Ex.: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN 
KuMaRa GuNaWaRdHaNa)
  2.2 Last Name with initials :–––––––––––.
   (Ex : GuNaWaRdHaNa , H.M.S.K.):  
  2.3 full Name (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––.
  2.4 Official Address :–––––––––––.
   (in English capital Letters) [admission card will 
be posted to this address] :
  2.5 Official Address (In Sinhala/ In Tamil) :––––––.
  2.6 Private address(in Sinhala/ in tamil) :––––––––.
  2.7 Gender:- 
   [Please write the relevant number in the cage]
   Male       -  0  
   female     -  1
  2.8  National identity card Number:
  2.9 civil status:- 
   [Please write the relevant number in the cage]   
unmarried -  1
   Married  -  2    
  2.10 Ethnicity : 
   (Sinhala - 1 , tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3, 
   Muslims - 4, others - 5) 
   [Please write the relevant Number in the cage]
  2.11 date of Birth : 
   y ear :                       Month :             date :
  2.12 Mobile Phone Number:  
3.0 Mention the language of the examination /interview 
which you have been qualified to the service/ Grade to 
the date of 12.07.2019 :––––––––––––.
 
4.0 (i)  Have you fulfilled all the requirements in terms of 
the Gazette notification?  
  (a) age on 12.07.2019 :
    y ears :–––––.  Months :–––––.   days :–––––.  
  (b) Experience   :–––––––––––.  
 (i) under which category, 5 (b) i/5 (b) ii are you 
qualified as per the paragraph 05(b) of the Gazette 
notification?  :––––––––––––.
 (ii) designation held at present :–––––––––––. 
 (iii) Grade :––––––––––––.
 (iv) date of the appointment :––––––––––––.
 (v) Date of confirmation in the particular post :                 
–––––––––––.
 (vi) Salary code number & salary scale :–––––––––––.
 (vii) Language medium of examination :–––––––––––.
 (ii)  the entire period of active & satisfactory service 
that should be completed qualifications in a 
service/Grade approved in terms of the paragraph 
05 in the Gazette notification on 12.07.2019  :               
–––––––––––.
5.0 Payment of examination fee:
 Examination fee
  (i) Office at which the fee was paid :––––––––––––.
  (ii) amount Paid :––––––––––––.
  (iii) date on which the Examination fee was paid : 
––––––––––––.
  (iv) Receipt No. :––––––––––––.
Paste only one side of the receipt (original copy) here 
[keep a photocopy of the receipt with you]
6.0 declaration of the candidate:-
i hereby declare that i have earned all the increments 
(except the increment which is a condition of passing 
the services or departmental tests) to  ............................. 
or within the period of ............................. or i have not 
been subjected to any kind of disciplinary punishment. 
further i declare that i am liable to the decisions of the 
commissioner General of Examinations with regard of 
conducting the exam and issuing results. i hereby declare 
that I am qualified to sit for the limited Examination in terms 
of the rules & regulations in the Gazette notification and 
all the particulars furnished by me in this application are 
true & accurate to best of my knowledge. i agree to follow 
the rules & regulations of this Examination & if it is found 
to be disqualified in terms of the service minute with the 
Provisions of the Exami nation, My candidature is liable to 
be cancelled prior or during or after the examination. further 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'06'14
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.06.2019
1921
i am liable to follow the rules & regulations, imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant.
date  :––––––––––––.
7.0 Recommendation of the Head of the department, 
[according to the personal file of the applicant]
i hereby certify that the applicant Mr./ Mrs./ Miss .             
................................. is serving as a .......................... He/she 
has earned all the increments (except the increment which is 
a condition of passing the service or departmental tests) to 
..................... date ............................... or within a period of 
five years, or he/she has not been subjected to any kind of 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
disciplinary punishment (except warning), or possess a 05 
years period of active & satisfactory service as per the 05
th 
paragraph in the relevant Gazette notification, or he/she is 
qualified to sit for the examination in terms of the rules & 
regulations in the Gazette notification, or he/she has put his/
her signature before me.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department/  
 Signature of the authorized Officer.
Name :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
(Must attest by an official seal)
06–567