

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of  July 07, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 10.07.2017)
J. SRI RANGA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. M.S.Thowfeek
to incorporate the J. Sri Ranga Foundation
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
A
BILL
(Private Member's Bill)

<!-- page 2 -->

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation) 1
5
10
15
20
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE  J. SRI RANGA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS Foundation called and known as the “J. Sri
Ranga Foundation” has heretofore been formed  in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting
all objects and matters connected with the said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the J. Sri Ranga  Foundation
(Incorporation)  Act, No. of 2017.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“J. Sri Ranga Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Foundation “) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted shall be a body corporate
(hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”) with perpetual
succession under the name and style of “J. Sri Ranga
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:–
(a) to participate in social, cultural and economic
development of the country;
(b) to give assistance to develop religious centres;
Preamble.
Short title.
25
Incorporation
of the J. Sri
Ranga
Foundation.
General
Objects of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 J. Sri Ranga Foundation  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(c) to implement leadership programs;
(d) to advise and assist all communities in Sri lanka to
live in peace and harmony;
(e) to implement academic and training programmes
relevant for environmental conservation of rural
areas;
(f) to establish information technology centres for the
advancement of scientific studies;
(g) to implement social mobilization programs and
educational and training programmes for the
development of the children and women;
(h) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or cast;
(i) to protect descipline and cultural values and to make
provisions for their maintenance;
(j) To improve artistic, sports  and technical knowledge
of school leavers and to set up vocational training
centers; and
(k)  to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the time
being of the Corporation be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation) 3
5
10
15
20
(2) The first Board of Directors of  the Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of the
Foundation holding office on the day immediately preceding
the date of commencement of this Act,
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any
including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants, donations, to invest  its funds,
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the  carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any General Meeting of the members and by a
majority of not less than two-thirds of the members present
and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matters:-
(a) Classification , admission, withdrawal, expulsion
or resignation of members and the membership fees
payable;
(b) procedure to be observed for the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Corporation and of  the
Board of Directors, the quorum for such meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointments, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
25
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 J. Sri Ranga Foundation  (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(d) qualifications required to become a member of the
Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under the above  subsection.
(3)  Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Corporation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The  Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequests, donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees
or grants for and on account of the corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation) 5
5
10
15
20
25
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
all such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act and subject to the  rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or
institutions having objects similar to those of the Corporation
and which, is or are by its or their rules prohibited from
distributing any income or property among their members.
11. (1) All moneys received and expended by the
Corporation shall be examined and audited at least once in
every year by an auditor or auditors appointed by the Board
of Directors.
(2) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year by an auditor or
auditors appointed by the Board of Directors and the Income
and Expenditure, accounts and balance sheet  be certified.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever expect in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
Audit and
accounts of
the
Corporation.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 J. Sri Ranga Foundation  (Incorporation)
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 8 -->

J. Sri Ranga Foundation (Incorporation) 7
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .