

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1693
1693
wxl 1"877 - 2014 wf.daia;= ui 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'08'22
No. 1,877 – FRIDAY , AUGUST 22, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1696
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1698
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th September, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th
August, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
Note.—  Municipal Councils (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 01, 2014.
N.B.— Parts I:III and III of the Gazette No. 1,876 of 15.08.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1694
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1695
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1696
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS  DEVELOPMENT
Calling Applications to the Posts of Management Assistant (Demonstrator) of Supra Grade of the
Department of Technical Education and Training
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified officers who are holding the Post of Demonstrator Class I of service category of Management
Assistant (Technology) segment 3 of the Department of Technical Education and Training to appoint to the Post of Management
Assistant (Demonstrator) of Supra Grade of the Department.
01. Recruitment Procedure.– Appointments will be made equivalent to the No. of vacancies available, based on the merit order
of the results of structural interview, in terms of provisions of the scheme of recruitment for the Posts of Management Assista nt
(Demonstrator) of Supra Grade of the Department, for the existing vacancies in Colleges of Technology and Technical Colleges, coming
under the purview of the Department of Technical Education and Training.
Headings, to be given marks at the structural interview Maximum Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualification 25
2. Additional V ocational Qualifications, obtained relevant to the post 35
3. Additional Experience obtained within the field relevant to the post 35
4. Skills, at the interview 05
Total 100
02. Mode of Applications.– Applicants should prepare their applications personally according to the specimen form herewith,
in A4 size paper using both sides and send with the recommendation of their Head of the institution, under registered cover to reach the
"Director General, Department of Technical Education and Training, P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo - 10" on or before
22.09.2014. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked "Posts of Management Assistant (Demonstrator) of Supra Grad e
of the Department of Technical Education and Training" on the top left hand corner.
03. Salary, relevant to the post. – Monthly consolidated salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 20,030 - 11x365 -18x500 -
Rs. 33,045. Salary will be paid in term of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006, MN–7–2006( ta).
04. No. of V acancies.– Nine (09) vacancies in Colleges of Technology and Twenty nine (29) vacancies in Technical Colleges will
be completed on the results of this structural interview.
05. Qualifications :–
(i) Should have completed five (05) year active and satisfactory period of service in Class I of Post of Demonstrator of the
Department of Technical Education and Training.
(ii) Should have earned prescribed five (05) salary increments within five (05) years. immediately prior to the date of
applications.
(iii) Should have been absorbed to Class I of Demonstrator Post of Management Assistant (Technology) segment 3 service
of the Department of Technical Education and Training.
(iv) Physical Fitness. – Every candidate shall have sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka
and to discharge the duties of the post.
(v) Should have passed the Efficiency Bar Examination, relevant to the Class I.
All qualifications, need to recruit to the post should have been fulfilled by the closing date of applications.
06. Mode of selection .– Applicants, who selected based on the merit order of marks, of structural interview, should liable to
serve in any College of Technology or Technical College which has vacancies and situated in any part of the Island. If acceptan ce at
appointment at the attached College will be rejected, his appointment will be repealed and next qualified applicants will be ca lled and
vacancies will be completed.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1697
07. These appointments will be made, subject to the general conditions, which control the Public Service appointments, rules
mentioned in the scheme of recruitment relevant to this post and amendments, already done or would be done to such scheme.
08. Public Service Commission has the power to fill or not to fill vacancies and to take decision with regard to the matters that
rules were not made herein.
09. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Gazette Notification, Sinhala text shall
prevail.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development.
MARKING SCHEME OF STRUCTURAL INTERVIEW FOR THE RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT (DEMONSTRATOR) OF SUPRA GRADE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
Headings, to be examined and given marks Maximum Marks
1. Additional Education Qualifications 25
1. For a Diploma Course, not less than one year 10
2. Certificate Courses (not less than 06 months) 07
3. Certificate Courses (less than 06 months) - 02 marks per a certificate 08
2. Additional Vocational Qualifications (except qualifications related to the recruitment) 35
1. Have fulfilled NVQ level 7 qualifications of relevant field obtained from the
University of V ocational Technology or an institution recognized by the Tertiary 20
and V ocational Education Commission
2. Have fulfilled NVQ level 6 qualifications of relevant field obtained from an
Institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission 15
3. Additional Experience : 35
05 marks per a year, which over the active and satisfactory service period of 05 years
in class I of the Post of Demonstrator
4. Skills at the interview 05
Total 100
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT
(DEMONSTRATOR) OF SUPRA GRADE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
1. 1.1 Full Name (in block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
1.2 Full Name (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
2. 2.1 Address :––––––––––––.
2.2 Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
2.3 Service Station :––––––––––––.
3. 3.1 Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––,  Month :–––––––––,  Date :––––––––.
3.2 Age as at closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :–––––––.
4. Whether married/unmarried/Widow :––––––––––––.
5. 5.1 Date and Grade, recruited to the Post of Demonstrator :
––––––––––––.
5.2 Date of Promotion to Class I
5.3 Period of Service in Class I
5.4 Language medium, recruited to the Post of Demonstrator
:––––––––––––.
6. 6.1 Have you been absorbed to Class I, of service category of
Management Assistant (Technology) segment 3 ? :––––––.
6.2 If so, date of absorption :––––––––––––.
B4 - B80867

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1698
7. 7.1 No. of pay leave, obtained within five (05) years
immeidately prior to the clsoing date of application :–––.
7.2 Active period of service in Class I of Post of Demonstrator
:––––––––––––.
I declare that I have earned all salary increments to be received
within 05 years, immediately prior to the closing date of applications
and I have not subjected to any disciplinary punishment within
that period and also I hereby declare that I have fulfilled the required
qualifications for this post and to the best of my knowledge and
belief, the particulars mentioned in the application are true and
correct. I aware that even I selected according to the structural
interview, I am not qualified to obtain the appointment if any
incorrect information detected.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
Attestation of the Head of the Institution
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... who
submit this application, is working in this office since .................
and he/she completed active and satisfactory period of service,
immediately prior to ........................ and I personally examined the
particulars, mentioned in the application with the records of this
office and were found correct and signed before me on
............................
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Institution.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Seal)
08–718
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELAWALA  DEFENCE
UNIVERSITY  SOUTHERN  CAMPUS  -  SURIYAWEWA
UNDERGRADUATE  CADETSHIPS
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans for
Undergraduate Cadetships at General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University Southern Campus Sruiyawewa from 27th July 2014 to
31st August, 2014.
2. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University is empowered
to award Degrees by the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto,
to those who have successfully completed the Academic and Military
components of studies pertaining to the degree programmes.
3. The Degree programmes applicable to these Officer Cadets
will be of five year duration for Architecture (B Arch) Stream, four
year duration for Bachelor of Science in Built Environment (Hons.),
three year duration for Bachelor of Science in Built Environment,
four year duration for Bachelor of Sciene in Surveying Sciences
(Hons.), four year duration for Bachelor of Science in Quantity
Surveying (Hons.), four year duration for Bachelor of Science in
Information Technology and bachelor of Science in Information
System :
3.1. The allocation of Officer Cadets for the three services
will be based on the aggregate marks obtained at the three
interviews, conducted for selection and the availabiliy of
vacancies in each service. Officer Cadets will be
comissioned in the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army,
Navy or Air Force, after successful completion of the
degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military
training components of the degree programmes, the Officer
Cadets will be awarded Bachelor of Architecture (B Arch),
Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.), in the disciplines of Built
Environment, Surveying, Sciences, Quantity Surveying,
Information Technology and Information Systems as
applicable.
3.3 All degree programmes are conducted in the medium of
English.
3.4 Selected candidates will be allowed to follow one of the
following Bachelors Degree Programmes.
(a) Bachelor of Architecture (B Arch) - Five year Degree
with two exit points in 4th and 3rd year respectively
with following degrees :
Bachelor of Science in Built Environment (Hons.)
- Four Years.
Bachelor of Science in Built Environment - Three
Years.
For those who have passed three (3) of the
following subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in 2013 or 2012 are eligible to apply for University
admission (YES).
(i) At least one of the following subjects :
Biology
Higher Mathematics
Chemistry
Physics
Combined Mathematics
Art
Geography

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1699
(ii) The other subject and subjects from the following
list :
Accounting
Hindu Civilization
Business Statistics
Islamic Civilization
Greek and Roman Civilization
Elements of Political Science
English
Sinhala
Christian Civilization
Communication and Media Studies
Hindi
Buddhist Civilization
Home Economics
Chinese
Logic and Scientific Method
Mathematics
Sanskrit
German
Arabic
History
Business Studies
Japanese
Economics
Pali
French
Tamil
Information and Communication Technology
(iii) At least a Credit Pass (C) in Mathematics I or
II at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination
or an Ordinary pass (S) in Mathematics at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
(b) Bachelor of Science in Quantity Surveying (Hons.)
- Four years
For those who have passed three (3) of the
following subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
in 2013 or 2012 are eligible to apply for University
admission (YES).
At least one subject from
Combined Mathematics     Higher Mathematics
and other subject/subjects from the following list :
Accounting
Business Studies
Information and Communication Technology
Economics
Physics
Business Statistics
Chemistry
In addition, candidates should have satisfied the
following requirements at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination :
(a) At least a Credit pass (C) in Mathematics I or
II.
(b) At least an Ordinary pass (S) in Science I or II.
(c) At least a Credit pass (C) in English langauge.
(c) Bachelor of Science in Surveying Sciences (Hons.)
- Four years
For those who have followed Physics, Combined
Mathematics and any other subject available at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012, passed
three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for
University admission (YES).
(d) Bachelor of Science in Information Technology -
Four years
For those who have followed Physical Science,
Bio Science, Arts or Commerce Stream at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012 passed
three (03) subjects and aer eligible to apply for
University admission (YES).
(e) Bachelor of Science in Information Systems  - Four
years
For those who have followed Physical, Science,
Bio Science, Arts or Commerce Stream at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2013 or 2012, passed
three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for
University admission (YES).
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of
common and special subjects pertaining to respective
Degree Programmes, including English, Management, Law,
International Studies and Military subjects.
3.6 They are also required to undergo continuous training in
Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and
Leadership, during their Degree Programmes.
4. Eligibility requirements.– Candidates should :
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age on 31.08.2014.
(c) be eligible to apply for University admission and have
fulfilled the following requirements :
(i) Passing the Common General Test ;
(ii) Have a minimum of a credit (C) pass for English
language at G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1700
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Male Female
Height Army 5'6" 5'3"
Navy 5'6" 5'3"
Air Force 5'6" 5'4"
Weight Army 50kg –
Navy 50kg 41kg
Air Force 17<BMI<26 17<BMI<25
Chest 32" (unexpanded) –
Note.– (If a candidate possesses outstanding achievements
in sports or other relevant activities, the above physical
standards may be relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of
Defence and Urban Development and Chairman of the
Board of Management, General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence University).
(e) Confirm to the required medical standards.– Successful
candidates are required to pass a medical test to the
satisfaction of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and
Urban Development and Chairman of the Board of
Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University.
(f) Be unmarried. (No Officer Cadet will be permitted to
marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so
by Service Regulations.)
5. Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be enlisted as
Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University,
Southern Campus - Suriyawewa. They will be subjected to laws,
regulations and orders under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to enter
into a Bond and an agreement with the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as applicable, after
being graduated in the respective degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid an amount of approximately
Rs. 26,000 per month as pay and allowances. In addition, the
following facilities will be provided free of charge:
(i) Board and lodging ;
(ii) Medical facilities ;
(iii) Uniforms ;
(iv) Batman facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka
Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be entitled for pay and allowances
appropriate to the rank in accordance with the Service pay codes.
(a) The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) qualification allowance ;
(ii) ration allowance ;
(iii) disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for
married officers only) ;
(iv) uniform up keep allowance.
(b) Other facilities and allowances :
(i) accommodation when ordered to live in ;
(ii) rent allowance ;
(iii) uniform allowance ;
(iv) batman allowance ;
(v) one return duty warrant a month from place of work
to home station to those who are ordered to “live in”.
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the
following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and conditions
of service :-
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force pay code.
(ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/Air
Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity
Code pubilshed in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to
undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice Chancellor,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University, Southern Campus
- Suriyawewa and or respective Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training
to any part of Sri Lanka or Abroad.
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to live in,
accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University, Southern Campus
- Sruiyawewa or by the respective Service establishments.
13. Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be required
to comply with any rules and regulations already made or that may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce
proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master General or Driving License
issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted for this
purpose.
15. Applications.– Application forms and the Brochures can be
downloaded from the University Website 
www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. Duly completed applications should accompany a receipt
obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (One Thousand Rupees) to any Branch
of the Bank of Ceylon in favour of “The Vice Chancellor, General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University” to be credited to the Current
Account Number “9405831” of the Bank of Ceylon, Idama Branch,

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1701
Moratuwa. The applications without basic qualifications and  not
duly filled in accordance with the conditions or the information will
be rejected. The application fee will not be refunded.
17. The duly completed applications should be forwarded to
"The Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University,
Ratmalana" under registered cover to reach him on or before
31.08.2014.
"Application for Cadetships" and the stream applied, should be
written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Applications
received after the closing date or do not confirm the requirements of
this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications from officers in Government Services and
Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through the
Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies and should
accompany a certificate to the effect that the Officer would be released
if selected.
19. Applications should be send with certified copies of
certificates of Registration of Birth, G . C. E. (O/L), G . C. E. (A/L)
result sheets with a certification for being qualified for University
admission (Yes).
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those
candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterian determined by the Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates who are selected from
the first interview will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection will be made by
the Final Selection Committee appointed by the Board of
Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
21. Candidates who are selected for interviews and tests will be
informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such
interviews. Travelling or other expenses for this purpose will not be
paid to applicants.
22. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so
by giving him a testimonial.
 Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
23. Receipt of Applications will not be acknowledged. No
correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to rejected
applications.
G
OTABAYA RAJAPAKSA, RWP RSP psc.,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence and Urban Development and
Chairman of the Board of Management
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
08–797
EXCISE  DEPARTMENT  OF  SRI  LANKA
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Post of Excise Inspector
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens for the Post
of Excise Inspector in the Excise Department of Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in 297mm x 210mm (A4) papers as per
the specimen form indicated in this notification should be sent to
"the Commissioner General of Excise, Department of Excise, No.
34, W. A. D. Ramanayake Mawatha, Colombo 02" on or before
22.09.2014 by the registered post. "Application for the Post of
Excise Inspector" should be mentioned at the top left hand croner of
the envelope enclosing the application.
Applications should be completed and precise in all respects as
indicated in the notification and applications which are not so
completed and precise and which are not been received as at the
specified date will be rejected without any notice. Complaints
regarding the loss of applications or correspondence in that connection
in the post will not be entertained. The receipt of the applications
will not be acknowledged.
01. Method of Recruitment to the service.– Recruitment will be
made on the basis of Open Competitive Examination and an interview
conducted giving due consideration to personal skills of applicants.
If it is found that the number of qualified applicants is equal to or
less than the number of existing vacancies, they may be called to a
structured interview without conducting a written examination.
02. Structured interview .– The applicants who score 50% or
more marks at the written examination, will be called for the interview
as per the number of existing vacancies. Qualified persons are to be
selected on the merit basis of total marks obtained by applicants
both in the written examination and interview.
03. Particulars regarding the General duties of the post. –
Operation and monitoring of junior officers and personal engagement
in the process of standardization of licit alcohols and prevention of
illicit alcohols/dangerous drugs under the respective ordinances and
other orders viz, execution of relevant functions in a certain jurisdiction
or a special unit or an excise station and execution of raids in relation
to excise crimes and execution of prevention activities by the relevant
officer himself and directing junior officers in the performance of
such activities.
04. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,850 - 7x180 - 2 x 240 - 8x 320 - 17x375
- Rs. 26,525 (Step 11) monthly salary is applicable for this post.
(RS-2-2006A as per P. A. C. 6/2006iv).
05. Age Limit.– Applicants should be not less than 21 years and
not more than 35 years as at 22.09.2014. Officers who are already
serving in the Department of Excise and possess other qualifications,
can apply for the Post as external applicants without considering the
maximum age limit.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1702
06. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(i) The applicant should be a Graduate of a recognized
University.
(ii) The applicant should have obtained credit passes for
Mathematics and English Language at the G . C. E.
(Ordinary Level) Examination.
(iii) The minimum height measured bear footed should be
167.6cm (5 feet and 06 inches). The size of the chest
when exhaled should be 83.8cm. (33 inches).
(iv) Applicants should possess a good moral character.
(v) Applicants should be physically fit enough to serve in
any part of the Island.
(vi) Applicants should be with the minimum eye sight of
6/6 and 6/12 including the eye sight of identifying goods
without using spectacles or contact lenses.
(vii) Priority will be given to applicants with talents in sports
and other extra curricular activities.
07. Particulars regarding the written examination :
Common Question Paper (Duration : 2 hours, 100 marks)
It is expected to measure applicant's intelligence, logical thinking
ability and ability in decision making. (Questions relating to
Mathematical/Graphical problems, writing of synonyms/antonyms,
making phrases/sentences and filling blanks will be included in the
paper).
08. Marks will be allocated for the following qualifications at the
structured interview :
Talents in Sports.– For talents recorded in National, Provincial,
District, Divisional and School Level Competitions in different sports.
Special trainings.– For Cadet/V oluntary Service/Martial Arts or
technical training.
Other Extra Activities :
09. Examination Fees .– Applicants should pay an amount of
Rs. 1,000 as the examination fees. Any bank draft obtained from any
of the bank branches to be creded to the Account No. : 0007041628
of the Commissioner General of Excise in the Taprobane Branch of
the Bank of Ceylon should be sent along with the application. The
applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the bank draft with
them. This amount will not be refunded.
10. Training Period.– Three months training will be provided to
the selected appliants. The training of persons who are unable to
pass the examination conducted at the end of this training period will
be terminated. If it is confirmed that the reasons for not passing the
examination by a certain applicant are beyond the control of the
relevant officer, the training period can be extended by three months
and the apprentice can be allowed to sit the examination again.
Trainees will be paid a combined monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000
during the training period.
11. Probation period. – Applicants who complete the training
successfully will be appointed as Excise Inspectors subject to a
probation period of three (03) years. If they are able to get through
the Departmental Examinations that are prescribed to be passed by
them, they will be confirmed in the Post of Excise Inspector at the
end of the probation period. If it is confirmed that the reasons for not
passing the examination are beyond the control of the relevant officer
and if his conduct, service and attendance are satisfactory in all
respects, his probation period can be extended only up to a maximum
of two years for allowing him to pass the examination.
12. Conditions of the Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) They can be directed to serve in any part of the Island.
13. Conditions of the Service :
(i) Applicants qualified to be appointed, should be abide by
the Official Languages Law and rules and regulations that
are imposed by the Government from time to time.
(ii) Sections 10-12 of the Chapter II of the Establishments
Code will be applicable.
(iii) Before the structured interview, applicants will be
examined to check whether they have physical
qualifications.
D. G . M. V . H
APUARACHCHI,
Commissioner General of Excise,
Excise Department of Sri Lanka.
06th August, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF EXCISE INSPECTOR IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE
01. (i) Name in full (in mother language) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full (in English) :––––––––––––.
(in block letters)
(iii) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :––––––––––––.
(iii) Grama Niladhari's Division :––––––––––––.
(iv) Police Station :––––––––––––.
(v) Nearest Excise Station :––––––––––––.
(vi) Postal Address :––––––––––––.
(For sending admission cards)
(vii) Telephone No. :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1703
03. Date of Birth :
Age as at 22.09.2014 :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
04. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka (state whether by descent or by
registration) :––––––––––––.
05. Nationality :––––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i)
Name and Year of University Subjects Class
the Degree obtained
(ii) Passed in the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) :
Passes for Mathematics and Index No. and
English subjects Year
09. If you are employed at present, give particulars :–––––––––––.
10. Particulars regarding sports certificates and extra activities :
–––––––––––.
11. Particulars regarding other special training/particulars regarding
voluntary services in Forces :–––––––––––.
12. (i) Height : ................cm (...............feet .................. inches)
(ii) Size of chest (when exhaled) ...........cm (...........inches)
13. Have you ever been convicted from any Court of Law for a
Criminal offence, if so give particulars regarding the offence and
the punishments :–––––––––––.
14. Name of the Bank to which money is paid :–––––––––––.
Bank Draft No. :–––––––––––.
Bank draft should be firmly affixed here.
15. I certify that particulars mentioned in this application by me are
true and correct. I know that I will be disqualified if any particulars
indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the selection
and I will be subject to dismissal from the service without any
compensation if detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–763/1
–––––––––––––––––––
EXCISE  DEPARTMENT  OF  SRI  LANKA
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the
Post of Excise Guard/Woman Excise Guard
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens for the Post
of Excise Guard/Woman Excise Guard in the Excise Department of
Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in 297mm x 210mm (A4) papers as per
the specimen form indicated in this notification should be sent to
"the Commissioner General of Excise, Department of Excise, No.
34, W. A. D. Ramanayake Mawatha, Colombo 02" on or before
22.09.2014 by the registered post. "Application for the Post of
Excise Guard/Woman Excise Guard" should be mentioned at the top
left hand croner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Applications should be completed and precise in all respects as
indicated in the notification and applications which are not so
completed and precise and which are not been received as at the
specified date will be rejected without any notice. Complaints
regarding the loss of applications or correspondence in that connection
in the post will not be entertained. The receipt of the applications
will not be acknowledged.
01. Method of Recruitment to the service.– Recruitment will be
made on the basis of marks obtained in the competitive examination
and the interview.
02. Particulars regarding the general duties of the post.– Field
duties should be conducted within the area assigned and investigation
and reporting of related information on Excise crimes including the
provision of assistance in such raids and in relevant judicial
proceedings. In addition, updating of excise criminal/technical reports
and documents including reserve duties of the office are the special
duties assigned to them.
03. Salary scale .– Rs. 14,280 -7x145 - 10x180 -17x240 -
Rs. 21,175 monthly salary is applicable for this Post. (RS-1-2006A
as per P. A. C. 6/2006iv).
04. Age limit.– Applicants should be not less than 18 years and
not more than 30 years as at 22.09.2014. The maximum age limit will
not be relevant to those who are already serving in the public service
or in the Provincial Public Service.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1704
05. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(i) The applicant should have passed six subjects at the
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination in one sitting
including English language with credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics.
(ii) The minimum height for Excise Guards measured bear
footed should be 162.5cm (5 feet and 04 inches). The
size of the chest when exhaled should be 81.2cm (32
inches). The height for Woman Excise Guards should be
157.5cm (5 feet and 02 inches).
(iii) Applicants should be with the minimum eye sight of
6/6 and 6/12 including the eye sight of identifying goods
without using spectacles or contact lenses.
(iv) Applicants should possess a good moral character. Female
applicants should be unmarried. Woman Excise Guards
who are recruited, will not be allowed to marry until
they complete the probation period and until they are
confirmed in the Post.
(v) Applicants should be physically fit enough to serve in
any part of the Island.
(vi) Priority will be given to applicants with talents in sports
and other extra curricular activities.
06. Particulars regarding the written examination :
Intelligence Test - 01 hour (100 marks)
General Knowledge - 01 hour (100 marks)
07. Marks will be allocated for the following qualifications at the
structured interview :
(i) Cricket/Football/Volleyball/athletics.
(ii) Scout/Cadet/Army V oluntary Service/Police Reserve
Service.
(iii) Martial Arts.
(iv) Leardership.
(v) Other Extra Activities/Personality.
08. Examination Fees .– Applicants should pay an amount of
Rs. 500 as the examination fees. Any bank draft obtained from any
of the bank branches to be credited to the Account No. 0007041628
of the Commissioner General of Excise in the Taprobane Branch of
the Bank of Ceylon should be sent along with the application. The
applicants are advised to keep a photocopy of the bank draft with
them. This amount will not be refunded.
09. Training Period.– First of all, the selected applicants will be
appointed as apprentice Excise Guards/Woman Excise Guards. And
those who complete at least 06 months training and get through
prescribed examinations they will be considered to be posted as
Excise Guards/Woman Excise Guards.
10. Probation period.– Applicants who complete the training
successfully will be appointed as Excise Guards/Woman Excise Guards
subject to a probation period of three (03) years. If they are able to
get through the Departmental Examinations that are prescribed to be
passed by them, they will be confirmed in the Post of Excise Guard/
Woman Excise Guard at the end of the probation period.
11. Conditions of the Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) They shall be directed to serve in any part of the Island.
12. Conditions of the Service :
(i) Applicants qualified to the appointed, should be abide
by the Official Languages Law and rules and regulations
that are imposed by the Government from time to time.
(ii) Sections 10-12 of the Chapter II of the Establishments
Code will be applicable.
(iii) Before the structured interview, applicants will be
examined to check whether they have physical
qualifications.
D. G . M. V . H
APUARACHCHI,
Commissioner General of Excise,
Excise Department of Sri Lanka.
06th August, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF EXCISE GUARDS/WOMAN EXCISE
GUARDS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXCISE
01. (i) Name in full (in mother language) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Name in full (in English) :––––––––––––.
(in block letters)
(iii) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
02. (i) Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(ii) Divisional Secretary's Division :––––––––––––.
(iii) Grama Niladhari's Division :––––––––––––.
(iv) Police Station :––––––––––––.
(v) Nearest Excise Station :––––––––––––.
(vi) Postal Address :––––––––––––.
(For sending admission cards)
(vii) Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
03. Date of Birth :––––––––––––.
Age as at 22.09.2014 :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
04. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka (state whether by descent or by
registration) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1705
05. Nationality :––––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
07. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i) Passes in the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subjects passed Grade
09. Occupations done/courses followed after leaving the school :
Name of the Period Institution If it is
occupation or From - To occupation,
course reason for
leaving
10. Particulars regarding sports certificates and extra activities :
–––––––––––.
11. Particulars regarding other special training undergone/particulars
regarding voluntary services in Forces :–––––––––––.
12. (i) Height : ................cm (...............feet .................. inches)
(ii) Size of chest (when exhaled) ...........cm (...........inches)
13. Have you ever been convicted from any Court of Law for a
Criminal offence, if so give particulars regarding the offence and
the punishments :–––––––––––.
14. Name of the Bank to which money is paid :–––––––––––.
Bank Draft No. :–––––––––––.
Bank draft should be firmly affixed here.
15. I certify that particulars mentioned in this application by me are
true and correct. I know that I will be disqualified if any particulars
indicated here are detected false or incorrect before the selection
and I will be subject to dismissal from the service without any
compensation if detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–763/2
––––––––––––––––
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  I  OF  THE
TRANSLATORS'  SERVICE - 2013(2014)
APPLICATIONS are  invited from qualified persons for recruitment
to Class I of the Translators' Service.
1.1 In this notice "Service" means the Translators' Service of
the Combined Services.
1.2 This examination will be held in Colombo by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations in the month of
December. The Director General of Combined Services
reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination.
Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the purpose of conducting examinations and they shall
be liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed by
Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of
these rules and regulations. Number of persons to be
appointed on the results of the examination and the
effective date of appointments will be determined by the
Appointing Authority. The Appointing Authority
reserves the right to refrain from filling all or some of the
vacancies. The number of vacancies to be filled will be
determined by the Appointing Authority depending on
the national requirement.
2.0 Recruitment will be made for the following media :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil - Tamil/Sinhala
(ii) Sinhala/English - English/Sinhala
(iii) Tamil/English - English/Tamil
3.0 Structure and Salary Scale.– As per the Public Administration
Circular No. 06/2006(IV), dated 24.08.2007 Salary Code Number of
Class I of Translators Service subject is MN-6-2006A and accordingly,
monthly salary scale of Class I of translators' service is Rs. 21,245 -
10x365 - 15x450 - Rs. 31,645. Officers are required to pass first
efficiency bar before reaching 4th salary step.
No.  exemption will be made from the requirement of passing
efficiency bar on completion of 45 years of age. (As per P. A. Circular
20/2001 dated 12.09.2001).

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1706
4.0 Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be appointed
to Class I of the Translators' Service subject to the general conditions
governing the appointments to the Public Service and on the terms
and conditions set out in the Minute of the Translators' Service
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Repubilc of Sri Lanka No. 829/7 of 26.07.1994 and any amendments
already made and would be made thereto in future.
5.0 Selected candidates will be required to submit themselves to
a medical examination by a Government Medical Officer before
assuming duties and if it is found that the candidate is not physically
fit to serve in any part of the Island the appointment will not take
effect.
6.0 Qualifications.– The candidate should –
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Have a credit pass in the first language at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination or at an equivalent examination ;
and
A credit pass in the second language at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination or at an equivalent examination or any
acceptable higher qualification in the second language ;
and
(iii) (a) be a graduate of a recognized university ;
or
(b) an Attorney-at-Law ;
or
(c) a holder of Advanced Diploma in Commerce of a
recognised Technical College or Polytechnic College ;
or
(d) a holder of Advanced National Diploma in Management
of the Open University ;
or
(e) a holder of National Diploma in Technology of the
University of Moratuwa.
Note 1.– The effective date of the above degree or certificates
should be on or before the application closing date.
(iv) Be not below 21 years and not above 40 years of age on
the last day of the month preceding the month in which
the closing date for applications falls i. e. 31.08.2014 (The
upper age limit will not apply to the officers who are
holding permanent posts in the Public or Provincial Public
Service).
Note 2.– A candidate who has passed in any two subjects with
Sinhala, Tamil and English at the Degree Examination, will
be placed two steps above the initial salary of the scale.
7.0 Examination Fees.– The fee for the examination is Rs. 500.
Fees should be paid to any District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited
to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 before the closing date of the
applications. The receipt received should be affixed in the relevant
cage of the application. Fees are not refundable. It is advisable to
keep a photocopy of the cash receipt with the candidate.
8.0 Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by
the candidate him/herself on A-4 size papers using both
sides of the papers. It should be specially noted that the
application forms should be so prepared that cages 1 to 7
appear on the first side of the paper, 8 to 11 appear on the
other side of the paper and 12 to 13 on the 3rd page. The
title of the examination appearing in the specimen should
be indicated in English language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms.
(b) The application should be prepared in the language in
which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
(c) Candidates' signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
Justice of Peace, Commissioner for Oaths, Attorney-at-
Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces, an Officer holding a Gazetted post in the Police
Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in the Public
Service whose annual salary is more than Rs. 240,360.
(d) The completed applications should be sent by registered
post to the "Commissioner - General of Examinations,
organization and Foreign examination Branch, Department
of Examinations - Sri Lanka, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo" so
as to reach him on or before 22nd of September 2014.
Applications received after that date will not be accepted.
The top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application should clearly bear the words "Open
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Translators' Service - 2013(2014)".
(e) The candidates who are in the Public Service at present
should submit their applications through the Head of the
Department under whom they serve. A candidate who
fails to do so, will be considered as disqualified. Candidates
are requested to submit their applications to the Head of
the Department as early as possible to enable him to
forward them to the Commissioner General of
Examinations on or before 22nd of September 2014.
(f) Any application which is not complete in every respect is
liable to be rejected without notice. Complaints on
applications' getting lost or delayed in the post will not be
considered.
(g
) Receipt of applications shall not be acknowledged. A notice
shall be published in the newspapers by the Department
of Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to
applicants. If the admission card is not received even after
2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall be taken
to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner
specified in the advertisement. When informing, the name
of the examination applied for, full name, address and the

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1707
NIC number of the candidate shall be indicated. It would
be advisable for candidates outside Colombo to fax a letter
of request along with a fax number to the candidate to the
Department of Examinations through the fax number
mentioning the notification for sending a copy of the
admission. Further, it would be advisable to keep a copy
of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment
of examination fee and the receipt of registration of the
application to prove any information requested by the
Department of Examination.
9.0 Admission to the Examination :
(a) On the assumption that only those who possess the
qualifications will send in applications, the Commissioner
General of examinations will issue admission cards to all
persons whose applications have been received. A candidate
presenting for the examination must produce his/her
admission card to the supervisor of the examination centre.
A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card
will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) The candidate must sit the examination at the examination
hall which has been assigned to him/her. Every candidate
should get his/her signature attested in advance and
admission card shall be surrendered to the supervisor of
the hall on the first day he/she presents him/herself for the
examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates
is published in this Gazette.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that he/she has the required qualifications
to sit the examination.
10.0 Identification of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to
prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of
the supervisor for each subject offered. For this purpose any of the
following documents will be accepted.
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) A valid passport.
11.0 Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If any of the particulars
furnished by a candidate is found to be false within his knowledge or
if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable
to dismissal from the Public Service.
12.0 Method of Examination.– It consists of two parts. i. e. written
examination and an interview.
12.1 Written Examination.– Question papers on the following
subjects.
(a) Translation - 100 marks - 3 hour duration
(b) English Language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 duration
(c) Sinhala Language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 duration
(d) Tamil Language - 100 marks - 1 1/2 duration
(e) Comprehension - 100 marks - 1 1/2 duration
12.1.1 Syllabus :
(a) Translation.– Translation of difficult passages
taken from official, scientific, legal and technical
documents and classical literature including
extracts from an official document, report or
newspaper article either (i) or (ii) or (iii) or of the
following :
(i) From Sinhala to Tamil and Tamil to Sinhala,
(ii) From Sinhala to English and English to Sinhala,
(iii) From Tamil to English and English to Tamil.
(A high standard of competence is expected
in translation)
Note.– English/Sinhala/Tamil Language Paper .– For this
purpose question papers will be designed in three
languages and the candidate should sit for the relevant
papers in two languages.
(b) English Language .– An essay, summary,
construction of sentences using words to bring
out their meaning, explaining the meaning of
idioms, analysis of compound and complex
sentences into clauses.
(c) Sinhala Language.– A candidate will be required
to write an essay, to make a pre'cis, to summarize
a given passage in candidate's own words, to
construct sentences using words to bring out their
meaning, to correct grammatical errors in sentences
and to explain the meaning of idioms.
(d) Tamil Language.– A candidate will be required to
write an essay, to make a pre'
cis to summarize a
given passage in candidates own words, to
construct sentences using words to bring out their
meaning, to correct grammatical errors in sentences
and to explain the meaning of idioms.
(e) Comprehension.– The comprehension paper will
be prepared in Sinhala/Tamil/English languages and
the candidates are allowed to answer the question
papers in one of the languages according to their
choice.
Candidates will be given a set of passages and also
candidates will be presented with a set of
alternative statements one of which fits the content
of the passage best. he would be required to pick
the most appropriate statement. In case of other
passages questions will be set to test the extent to
which the candidate is able to grasp the meaning
of the passage.
N. B.– Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and
spelling mistakes. A candidate whose handwriting
is illegible is liable to be disqualified.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1708
12.1.2 A candidate will be required to obtain a minimum
of 40 percent in each paper and candidates will be
selected for appointments in the merit order of
the aggregate marks depending on the number of
existing vacancies.
12.2 Interview.– An interview will be held to examine the
eligibility, educational certificates and the physical fitness
of the candidates. No marks shall be awarded for this
purpose.
13.0 All applicants should read the Gazette Notification carefully
before the application form is completed. Relevant codes should be
written correctly and no appeals will be considered regarding any
corrections due to mistakes or inadvertence. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the application and the cash receipt with the candidate.
13.1 Examination Results.– The result sheet which prepared
according to the merit order of the total marks scored by
the candidates, who qualified as per the section 12.1.2
of this notification will be forwarded to the Director
General of Combined Services by the Commissioner
General of Examination. Issuance of the results
personally to all the applicants who have sat for this
examination or publishing of the results in the website -
www.results.exam.gov .lk  will be done by the
Department of examination Sri Lanka.
14.0 This examination notification will be published in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages and in case of any inconsistency among
texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. Any matter not referred to herein
will be decided by the Director General of Combined Services. All
the applicants bound by the general rules and regulations mentioned
in this Gazette Notification.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
08th August, 2014.
Specimen Form of Application
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS I  OF  THE  TRANSLATORS'
SERVICE - 2013(2014)
(For office use only)
01. Indicate below the post, which you compete for in the Translators'
Service :
(i) Sinhala/Tamil Translator 01
(ii) Sinhala/English Translator 02
(iii) Tamil/English Translator 03
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
02.Language medium of Examination :
Sinhala/Tamil - 1
Sinhala/English - 2
Tamil/English - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
03. (i) Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
Eg.– GUNAWARDHANA  M. G . B. S. K.
(ii) Name in full :
(i) In English :–––––––––––.
(ii) In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
(iii) Number of the N. I. C. :
04. (i) Address to which the application should be sent (in English
block capitals) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Address to which the application should be sent (in Sinhala/
Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Official Address (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
(iv) Telephone No. :
05. (i) Sex :
Female 1
Male 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(ii) Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
(iii) Ethnicity :
Sinhala 01
Lanka Tamil 02
Indian Tamil 03
Muslim 04
Other 05
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
06. Whether married or single :
Married 1
Single 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
07. (i) Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 22.09.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
08. Particulars of educational qualifications you possess to appear
for this examination as per para 6.0 of this Gazette Notification :
(a) (i) Name of the degree OR the certificate which qualifies
you to apply :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1709
(ii) Name of the establishment from which the said
certificate was obtained :–––––––––––.
(iii) The effective date of the degree or certificate :–––––.
(iv) Langauge medium of the degree :–––––––––––.
(v) Other languages passed at the degree :
(1) –––––––––––.
(2) –––––––––––.
(b) (i) The G . C. E. (O/L) Examination OR the similar
examination from which a credit pass was obtained
for the first language :–––––––––––.
Year :–––––––––––.
(ii) The G . C. E. (O/L) Examination from which a credit
pass was obtained for the 2nd language OR the
examination from which a similar qualifications were
obtained :
Exam :–––––––––––. Y ear :–––––––––––.
09. Whether you are holding a permanent post in Public or Provincial
Public Service at present :
Yes/No
Name of the Post :–––––––––––.
Present Institution :–––––––––––.
Date of Appointment :–––––––––––.
10. Affix the receipt so as not to be detached :
11. I declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the
information given in this form is true and that I have affixed the
receipt No. .................... dated ................ being payment of the
examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is
found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this
examination.
I have carefully read the Gazette Notification and understood
the contents thereof before completing this application form,
and in case of any error in Code Numbers, or in the information
supplied due to any mistake or inadvertence on my part, I promise
to bear the loss caused thereby, and not to lodge any appeal in
that connection. ("Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by Commissioner - General of Examinations
on conducting of the exam and issuance of results).
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. Attestation of the Appilcant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... residing at
................................. is personally known to me and that he/she
signed before me on ...........................
Signature of the person attesting :–––––––––––.
Name and Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(Official Stamp)
Note.– The signatures of the persosn in public service should
be certified by the relevant Head of the Department or by
an officer authorized to do so on behalf of him.
13. Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that the particulars given by this applicant in paras 07,
08 and 09 are correct, his/her work and conduct are satisfactory
and that he/she has satisfied the qualifications as per Gazette
Notification to appear for this examination.
He/She can be released from service if selected.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and
Official Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer,
Attesting the Signature :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
08–850
–––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY   BAR   EXAMINATION   PRESCRIBED
FOR   OFFICERS   IN  SEGMENT   "B"   AND   SEGMENT
"A"   OF   CLASS   II  OF   THE   SRI   LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL   SERVICE  -  2014
IT is hereby notified that, in accordance with the approved service
minute of Sri Lanka Technological Service, the above mentioned
examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, in Colombo, in the month of November 2014.
02.(i) These examinations will be conducted by the
Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates
will be bound by the ruels and regulations prescribed by
him in respect of conducting the examination and issuing
the results. The candidates will be subjected to a
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations, if such rules are violated by them.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of this Gazette notification.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1710
03. The specimen application for admission to this examination
is published at the end of this notification. Candidates are required to
prepare their applications in accordance with the specimen form and
officers of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the public service should
forward their applications through the respective head of department
and officers of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the Provincial
Public Service should forward their applications through the Secretary
of PSC in the Provincial Council where they serve, by registered
post to reach the Commissioner General of examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examination Branch, Department of
Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Colombo on or before 22nd of
September 2014. The top left corner of the envelope containing the
applciation should bear clearly the title of the examination.
Applications received after the closing date of application will be
rejected.
04. Identity cards.– Candidates should prove their identity at the
examination hall to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject
they offer. For this purpose any of the following documents will be
accepted :
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any applicant who is unable to furnish any of
the above documents is liable to cancellation on the discretion of
Commisioner General of Examinations.
05. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper A4 in size.
No. 01 to 07 should appear on the first page whilst the
rest should appear on other pages. Applications could be
typed but they should be completed correctly and legibly
by the candidate in his/her own handwriting and in the
language medium in which the candidate sits this
examination.
(ii) When the application form is prepared, the title of the
examination appearing in the specimen should be indicated
in English Language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. Applications which are incomplete
and not prepared in accordance with the specimen form
will be rejected without any notice. It is the responsibility
of the candidate to make sure that the appilcation form
perfected by him/her self complies with the specimen
given in the examination notice and it would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
(iii) The candidates appearing for the examination for the first
time need not pay examination fees. However, for
subsequent sittings, a fee of Rs. 400 should be paid for
the whole examination and if only one subject is offered,
a fee of Rs. 200 should be paid. The fee can be paid at any
District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue
Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examination and the receipt obtained thus should be
affixed firmly in the relevant cage. It would be advisable
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
Under no circumstance, will the fee be refunded not
transferred in respect of other examinations.
(iv) This examination is held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. Applicants should select one medium relevant to
them and they should answer the question papers in one
and the same language selected by them. The medium
they applied for is not allowed to change at a later occasion.
(v) An officer is not allowed to sit for both Efficiency Bar
Examinations at one and the same occasion.
(vi) The officers who have been appointed to Segment II B of
Sri Lanka Technological Service as at the closing date of
the application can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination
in Segment II B.
(vii) However, the officers in segment II A as well as the officers
in Class II segment 'B' who have completed a service
period of five years and passed the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination can sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination in
class II segment 'A'.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with a copy of the time table to all candidates
whose applications have been received. A candidate sitting for the
examination must produce his admission card which bears the
candidate's signature and duly attested to the supervisor of the
examination center. A candidate who fails to produce his admission
card will not be permitted to sit the examination. A notification will
be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken to
notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to keep the following in
hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations : i. e.
certified photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept at
your possession, receipt of registration. In case of applicants outside
Colombo, a letter of request with a fax number to which the admission
card should be sent and other particulars mentioned above should be
sent to the Department of Examination by fax.
07. The documents furnished later by the candidates who have
failed to satisfy the requirement indicated in para (06) above will not
be considered.
08. Officers may, if they so which, present themselves for different
subjects separately at different examinations. However, in order to
secure a pass at least 40% of the marks should be obtained in respect
of each question paper.
09. Issue of the results of the examination.– In accordance with
the particulars indicated in para 3 above, the results of the candidates
belonging to Provincial Public Service will be issued to the Secretary
of the respective Provincial Public Service Commission and the results

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1711
of the candidates belonging to public service will be issued to the
Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration.
10. Scheme of Examinations :
(1) The Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Class II
Segment "B" will consist of 02 question papers.
Subject No. (01) - Office Administration and
Establishments Code - (Two hours)
- 100 marks
Subject No. (02) - Financial Regulations - (Two
hours) - 100 marks
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject
No. 01) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapter of
Establishments Code.
Chapter II Recruitment Procedure and Appointment.
Chapter III Transfers.
Chapter IV Grant of Monthly Pay, Temporary
Status, Permanent status and
Pensionability.
Chapter V Release, Reversion and Termination of
Employment.
Chapter VIII Overtime, Holidays, Holiday Pay and
Allowances.
Chapter XII Leave.
Chapter XIII Railway Warrants.
Chapter XIV Travel on duty within the Island.
Chapter XIX Government Quarters.
Chapter XLVII General Conduct and discipline.
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 02) - Syllabus.
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Financial Regulations.
(1) Chapter I
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue.
The Consolidated Fund and Planning and
Programming of Expenditure, Form of Presentation
of Annual Estimates, New Proposals, Preparation
Submission and Passing of Estimates of Expenditure,
Variations to Estimates of Expenditure.
(FR 1 to 68)
(2) Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability.
Chief Accounting Officers, Accounting Officers,
Revenue Officers, Authorization, Approval,
Certification, Delegation of Authority.
(FR. 124 to 147)
(2) The Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class II
Segment "A" will consist of 02 question papers.
Subject No. 03 - Office Administration and
Establishments Code. (Two hours)
100 marks.
Subject No. 04 - Financial Regulations - (Two hours)
100 marks
Office Administration and Establishments Code (Subject
No. 03) - Syllabus :
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Estalibshments Code.
Chapter XV Travel abroad for study, training or on
duty.
Chapter XVI Holiday Travel.
Chapter XXIII Special concessions and conditions
regarding Officers suffering from certain
types of illnesses.
Chapter XXIV Salary Loans and Advances.
Chapter XXV Concessions to members of Trade
Unions.
Chapter XXVII Channels of communication.
Chapter XXVIII Administrative procedures.
Chapter XXX Right of Government over its Officers.
Chapter XXXIII Legal advice and legal actions.
Chapter XLVII General conduct and discipline.
Chapter XLVIII Rules of disciplinary procedure.
Circulars issued on performance appraisal.
Financial Regulations (Subject No. 04) - Syllabus.
This paper will be based on the following Chapters of
Financial Regulations.
(1) Chapter VI
Custody of Public Money etc., Imprests and Bank
Accounts.
Security and custody of Public etc., Counterfoil
Books, Boards of Survey on Cash Stamps etc.,
Imprests, Bank Accounts.
(FR. 315 to 396)
(2) Chapter XIII
Supplies, Works and Services,
Procurement and Contracts, Supplies, Custody and
V erification of Stores, Surplus and unserviceable
Articles.
(FR. 685 to 775)
11. The decision of the Secretary, Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs will be the final in respect of any
matter not provided for in this notification.
12. Issue of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that his/her eligibility to sit for the examination has been
accepted.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1712
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette notification, the Sinhala text shall
prevail as the accurate text.
P. B. ABEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
08th August, 2014.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINA TION PRESCRIBED
FOR OFFICERS IN SEGMENT "B" AND SEGMENT "A"
OF CLASS II OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE - 2014
(Applications for "B" and "A" segments cannot be submitted at
one and the same time)
Medium in which you sit for the Examination
(Sinhala - 2/Tamil - 3/English - 4)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination which you apply
(II 'B' - 0/II 'A' - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. ( a) Name with initials : (Indicate the initials at the end of the
name) :––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(Eg.– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.)
(b) Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(c) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Official address : (Admissions will be psoted to this address) :
––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. Sex :
(Male - 0/Female - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04.Telephone Number :
05. National Identity Card Number :
06. Subject/Subjects offered :
Subject offered for the Class II Segment B/Class II Segment A
Efficiency Bar Examination (delete inapplicable words)
Subject Subject No.
..............................
..............................
07. Whether you belong to the Provincial Public Service or Public
Service :
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
(Public Service - 10/Western Provincial Public Service - 01/Central
Provincial Public Service - 02/Southern Provincial Public Service
- 03/North Provincial public Service - 04/Eastern Provincial Public
Service - 05/Northwestern Provincial Pubilc Service - 06/North
Central Provincial Pubilc Service - 07/Uva Provincial Public
Service - 08/Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service - 09)
08. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Age as at 22.09.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
09. (i) Designation :––––––––––––.
(ii) Class and Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service :–––––.
(should be included as II A/II B)
(iii) Service period in the above class and grade as at 22.09.2014
:––––––––––––.
10. Department which you belong to :––––––––––––.
Affix the receipt of examination fee here.
(It would be advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
I declare that the particulars furnished above are accurate and
I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. Further, I agree to abide by the ruels imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination on conducting the
examination and issuing the results.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'08'22
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.08.2014
1713
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence of the Head of Department or an officer duly authorized to sign on his behalf.
Attestation of Candidate's Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ is presently employed in my office and is well known to me and he/she
placed his/her signature in my presence on ..................... 2014.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraphs 1 - 10 above are correct and this candidate is eligible to sit for th e
examination and also eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned above.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and designation of Head of Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
08–820
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
B5 - B80867