

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2179
2179
wxl 1"939 - 2015 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'10'30
No. 1,939 – FRIDAY , OCTOBER 30, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2182
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2196
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th November, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th
November, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”.
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.—    The list of Jurors in Polonnaruwa Jurisdiction area in year 2015 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala and Tamil
languages only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2180
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2181
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS.
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2182
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Post of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
PUTTALAM   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration Divisions and should be entitled to
properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries.
07. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th of
November, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
08th October, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Arachchikattuwa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Pulichchakulama Area of Pitigal General, District Secretariat,
Koralaya North Division Puttalam.
10–1036
–––––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Recruitment to the Post of Apprentice Surveyors in
Sri Lanka Survey Department
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka
possessing the following qualifications to recruit for the post of
Apprentice Surveyors in Sri Lanka Survey Department. Applications
prepared as per the specimen given below should be sent by registered
post to reach to "The Surveyor General, Surveyor General's Office,
No. 150, Kirula Road, Narahenpita, Colombo 05" on or before
30.11.2015. The wording "Application for the Post of Apprentice
Surveyors" should be clearly written on the top left hand corner of
the envelope containing the application. Applications sent through
other means except by post will be rejected.
02. All the applicants should ensure that the following requirements
have been fulfilled :
(a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Should have excellent moral character and physically sound.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2183
(c) The age should not be less than 22 years and more than 33
years as at the closing date of application.
(d) Should have completed all the educational qualifications as
at the closing date of calling for application and applications
should not be forwarded expecting results.
03. Conditions of Service :
(i) Salary.– The consolidated monthly salary scale assigned
to this post is as follows :
P.A. Circular No. 06/2006(iv) MN-5-2006A
Rs. 16,720 - 10x320 -11x365 -15 x450 - Rs. 30,685.
(ii) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(iii) Selected candidates will be appointed to the post of
Apprentice Surveyors in Sri Lanka Survey Department
subject to the general conditions governing the
appointments of the public service and to the conditions
specified in the Surveyors' Service Minute published in
the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1434/5 dated 27.02.2006
of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and to the
amendments which have been made or may be made
from time to time to said minute.
04. Conditions of Appointment :
(i) Officers who recruited should undergo initial training in
departmental matters.
(ii) They are bound to furnish security to the amount of
Rs. 25,000 for the government stores issued to them.
(iii) After completion of training period, they are subject to
serve as a surveyor in Sri Lanka Surveyors' service for a
period of 06 years in Survey Department and they are
required to enter into an agreement and a security bond
with a surety having assets worth not less than a sum of
Rs. 150,000 for that purpose.
(iv) Seniority of the selected officers will be decided on the
results of the written examination held after the initial
training given after the recruitment.
05. Educational Qualifications.– Should have obtained a Degree
in Surveying Science from a University or Institution recognized by
the University Grants Commission.
06. Method of Selection.– Selection will be made on the results of
an interview. All the surveying science graduates, who have fulfilled
relevant qualifications, of the applicants, are called for an interview
and originals of the following documents and set of photocopies
should be produced at the itnerview.
(i) Certificate of Birth.
(ii) Degree certificate and the other educational certificates.
(iii) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or a valid Passport.
(iv) Two Character Certificates - One of this should be
from the Grama Niladhari, of your area, counter - signed
by the Divisional Secretary concerned.
07. Applications which are not fulfilled the necessary conditions
and which are received after the due date will be rejected.
08. If any candidate is found not to have prescribed qualifications,
his/her appointment can be cancelled at any time.
09. Candidates already employed in the Public Service should
forward their applications through the Head of Department.
Complaints for any loss of application will be rejected.
10. Surveyor General has power to postpone to cancel this
recruitment and to determine the number of recruitment. If any
discrepancy found in this Gazette Notification in Sinhala, Tamil and
English languages, Sinhala language terms stand.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
P.M.P. U
DAYAKANTHA,
Surveyor General,
Sri Lanka Survey Department.
No. 150, Kirula Road,
Narahenpita,
Colombo 05,
15th October, 2015.
APPLICATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POSTS OF
APPRENTICE SURVEYORS IN SRI LANKA SURVEY
DEPARTMENT
01. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(in English block capitals Eg. : Silva, A. B)
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––.
1.5 Date of issue :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent Address :––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Postal Address :––––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
03. Telephone No. :
Mobile :––––––––––––. Re sidence :––––––––––––.
04. Citizenship :––––––––––––.
(Whether by descent or by registration, if by registration, give
registration No.)

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2184
05. Sex :
Female - 1,  Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant No. in the cage)
06. Civil Status :––––––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
7.1 Age as at the closing date of the application :
Years :––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Dates :–––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
(i) University/Institution :––––––––––––.
(ii) Degree and Year of Graduation :––––––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number and Date :––––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––––––.
(v) Index No. :––––––––––––.
(vi) Class (Upper/Lower) :––––––––––––.
(vii) Medium of Language in which you appeared for the
exam :––––––––––––.
09. Details of the courses in Computer Science followed :–––––––.
10. Proficiency in other languages in addition to the mother tongue
and examinations passed :––––––––––––.
11. Other Performances and Qualifications :––––––––––––.
12. If ever convicted of any criminal offence in a Court of Law, give
full particulars of it :––––––––––––.
13. If you are already in government service, state whether you had
been subjected to interdiction from service as at the date of
receiving applications :––––––––––––.
I do certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct.
I am aware that if any of the particulars furnished by me in this
application are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification for the selection and to dismissal from service.
Further, I declare that I agree to all the conditions specified in the
Gazette published in this regard.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
(This is applicable only to the candidates already employed in the
Public Service).
............................
............................
............................
Surveyor General,
The particulars furnished by Mr./Mrs./Miss ...............................
who serves in this institution is correct. He/She has not been subjected
to any disciplinary action and he/she can be/cannot be released from
the service if he/she is selected for the post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official Frank)
Date :––––––––––––.
10-1148
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Education
RECRUITMENT TO CLASS 3 OF THE SRI LANKA
TEACHER EDUCATORS’ SERVICE
AS per the decision of the Cabinet bearing No. CP/02/1904/128/086
dated 22.01.2003, applications will be accepted by the Secretary to
the Ministry of Education for filling the vacancies existed up to
01.12.2012 for the subjects, Special Education, Western Music, Arts,
Music, Physical Education, Information and Communication
Technology, Technological Subjects and Christianity in Class 3 of
the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service which is under the Ministry
of Education.
2.0 Applications prepared as per the specimen indicated at the
end of this notification should be sent by the Registered post to
reach “The Secretary, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla” on or before 30.11.2015. “Subject applied for” and
“Vacancies in the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators’ Service” should be
mentioned on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
applications. Applications of all the candidates should be submitted
through the respective Heads of their departments. Applications
received after the specified date will be rejected.
3.0 Qualifications.– Officers holding permanent posts in the Sri
Lanka Teachers’ Service, Sri Lanka Principals’ Service or in the Sri
Lanka Education Administrative Service and have a Satisfactory
Service of 03 years by 31.12.2012 are eligible to be applied for the
post and the qualifications to be fulfilled for each subject have been
indicated in the Schedule I.
4.0 Method of Recruitment :
4.1 Recruitment will be made on the results of a structured
interview conducted by an Interview Board and according
to a Marking Scheme which are approved by the Public
Service Commission and on the results of a practical test
conducted by an Itnerview Board approved by the Public
Service Commission. (The relevant Marking Scheme has
been mentioned in the Schedule 2).

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2185
4.2 The originals of the following documents should be
presented at the interview :
4.2.1 The Degree Certificate and Certificates of Education
Qualifications.
4.2.2 Certificates on professional qualifications.
4.2.3 All the certificates submitted for obtaining marks as
per the marking scheme.
4.3 Candidates are allowed to apply for 03 institutions under
one field of subject and separate applications should be
forwarded by applicants who are willing to apply for more
than one field of subject. Subsequent to filling the vacancies
of the Colleges of Education based on the merit order of
marks obtained by the candidates, the vacancies exist in
the Teachers' Training Colleges and Teachers' Centres will
be filled respectively.
5.0 Conditions of employing in the service :
5.1 The Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission
are applicable for the appointment.
5.2 This appointment is temporary. The officers recruited with
the qualifications lower than the basic qualifications
stipulated in the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka Teacher
Educators' Service dated 11.03.1999 should fulfill the basic
qualifications mentioned in that Service Minute within the
concessionary period of 05 years with effect from the date
of recruitment. The officers will be issued a temporary
letter of appointment until they fulfill the basic
qualifications :
5.2.1 Degree or Diploma holders should obtain a Post
Graduate Degree in Education or a Post Graduate
Diploma in Education with a Distinction or a Credit
Pass or a Degree in Education with First/Second Class
Honours within the concessionary period.
5.2.2 Officers who have obtained a Teacher Training
Certificate should obtain a Degree on the relevant
subject and a Post Graduate Diploma in Education
with a Distinction or a Credit pass during the
concessionary period.
5.2.3 The officers who are unable to fulfill the prescribed
qualifications will be reverted to the Post that they
had held earlier.
6.0 Age limit.– Not applicable.
7.0 General Qualifications :
7.1 Officers should possess an excellent moral character and
should be in a good health condition to serve in any part of
the country.
7.2 All the qualifications necessary for the recruitment to the
Post as per this notification should have been fulfilled in all
respects by 31.12.2012.
8.0 Salary Scale.– This appointment is temporary. Accordingly,
an amount of Rs. 22,935 will be paid to you as the monthly salary
until the basic requirements are fulfilled by you. The officers who
are drawing a salary less than that will be paid the salary which is
drawn by them at present and a monthly allowance of Rs. 250
instead of paying them the increments.
Please Note :
* No certificate or a photocopy should be sent along with
the application.
* Applications of officers who are unable to submit necessary
documents at the interview will not be considered and
documents submitted after the interview will not be
accepted.
* If the certificates produced by an applicant for
substantiating the educational and professional
qualifications have been obtained from a foreign university,
it is compulsory for the applicant to submit a certificate of
confirmation at the interview in order to substantiate that
the University has been recognized by the University
Grants Commission.
* The decision of the Public Service Commission in relation
to filling of these vacancies will be the final.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
W. M. B
ANDUSENA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
14th October, 2015.
SCHEDULE I
Serial Subject Educational and Professional Medium No. of V acancies and the
No. Qualifications places where vacancies exist
01 Special Education (i) The officers should have obtained an
experience for not less than 7 years with a
certificate on the Teacher Training in the
relevant subject.
Sinhala 1 V acancy
Hapitigama National College of
Education (Braille)
Tamil 2 Vacancies
Addalachchenai National College of
Education
Jaffna National College of Education

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2186
02 Technological Subjects (i) The officers should have obtained an
experience for not less than 7 years with a
(i) Mechanical certificate on Teacher Training in the relevant
Technology subject.
(ii) Arts and Crafts
(iii) Electrical and
Electronic
Technology
(iv) Food T echnology
03 Information and (i) Should have obtained a Degree in the
Communication relevant subject from a recognized
Technology uni versity ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a Degree with Computer
Science or information Technology as a subject
from a recognized university ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Diploma in the relevant
subject conducted by the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka or should have
obtained a National Diploma in Teaching
Information Technology with a Distinction/
Credit Pass.
04 Western Music (i) Teacher Training Certificate in relation to the
relevant subject ; or
(ii) A Diploma obtained from an examination
conducted by the Department of
Examinations, Sri Lanka and should have an
experience in teaching for not less than 7 years
(Relevant subjects are the subjects of the courses
which are conducted at the National College of
Education)
Sinhala 1 Vacancy
1 Siyane National College of
Education
1 vacancy
3 Siyane National College of
Education
Tamil 1 vacancy
1 Batticaloa National College of
Education
1 vacancy
2 Batticaloa National College of
Education
1 vacancy
3 Batticaloa National College of
Education
1 vacancy
4 Dharganagar National College
of  Education
1. Mechanical Technology
2. Arts
3. Electrical and Electronic
Technology
4. Food Technology
English 6 vacancies
Ruwanpura National College of
Education
Sariputta National College of
Education
Mahaweli National College of
Education
Vavuniya National College of
Education
English 1 vacancy
Mahaweli National College of
Education
Serial Subject Educational and Professional Medium No. of Vacancies and the
No. Qualifications places where vacancies exist

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2187
05 Arts (i) Should have an experience for not less than
7 years with a Certificate on Teacher Training
in the relevant subject
06 Music (i) Should have an experience for not less than
7 years with a Certificate on Teacher Training
in the relevant subject.
07 Physical Education (i) Should have an experience not less than 7 years
with a Certificate of Teacher Training in the
relevant subject
Sinhala 12 vacancies
Wayamba National College of
Education
Pasdunrata National College of
Education
Mahaweli National College of
Education
Nilwala National College of
Education
Hapitigama National College of
Education
Dabedeniya National College of
Education
Nittabuwa National College of
Education
Sripada National College of
Education
Pulathisipura National College of
Education
Uva National College of
Education
Ruwanpura National College of
Education
Tamil 4 vacancies
Batticaloa National College of
Education
Addalachchenai National College
of Education
Jaffna National College of
Education
Sri Pada National College of
Education
Tamil 6 vacancies
Sri Pada National College of
Education
Batticaloa National College of
Education
Addalachchenai National College
of  Education
Dharganagar National College of
Education
Sinhala 9 vacancies
Uva National College of
Education
Peradeniya National College of
Education
Dabedeniya National College of
Education
Pasdunrata National College of
Education
Mahaweli National College of
Education
Serial Subject Educational and Professional Medium No. of V acancies and the
No. Qualifications places where vacancies exist

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2188
08 Christianity (i) Should have obtained a First or Second Class
Degree in Education in relevant subject from a
recognized university ; or
(ii) Should have obtained a First or Second Class
Degree in the relevant field of subject from a
recognized university ; or
(iii) Should have obtained a Degree in the relevant
field of subject and a Post Graduate Degree in
the relevant field of subject from a recognized
university ; or
(iv) Should have obtained a Degree in the relevant
field of subject from a recognized university
and should have obtained a Post Graduate
Diploma in Education with an experience in
teaching for not less than 7 years
Nilwala National College of
Education
Siyane National College of
Education
Wayambe National College of
Education
Hapitigama National College of
Education
Tamil 7 vacancies
Jaffna National College of
Education
Sri Pada National College of
Education
Batticaloa National College of
Education
Vavuniya National College of
Education
Addalachchenai National College
of  Education
Sinhala 1 vacancy
Wayambe National College of
Education
Serial Subject Educational and Professional Medium No. of Vacancies and the
No. Qualifications places where vacancies exist
SCHEDULE 02
MARKING SCHEME OF THE STRUCTURED INTERVIEW AND THE PRACTICAL EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITING TO CLASS 3 OF THE
SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCATORS' SERVICE
(For the other subjects except Information Communication Technology)
Part 1 - Structured Interview - Maximum marks will be 50
01. Educational Qualifications Maximum 20 marks
(For qualifications obtained in addition to the qualifications specified in the Schedule 1)
(Marks will be offered only for the Highest Certificate obtained)
1.1 Doctorate Degree 20
(In Education or in the relevant subject)
1.2 Post Graduate Degree 15
(In Education or in the relevant subject)
1.3 Post Graduate Diploma 10

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2189
02. Proficiency in English Language Maximum 10 Marks
(For qualifications obtained in addition to the qualifications specified in the Schedule 1)
(Marks will be offered only for the Highest Certificate obtained)
2.1 Having followed English as a subject for the Degree 10
2.2 Having studied the Degree in the English Medium 08
2.3 Having passed the G . C. E. (A. Level) Examination with English as a subject 06
2.4 Having followed the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) in English Medium 05
2.5 Having followed a Diploma Course in a university or in a recognized institution (One Year or more) 04
2.6 Having followed a certificate course in a recognized University 02
03. Knowledge in Information Technology Maximum 10 Marks
(For qualifications obtained in addition to the qualifications specified in the Schedule 1)
(Marks will be offered only for the Highest Certificate obtained)
3.1 Having followed Information Technology as a subject for the Degree/Post Graduate Degree 10
in Information Technology
3.2 Diploma Course in Information Technology 06
(1 year or more)
3.3 Certificate Course in Information Technology 04
(More than 06 months)
04. Academic Performance (In relation to the Field of Education) Maximum 05 Marks
4.1 Research and Tutorials
(Researches and Tutorials submitted for the Degree/Post Graduate Degree/Post Graduate 03
Diploma or for the Doctorate will not be applicable under this Heading)
4.2 Publications (Published in popular magazines or newspapers) 02
05. Interview Skill Maximum 05 Marks
Total Marks 50
Part II - Practical Examination - Maximum Marks will be 50
01. Preparation of a lecture note for conducting a lecture under a topic provided by the Board of
Examiners in relation to the subject 25
02. Conducting a lecture before the Board of Examiners in relation to the matters indicated in the lecture note 25
Total Marks 50
MARKING SCHEME OF THE STRUCTURED INTERVIEW AND THE PRACTICAL EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITING TO CLASS 3 OF THE
SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCATORS' SERVICE
(For the subjects of Information Communication Technology)
Part 1 - Structured Interview - Maximum marks will be 50
01. Educational Qualifications Maximum 20 Marks
(For qualifications obtained in addition to the qualifications specified in the Schedule 1)
(Marks will be offered only for the Highest Certificate obtained)
1.1 Doctorate Degree 20
(In Education or in the relevant subject)
1.2 Post Graduate Degree 15
(In Education or in the relevant subject)
1.3 Post Graduate Diploma 10
02. Proficiency in English Language Maximum 10 Marks
(For qualifications obtained in addition to the qualifications specified in the Schedule 1)
(Marks will be offered only for the Highest Certificate obtained)
2.1 Having followed English as a subject for the Degree 10
2.2 Having studied the Degree in the English Medium 08
2.3 Having passed the G . C. E. (A. Level) Examination with English as a subject 06
2.4 Having followed the G . C. E. (Advanced Level) in English Medium 05
2.5 Having followed a Diploma Course in a university or in a recognized institution (One Year or more) 04
2.6 Having followed a certificate course in a recognized university 02

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2190
03. Academic Perfromance (In relation to the Field of Education) Maximum 15 Marks
3.1 Research and Tutorials
(Researches and Tutorials submitted for the Degree/Post Graduate Degree/Post Graduate
Diploma or for the Doctorate will not be applicable under this heading) 09
3.2 Publications (Published in popular magazines or newspapers 06
04. Merit shown at the Interview Maximum 05 Marks
Total Marks 50
Part II - Practical Examination - 50 Maximum Marks
01. Preparation of a lecture note for conducting a lecture under a topic provided by the Board of
Examiners in relation to the subject 25
02. Conducting a lecture before the Board of Examiners in relation to the matters indicated in the lecture note 25
Total Marks 50
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
Posts in the Sri Lanka Teacher Educators' Service
(The application should be prepared using both sides of a A4 size paper. If applied for more than one subject field,
separate applications should be forwarded)
01. Name with initials (Ven./Mr./Mrs./Miss) :–––––––––––––––.
02. Name in full :–––––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
03. Official Address :–––––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
04. Private Address :–––––––––––––––.
(In block letters)
05. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––––.
06. (i) Date of Birth : Year :–––––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––––.
(ii) Age as at 30.11.2015 : Years :–––––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––––––.
07. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––––.
08. Date of the first appointment and the designatoin :–––––––––––––––.
09. Details of the present designation (Should be completed only by persons currently serving in the National Colleges of Educat ion/
Teachers' Training College in the attachment basis or by persons serving in Teachers' Centres as Acting Managers :
(a) Designation :–––––––––––––––.
(b) Department :–––––––––––––––.
(c) Date of attachment to the Post :–––––––––––––––.
(d) Institution/Place of Work :–––––––––––––––.
10. Subject applied for
Subject Serial No. of the subject as indicated Serial No. of the subject through which Medium Institutions applied for as
in the Gazette Notification candidate qualifies according to the per the preference of the
Gazette Notification (i) (ii) (iii) (iv) Candidate
1.
2.
3.
11. Details pertaining to the Educational and Professional qualifications :
(i) Degree Qualification
Name of the Degree and the Institution by Y ear Class Subjects
which the Degree has been issued

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2191
(ii) Post Graduate Degree Qualifications :
Institution by which the Post Graduate Name of the Year Subjects Class  whether Distinction/
Degree has been offered Certificate From ................. Credit/General Pass
To ....................
(iii) Post Graduate Diploma in Education :
Name of the Certificate and the institution Year Name of the Diploma in Education Subject
by which the certificate has been issued Whether Distinction/Credit Pass
(iv) Other Professional Qualifications (Particulars regarding Certificates of Diploma and Certificates of Teacher Training) :
Name of the Certificate and the institution by Duration of the Course Particulars regarding Subjects
which the certificate has been issued
(v) Proficiency in the English Language :
Year Whether Distinction/Credit Pass Others Year Class
G . C. E. Ordinary Level
Highest Certificate Obtained Institution by which the Highest Grade
Certificate has been obtained
(vi) Particulars regarding the service (Mention the designations held earlier and the duration of holding such designations) :
Department Designation Whether permanent/temporary From To
12. 12.1 Have you ever been convicted for an offence in any Court of Law ? (If so, give details) :–––––––––––––––.
12.2 Whether Departmental disciplinary proceedings are being carried out against you ? Or else, whether there is a case pending at any
Court of Law ? (If so, give details) :–––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2192
12.3 I certify that all the particulars furnished in this application are true and correct according to my knoweldge. I am aware  that
I will be disqualified for the post if any particulars indicated here are found to be false or incorrect before the selection and I will
be subject to dismissal from the Post without any compensation if it is found that the particulars indicated here are false or
incorrect after being appointed to the Post.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
The application of .......................................... is submitted. I do hereby certify that he/she serves as a permane nt/temporary/
casual ................. in the Department and he/she can be released from the service if he/she is selected to the Post.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and the Official Frank of the
Head of the Department/Institution.
Date :–––––––––––––––.
Department :–––––––––––––––.
10-1172
––––––––––––––––––––
EXCISE  DEPARTMENT  OF  SRI  LANKA
Post of Driver - Grade II
APPLICATIONS are called from eligible Sri Lankans with following
qualifications for the Post of Driver, Grade II of the Excise Department
of Sri Lanka.
02. Applications as per the specimen set out below should be
sent to reach the Commissioner General of Excise, Excise Department
of Sri Lanka, No. 34, W. A. D. Ramanayake Mawatha, Colombo 02
under the Registered Post on or before 30.11.2015. Top left hand
corner of the envelope should be marked as "Post of Excise Driver".
Incomplete applications and the applications which are not received
after the prescribed date will be rejected. Receipt of applications will
not be acknowledged.
03. Monthly Salary Scale. – Grade II : Rs. 12,470 - 130x10 -
145x10 - 160 x10 - 170 x12 - Rs. 18,860 will be placed on the
monthly salary of Rs. 13,915. (There shall be the First Efficiency
Bar Examination before the salary step of Rs. 14,350 of the
aforementioned  salary scale (PL 3-2006A) is exceeded as per the
P. A.C. 6/2006(iv).
04. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than
45 years as at the deadline for applications as per the Gazette. (Age
limit does not apply to the applicants who are already employed in
Public/Provincial Service).
05. Educational and Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a Sri Lankan Citizen ;
(ii) Should have pass six (06) subjects including Mathematics
with credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil and at least for one
other subject at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination
in not more than 02 attempts ;
(iii) 03 years of service experience subsequent to obtaining
the valid Driving Licence (Should submit certificates as
proof) ;
(iv) Should have an excellent character, (Character of the
applicant will be verified through the National Information
Centre/Police Station/Excise Station of the area) ;
(v) He should have an eye sight fit the requirement of working
both day and night and should be physically fit to serve in
any part of the Island ;
(vi) Minimum height be 5'4" and the size of the chest when
exhaled should be 32" ;
(vii) Should possess an adequate knowledge on Highway Code
and Motor Mechanics. Should possess a valid Heavy
Vehicle Driving Licence for driving of Motor Buses and
Motor Coaches under Class "A" issued by the
Commissioner General of Motor Traffic.
06. Method of Recruitment.– Applicants who have fulfilled the
qualifications set out in the above 4, 5 shall be subjected to a structured
interview and the certificates/licences and the knowledge of Motor
Mechanics shall be checked. A practical driving test shall be held for
the qualified applicants. Applicants who pass the practical test shall
be selected for appointemnts of Excise Driver - Grade II as per the
number of existing vacancies subsequent to obtaining relevant Police
Reports and Excise Reports, Government policies and conditions of
recruitments shall be followed. A two week training on departmental
duties shall be given to the selected applicants.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2193
07. Conditions of the employment.– This post is permanent and
pensionable. The selected applicants shall contribute to the Widows'
and Orphans' Pension Fund. This is a post of the uniformed staff of
the Excise Department of Sri Lanka.
08. Photocopies of the following certificates (not originals) should
be attached with the application :
(i) Birth Certificate.
(ii) 02 Character Certificates obtained recently ; one should be
obtained from the Grama Niladhari/Divisional Secretary
of one's permanent resident area.
(iii) Certificates in proof of Educational Qualifications.
(iv) Valid driving licence issued by the Commissioner General
of Motor Traffic.
(v) Acceptable certificates in proof of special qualifications.
09. Applicants who are called for the interview shall be informed
in writing. Transport expenses ; etc. shall not be paid in this respect.
L. K. G . G
UNAW ARDENA,
Commissioner General of Excise.
October, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
POST OF DRIVER - GRADE II - EXCISE DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA
01. ( a) Full Name (in mother tongue) :–––––––––––––.
(b) Full Name (in English) (Use Block Letters) :––––––––––.
(c) Name with Initials :–––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––––.
03. Present Address :–––––––––––––.
(a) Permanent Address :–––––––––––––.
(b) Police Station :–––––––––––––.
04. Whether you are a Sri Lankan Citizen by descent or a registered
(If by registration, attach a copy of the said certificate) :–––––.
05. Civil Status :–––––––––––––.
06. Date of Birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
07. Age as at the deadline of applications as per the Gazette
Notification :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
(Attach a copy of the Birth Certificate)
08. Educational Qualifications (Attach copies of certificates
mentioning the examinations taken) :–––––––––––––.
09. (i) Give the details on experience as per the iii. para. 5 of the
Gazette Notification :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Authorized Officer who issued the certificate as per the
vii. para. 5 of the Gazette Notification (Attach a copy of
the certificate) :–––––––––––––.
10. Size of the Chest (without inhaling) :...........cm (Inches :.........)
11. Height : Feet :................... Inches :.................... (cm :..............)
12. Names, Post and Address of two Referees :
(i) ....................................
....................................
.....................................
(ii) ....................................
....................................
.....................................
13. Give details if you had been/are employed in Public/Provincial
Service ; give reasons if you have resigned from the said post :
–––––––––––––.
14. Current post and the place of work :–––––––––––––.
I, do hereby declare and certify that the foregoing details furnished
by me are true and correct to the best of my knoweldge and belief.
Similarly I am aware that I am subject to termination of service
without any compensation in the event that foregoing facts are found
to be falsified and inaccurate after the assumption of duties.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10-1201
–––––––––––––––––––
T - 4(KJ)
DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING
Calling Applications for Recruitment (Open) of the Post of
Welder in the Primary Level Skilled Service Category
(PL-3-2006A) of the Department of
Government Printing
APPLICATIONS are called from eligible applicants for recruitment
(open) of the post of Welder in the Primary Level Skilled Service
Category (PL-3-2006A) of the Department of Government Printing.
02. Salary Scale and Code entitled for the post .– Salary scale
entitled for the post will be monthly Rs. 12,470 -10x130 -10x145 -
10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,860 (PL-3-2006A).
03. Nature of the Post.– Permanent and  Pensionable.
04. Grade of Recruitment.– Grade III.
05. Duties related to the Post :
(i) Chipping of nails, bolts and iron bars, drilling, piling and
repairing parts of printing press.
(ii) Any other duty assigned by the Head of the Department.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2194
06. Qualifications :
6.1 Educational Qualifications :
6.1.1 Passing in six (06) subjects with minimum Two (02)
Credits in not more than two sittings at the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination.
6.2 Professional Qualifications :
6.2.1 Professional competency in minimum Level IV of
National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) obtained
from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and
V ocational Educational Commission in the field
relevant to the post.
6.3 Physical Qualifications :
6.3.1 Applicants should be physically and mentally fit to
perform the duties of the post.
6.4 Other Qualifications :
6.4.1 Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens
6.4.2 Should be of exemplary character
6.4.3 Should be between 18 to 45 years of age
6.4.4 Should have fulfilled all required qualifications in every
respect by the closing date of applications.
07. Method of Recruitment. – Applicant should face a general
interview to check qualifications as well as a professional test to
measure practical knowledge and skills related to the post. Minimum
40% marks should be obtained in order to pass the test no marks
will be awarded at the interview. Applicants will be recruited for
the posts vacant in the order of marks obtained at the professional
test.
08. Scope and structure of the practical test will be as follows :
8.1 Structure of Marks  :
Scope T otal Pass
Marks Marks
1. Basic knoweldge related to the field 25
2. Knowledge related to installation of
machinery, repairs, utilization and 25
identification of faults
40
3. Competence/skill displayed at
performing a given task such as
creation/construction/installation/repair 50
using relevant tools within prescribed
time
Total 100
8.2 Scope :
(i) Ability to read 1/32 scales.
(ii) Knowl edge of the names of tools used in the
profession, their usage and care.
(iii) Knowledge of P/T.
(iv) Ability in chipping and filing.
09. Confirmation in the post.– An officer appointed to Grade III
of Class III will be subject to a probation period of three (03) years.
He/She shall be confirmed in service at the end of the period of
probation upon passing the First Efficiency Bar Examination,
obtaining of language proficiency in terms of provisions of the
Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007, diligently fulfilling duties
of the post and maintenance of good conduct and efficient service.
10. Mode of Application :
10.1 Closi ng date of applications will be 30.11.2015.
10.2 Duly filled applications prepared according to the
specimen given along with “Application for
Recruitments (Open) for the Post of Welder” indicated
on top left hand corner of the envelope, should be sent
under registered cover to reach the “Government Printer,
Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08” on
or before 30.11.2015.
11. Any matter not mentioned here would depend on the Scheme
of Recruitment for the Primary Level Skilled Service Category
(PL-3-2006A) of the Department of Government Printing.
12. All officers recruited under this Service Minute should abide
by the provisions of the Establishments Code and the Financial
Regulations of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Rules, Regulations and Procedural Rules imposed by the Public
Service Commission, Departmental Rules and any other Provision
or Rule imposed by the Government from time to time.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this notice, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
W. A. A. G. F
ONSEKA,
Government Printer (Actg.).
26th October, 2015.
APPLICA TION FOR EXTERNAL RECRUITMENTS TO
THE POST OF WELDER PRIMARY SKILLED SERVICE
CATEGORY (PL-3-2006A) OF THE DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING
01. Name in full : .............................................................................
02. Name with initials :
* In Sinhala : ...........................................................................
* In English : ...........................................................................

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2195
03. Address : ................................................................................
04. Date of Birth : ........................................................................
05. Age as at  : 30.11.2015 :
Years :.................... Months :................   Days :...................
06. Gender : ..................................................................................
07. Marital Status : .......................................................................
08. National Identity Card No. : ..................................................
09. Telephone No. : ......................................................................
10. Whether a Sri Lankan citizen : ...............................................
11. Educational Qualifications :
* G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Index No. : ... .................     Year :.........................
(i) ................................... (vi) ...................................
(ii) ................................... (vii) ...................................
(iii) ................................... (viii) ...................................
(iv) ................................... (ix) ...................................
(v) ................................... (x) ...................................
* Other Educational Qualifications (If any) :
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
12. Service experience in a recognized institution (if any) : ........
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
................................................................................................
13. Professional Qualifications :
(i) Have you obtained National Vocational Qualification
relating to Welding ? : .....................................................
........................................................................................
(ii) N. V. Q. Level obtained : ................................................
........................................................................................
(iii) Other Professional Qualifications : ...............................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
........................................................................................
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished above are true and
accurate. Furthermore, I agree that I will not be eligible for the post
and will be dismissed from service if any of the above particulars
were proven false.
....................................
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :.............................
14. Only the applicants, who are currently engaged in Public Service,
should fill the following :—
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished in 1 - 13 above are
accurate and this officer is eligible to face the interview. Furthermore,
if this officer is selected for the post, He/She shall be/shall not be
released from his/her current post.
...........................................
Designation and the Signature of the
Head of the Department.
Date :...............................
15. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
* Signature of the applicant should attested by a Principal/
Retired Principal of a Government School, Grama Niladhari
Officer, Justice of Peace, Commissioned Officer of the
Tri-force, Officer in a Government of Local Government
Service or permanent Staff Grade with an annual consolidated
salary of Rs. 240,360 or above or Chief incumbent of a
Buddhist religious institution or a prelate of any other
religious institution with similar reverence.
I personally know the aforesigned Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................
and he/she has placed the signature before me.
.................................
Signature and official stamp.
Date :.................................................
Name :...............................................
Designation :.......................................
Address :...........................................
10–1202

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2196
THIRD  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION   FOR  THE
OFFICERS  IN  GRADE  I  OF  SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE - 2015
(Three Month Certificate Course on Management)
IT is hereby notified that the aforesaid course shall be commenced
on March 2016 by the Faculty of Management Studies and Commerce
University of Sri Jayawardhanapura as per the Minute of Sri Lanka
Technological Service published by the Gazette Extra Ordinary of
the Government No. 1930/12 dated 01.09.2015.
02. (i) This course shall be conducted only in English medium at
the Faculty of Management Studies and Commerce of
University of Sri Jayawardhanapura and the applicants
shall be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by
the Dean of the Faculty with regard to selection of officers
for the course, conducting the course, conducting the
examinations and issuing the results, issuing certificates
and granting concessionary periods. They shall be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the University
of Sri Jayawardhanapura and provisions of the
Establishments Code for violation of the rules and
regulations imposed by the University.
(ii) You shall be informed with regard to the rules and
regulations imposed by the University of Sri
Jayawardhanapura and the course by the University at
the beginning of the course.
03. The specimen application for this course is published at the
end of this notification. Applicants should prepare their own
applications according to the specimen. In case where the officer
belongs to the Sri Lanka Technological Service under the Central
Government, application of such officer shall be sent through the
Head of the Department and in the meantime the officers in Sri
Lanka Technological Service under the Provincial Public Service shall
send their applications through the Secretary of the Provincial Public
Service Commission in the Provincial Council where they serve. The
applications should be sent through registered post to Dean, Faculty
of Management studies and Commerce, University of Sri
Jayawardhanapura, Gangodawila, Nugegoda before 30th of November
2015. “Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade I of Sri
Lanka Technological Service - 2015 (Three month certificate course
on Management)” shall be indicated in top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is forwarded. The Dean is
empowered to reject the applications received after the closing date
of applications without any inquiry.
04. Identity.– Candidates shall be required to prove their identity
to the satisfaction of the Dean of the Faculty of Management Studies
and Commerce of University of Sri Jayawardhanapura. For this
purpose, one of the following documents shall be kept at the
possession of the applicants at the beginning and also during the
course in order to submit on requirement.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(b) Identity card issued by the respective institution ; or
A document issued by the respective institution to prove
the identity.
05. Application :
(i) Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size.
The application could be typewritten, but it should be
filled in correctly and legibly in candidate’s own
handwriting. At the occasions where it is specially
mentioned, the applications shall be filled in the language
medium specially mentioned. Special attention should
be paid to the name of the officer, since the name is used
as it is indicated in the application at all occasions within
the course duration. If the said particulars are changed
within the course duration, it should be informed to the
Dean, Faculty of Management Studies and Commerce of
University of Sri Jayawardhanapura in writing along with
the recommendations of the Head of the Department.
(ii) Please indicate the title of the examination appearing in
the specimen in English langauge as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil appliction forms. Applications that do not
comply with the specimen and that have not been
perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It is
the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application form perfected by him/her complies with the
specimen given in the notification and further it would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
(iii) A stamp size photograph of the applicant shall be pasted
in the cage on the top right hand corner of the original
application and another stamp size photograph shall be
attached to the application.
06. Course fee and examination fees :
(i) The officers appearing for this course shall pay either by
a cheque issued by the employer or by a bank draft of
amount of Rs. 17,500 to the current account of the
Faculty Development Fund of the faculty of Management
Studies and Commerce of University of Sri
Jayawardhanapura No. of 097100140002229 at People’s
Bank, Gangodawila Branch. The receipt obtained by the
candidate depositing the relevant amount shall be
submitted to the Dean of Faculty of Management Studies
and Commerce of University of Sri Jayawardhanapura
one week before the commencing date of the course.
Institutional charges, printing fees, examination fees,
allowances for resource providers and charges for
coordination are included in the above amount.
(ii) If the officers who are unable to complete the examination
of the course at the first occasion wish to sit for the
examination at the consequent sittings, they are required
to pay a registration fees of Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 2,000 per
each subject. When making these payments, the
instructions of the Dean of the Faculty of Management
Studies and Commerce of University of Sri
Jayawardhanapura shall be followed.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2197
(iii) Under no circumstances, the course fee shall be refunded.
The examination fee shall not be allowed to transfer in
respect of any other examination or course or officer.
07. Requirement to follow the course :
(i) All the officers shall pass the third Efficiency Bar
Examination for officers in Grade I of Sri Lanka
Technological Service before the lapse of five (05) years
from the date of promotion to Grade I.
(ii) The officers who have completed five (05) years from
the date of promotion to Grade I of Sri Lanka
Technological Service as at 01.06.2013 shall be exempted
from the requirement of passing the third Efficiency Bar
Examination.
Note.– Kindly note to pay the attention of the Head of the
Department regarding the seniority of each officer and
the matters indicated in Para. 7 i and 7 ii above.
08. Selection for the course.– When officers are selected for the
course, priority shall be given depending on the order of the seniority
of the appointment of the officers who were promoted to Grade I of
Sri Lanka Technological Service.
09. All the officers who have submitted applications shall be
included in the data base maintained by the Dean of the Faculty of
Management Studies and Commerce of University of Sri
Jayawardhanapura and 800 persons shall be selected annually for
the course. (Two groups at a time which consist of 200 each). A list
of names of the applicants who are selected for the course shall be
sent to the Ministry of Public Administration and Management.
Subsequently, the Departments of the relevant applicants shall be
informed by the Ministry through letters. Applications shall be
called again for the course by a Gazette Notification only at the
instances where sufficient number of applications has not been
submitted.
10. Syllabus of the course :
Serial Syllabus Number of Credit
No. Credits Hours
01 Public Finance Management 02 30
02 Human Recourse Management 02 30
(Basic theories)
03. Conflict Management (Practical 02 30
application of the theories on
Conflict Management in achieving
the goals and objectives of the
organization)
04 Organization at Behavior 02 30
05 Project Report 02 30
A research paper either on an issue
in the professional field of candidate
or the professional field itself
10 150
11. The decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Public
Administration and Management shall be the final with regard to any
matter not referred to herein.
J. D
ADALLAGE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Management.
Ministry of Public Administration and Management,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
14th of October, 2015.
(The Gazette Notification and the specimen application can be
downloaded at www.pubad.gov.lk)
Specimen Application
Affix a stamp size
photograph here
(Official use only)
THIRD  EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINA TION   FOR THE
OFFICERS  IN  GRADE I  OF  SRI  LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL  SERVICE - 2015
(THREE MONTH CERTIFICA TE COURSE ON
MANAGEMENT)
01. ( a) Name with initials (Indicate the initials at the end of the
name) :––––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA
M. G . B. S. K.)
(b) Name in Full :––––––––––––––.
(In English block capital letters)
(c) Name in full :––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02.Indicate whether you belong to Provincial Public Service, if not
to which public service you belong :
(Public Service - 10/Western Provincial Public Service - 01/Central
Provincial Public Service - 02/Southern Provincial Public Service
- 03/Northern Provincial Public Service - 04/Eastern Provincial
Public Service - 05/North Western Provincial Public Service - 06/
North Central Provincial Public Service - 07/Uva Provincial Public
Service - 08/Sabaragamuwa Provincial Public Service - 09)
03.Designation :––––––––––––––.
04.Sub department/Division to which you belong :–––––––––––––.
05.Department to which you belong :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2198
06.Official Address :
(In English block capital letters) :––––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––––.
07.Personal Address :––––––––––––––.
08.E-mail :––––––––––––––.
09.Telephone Number :
Official :
Personal :
10.Gender :
Male - M
Female - F
(Indicate the relevant letter in the cage)
11.National Identity Card No. :
(Affix a copy of the National Identity Card signed by the candidate
to the effect that it is a true copy)
12. (i) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(ii) Date of promotion to Grade I :
Years : Months : Days :
(iii) Active service period in Grade I as at the date of calling
applications :
Years : Months : Days :
(Submit the copy of the letter of promotion to Grade I signed by
the candidate to the effect that it is a true copy as an attachement)
(iv) Service period in Grade I as at 01.06.2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
I declare that the foregoing particulars are correct and I am bound
by the rules and regulations imposed by the Dean of the Faculty of
Management Studies and Commerce, University of Sri
Jayawardhanapura with regard to conducting the course, examination
and issuing results and the rules and regulations specified in the
Establishments Code.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Attestation of the Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................... who
is an officer working at my office and is known to me personally
placed his/her signature before me on ......................  .
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester and official stamp.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that the particulars mentioned in paragraphs 01
to 12 are accurate and the candidate is an officer in Sri Lanka
Technological Service who is eligible to follow this course as per the
note in paragraph 07 and it is possible for the Department to pay the
prescribed course fee.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department and
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––––––.
Check List :
(a) A copy of the National Identity Card signed by
the candidate to the effect that it is a true copy is
attached.
(b) A stamp size photograph is affixed on the top
right hand corner of the application.
(c) A stamp size photograph is attached with the
application.
(d) A copy of the letter of promotion to grade I
signed  by the candidate to the effect that it is
a true copy is attached.
10-1101
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE
Department of Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE POSTS OF SRI
LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE - 2015
APPLICATIONS are called from citizens of Sri Lanka who have
fulfilled the following qualifications for Open/Limited Competitive
Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of the posts of Agricultural
Instructor/Research Assistant of the Sri Lanka Technological Service
in the Department of Agriculture. The closing date of applications is
20th November, 2015.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2199
02.1.1. Recruitment on Open Basis.– The age of applicants should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as at 20th
of November 2015, the closing date of applications. Accordingly, an applicant qualifies to sit the examination in terms of the age only if his/
her Date of Birth falls on or before 20.11.1997 and on or after 20.11.1985. The maximum age limit will not be applicable to those who are
already in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service.
02.1.2. The candidates are required to fulfill the following Basic Educational Qualifications and Professional Qualifications :
Code No. Post 02.1.3 Educational Qualifications 02.1.4 Professional Qualifications
relevant to G . C. E. (O/L) G . C. E. (A/L)
the post Examination Examination
01 Agricultural
Instructor
02 Research
Assistant
02.1.5 Other Qualifications :
All applicants should certify that they have fulfilled the following qualifications :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
* Should be an excellent moral character,
* A clergy in any religious sect is not eligible to apply for this examination,
* Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island.
02.2.1 Recruitment on Limited Basis :
Code No. Post 02.2.2 Educational 02.2.3 Professional Experience
relevant to Qualifications G . C. E. (O/L) Qualifications
the post Examination
A pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in 06 (six)
subjects with Credit passes
in Language or Literature,
Mathematics, Science and
any other subject at not
more than two sittings.
(i) Two year Agriculture Diploma
awarded by an institution approved
by the Tertiary and  V ocational
Education Commission ;
or
(ii) Completion of National Vocational
Qualifications (NVQ) Level 6 in
relevance to the field of the job ;
or
(iii) Qualifications accepted by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission subsequent to
consulting the Ministry of Higher
Education and Institutions that
award above technical certifications
as equivalent to the above
qualifications in every respect.
01 Agricultural
Instructor
02 Research
Assistant
Five years (05) experience with
professional qualifications in a
primary unskilled departmental
post (PL-1) in the relevant field
or in a post higher than that.
A pass in G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination in 06 (six)
subjects with Credit passes
in Sinhala/Tamil/English
Language, Mathematics,
Science and any other
subject at one sitting
A pass in G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in 03 (three)
Science subjects with two
Science subjects out of
Agriculture, Biology,
Chemistry, Physics,
Zoology at one sitting.
(Except General English
and General Test)
(i) Two year Agriculture Diploma awarded
by an institution approved by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission ;
or
(ii) Completion of National V ocational
Qualifications (NVQ) Level 6 in relevance
to the field of the job ;
or
(iii) Qualifications accepted by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission
subsequent to consulting the Ministry of
Higher Education and Institutions that
award above technical certifications as
equivalent to the above qualifications in
every respect.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2200
02.2.4  Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be confirmed in the post.
(ii) Should complete satisfactory service during the period of 05 years immediately proceding to the due date.
03. Fulfilment of the qualifications required to appear in this written examination for recruitment to the Sri Lanka Technological
Service will be recognized only if the officer has completed the all qualifications in every respect on or before the closing date of applications.
04. By vacancies existing in the Department 70% will be filled from open stream and 30% will be filled from limited stream. In
case, there is no sufficient number of internal applicants who have satisfied the basic qualifications in the Department of Agriculture to be
filled the percentage allocated to recruit from limited competition examination, remaining vacancies will be filled from external applicants
who will be selected by the Open Competitive Examination. Further, the Appointing Authority has reserved the authority to fill some of or
all vacancies or to unfill all vacancies.
Salary and Efficiency Bar Examinations :
Salary Code – MN 03/2006A
Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 -11 x320 - 20x 360 - Rs. 27,885/-.
The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of appointment to the Grade III
and the Second Efficiency Bar Examination should be completed within three (3) years from the date of promotion to Grade II. An officer
who has joined the Public Service in a Language other than the Official Languages should acquire the proficiency in official language as
prescribed within the period of Probation. For the fulfillment of the proficiency in other language prescribed for the post, th e test of
secondary merit level language course conducted by the Commissioner of Official Languages should be passed as per sub-para. : 1(b) of the
P. A. Circular 07/2007, within five (5) years from the date of appointment. Failure to obtain the proficiency in Official Languages and pass
the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the periods as prescribed will be a cause for the deferment of salary increments.
05. Terms of Engagement :
(i) These posts are permanent and pensionable. Contributions will have to be made to the Widows'/Widowers' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(ii) You should serve in any part of the Island in which you are called upon to serve and priority will be given to fill the vacancies
in institutions in the Districts of Anuradhapura, Polonnaruwa, Ampara, Kandy (Hasalaka), Moneragala, Hambantota and
North-east Province.
(iii) You will be subject to the conditions of the Minutes on Sri Lanka Technological Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,426/34 of 06.01.2006 effective at present and any other amendments
hereinafter made thereto and to the recruitment procedures.
06. Method of Application :
(a) The specimen of the application for this examination is appended at the end of this notification. The application should
accordingly be prepared only on A4 size (21cm x 29cm) paper using both sides of the paper, so as Heads 01 to 04 in the
first page, 05 to 07 in the second page and the rest in the page 3 of the application. The relevant particulars should be filled
by applicant in his/her own hand writing. The name of the examination appears in the heading of the application prepared
either in Sinhala or Tamil Language is required to be printed in English language as well. Applications which are not in
accordance with the specimen and incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. It would be an advantage to
keep a photocopy of the application with you. Further, applicant should check whether the application prepared by him/
her is in order of the specimen appended to this notification. Unless the application may be rejected.
(b) Hence, both open/limited examinations will be held as one examination, an applicant can’t apply for both open and limited
categories of examinations. Accordingly, an applicant can apply only for one category out of open and limited categories.
(c) In case of applying for both posts given in this notification, only one application should be forwarded.
(d) The Application should be completed only in the language in which the applicant intends to sit for the examination.
(e) Duly completed applications should be sent by registered post to Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, P. O. Box 1503, Palawatte, Battaramulla on or before
20th of November, 2015.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2201
(f) The words “Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Posts of Sri Lanka Technological Service in the
Department of Agriculture - 2015” should clearly be marked on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.
(g) An applicant can apply for one post or all posts and the examination fee is Rs. 750. The receipt (original) obtained on the
payment of the above examination fee to any Post Office/Sub Post Office in the Island with the instructions to credit the
payment to the Revenue Head 2003.02.13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations should be affixed in the space
provided in the application. Keeping a copy of the receipt with you would be an advantage in the future. The examination
fee will not be refunded in any circumstance and money orders and stamps will not be accepted.
(h) Applications which are not complete in every respect or delayed will be rejected without notice and no complaint that an
application has been lost or delayed in the post will be considered.
(i) The signature of the applicant in the application for the examination and admission card should have to be got attested. An
applicant apply for the examination through an institution should get attested his signature by his Head of Institution or
an Officer who is authorized by him and other applicants should get attested their signatures by a Principal of a
Government School, Grama Niladhari in the Division, a Justice of Peace, a Commissioner for Oaths, a Notary Public, a
Commissioned Officer in three Forces, a Staff Grade Officer in the Public or Provincial Public Service, who has drawn an
annual salary of Rs. 240,360 or above.
(j) Those who are already in the Public or Provincial Public Service should forward applications through heads of their
respective institutions.
07. Scheme of Examination :
(a) On pre - determination that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications prescribed in the Gazette Notification
have applied for the examination, the Commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to applicants who
are within the age limits specified in the notification, and who have forwarded duly completed applications with the
language in which she/he intends to sit for the examination, city and the posts applied for, signature of the applicant and
attestation of the signature, if applicable certificate of the Head of Institutions and the receipt obtained on payment of the
examination fee on or before the closing date of applications. A candidate must produce his/her attested admission card to
the supervisor of the examination hall. A candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be permitted to sit
for the examination. Issue of an admission card to an applicant does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite
qualification to sit for the examination.
(b) Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka will published a notice in newspapers immediately after issuing admission cards
to the applicants. Any applicant who has not received his/her admission card 02 or 03 days after publishing the notice in
newspapers, should notify to the Department of Examinations as stated in this notification. It is informed to notify to the
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations stating the name of the examination, your name, address and N. I. C. number
keeping in hand the copies of the application form, receipt of payment of examination fee and in case of an applicant out
side Colombo it would be more advantageous to notify to the Sri Lanka Department of Examinations faxing a request with
a fax number to which the copy of the admission card with above information to be sent.
(c) Travelling expenses or any other allowance will not be paid to candidates in respect of appearing in this examination.
(d) Identification of the candidates .– A candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the
satisfaction of the Supervisor of each subject he offers. For this purpose following documents will be accepted :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid passport.
(e) Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test – (Time - one hour, total marks - 100)
This paper consists of 50 multiple choices and short answers type questions so as to make an assessment of the
candidate’s power of logical reasoning, analysis and ability to draw sound inferences. All questions should be answered.
(ii) Subject matter question paper (Time 02 hours. Total marks - 100)
This paper consists of structured type questions to examine the candidate’s subject knowledge :

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2202
Post S yllabus of subject matter Question Paper
01. Agricultural Instructor Contribution of Agriculture to the Economic Development of Sri Lanka/Knowledge in climatic
zones of Sri Lanka/Soil and Plant Nutrition/Rice Production, Production of other field crops,
Vegetable Production, Fruit Production/Crop Protection/Importance of soil conservation and
02. Research Assistant various soil conservation methods/Irrigation and water management/Farm mechanization/
Apiculture/Floriculture and landscaping/protected crop cultivation/ Animal husbandry/Agricultural
extension/knowledge in plant quarantine/plant conservation and its importance/Bio technology/
seed production/tissue culture and agriculture development.
(f) Medium of examination.–This examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages. A candidate must
answer all the papers of the examination in one and the same language. The language of the examination given in the
application will not be allowed to change later.
(g) The Commissioner General of Examinations will allow to sit for this competitive examination to all applicants who have
paid the examination fee and forwarded applications to reach on or before the date specified in this notification on
predetermination that the applications have only been sent by those who have fulfilled the requirements prescribed in this
Gazette Notification. Issuance of admission card does not necessarily mean that he/she has the requisite qualifications to
sit for the examination. If apply for two posts given in the (f) above, only one application should be forwarded including
all posts applied for. All candidates are subject to the rules imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations in
connection with this examination. A candidate who violates any of these rules is liable to a punishment at the discretion of
the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(h) Place and Date of Examination.– This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations at
Colombo and Kandy on January 2016. In case of receiving insufficient number of applications, the examination will only
be held in Colombo. (The examination center given in the application will not be allowed to change later.)
Examination center Code No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
08. Method of Recruitment :
(i) Recruitments will be considered on the merit list prepared according to aggregate of marks of the applicants selected from
those who have secured 40% or more marks in each question paper.
(ii) The qualifications of the applicants will be scrutinized by a Board of Interview appointed by the Director General of
Agriculture based on the merit of marks of the examination. Subsequently those who have fulfilled the requirements will
be selected for the posts. (Marks will not be added at the interview).
(iii) The number of applicants to be called for the interview will be decided by the Director General of Agriculture.
(iv) If it is revealed at the interview that a candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications as at the closing date of application for
the post, his/her candidature will be cancelled.
(v) If a candidate will pass the examination appearing in it without completing the qualifications prescribed in this Gazette
Notification as at the closing date of applications he/she will not be called for the interview and his/her application will be
rejected without any notice.
(vi) If a candidate will receive an appointment by furnishing false information and counterfeit documents immediately after
revealing such misconduct his/her appointment will be cancelled and legal actions will be taken against him/her.
(vii) Issuance of results - A list of candidates who have secured 40% or more marks in each subject will be provided to the Board
of Interview as notified by the Director General of Agriculture.
09. Any matter not provided for in this notification will be decided by the “Appointing Authority”. All candidates are bound to
act in conformity with the General Rules of Examinations stipulated in this Gazette.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2203
10. In the event of any inconsistency among notifications published in all three languages of this examination notification “The
Sinhala” notification shall prevail.
Dr. R. R. A. WIJEKOON,
Director General of Agriculture.
At the Department of Agriculture,
Peradeniya,
07th October, 2015.
(For office use only)
S
PECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICATION FOR OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENTS TO GRADE III OF THE POSTS OF THE SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL
SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE - 2015
Medium of Examination : Sinhala - 02
Tamil - 03
English - 04 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Examination Centre
Colombo - 01
Kandy - 02 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Post/posts applied for (Indicate in the order of priority)
* Agricultural Instructor - 01 Post/posts applied for Post Number
* Research Assistant - 02 1.
2.
01. Name :
1.1 Full Name :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Eg. HERATH  MUDIYANSELAGE  SAMAN  KUMARA  GUNAWARDHANA
1.2 Name indicating the last name first and initials at the end :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) (Eg. GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.)
1.3 Full name :–––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 National Identity Card Number :
1.5 Telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :
2.1 In English capital letters :–––––––––––––.
2.2 In Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––––.
2.3 Address to which the admission should be sent :–––––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.4 District of Permanent Residence :–––––––––––––.
2.5 Divisional Secretariat Division :–––––––––––––.
03. Gender : Female 1
Male 0                 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
04. 4.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2204
4.2 Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years : Months : Days :
4.3 Marital status : Unmarried - 1
Married - 2                 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
05. Educational qualifications (with the medium) :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) :
(i) Year and Month :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Medium :––––––––––––.
(iv) Results :
First  sitting
Subjects Pass
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) :
(i) Year and Month :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Medium :––––––––––––.
(iv) Results :
Subject Pass
06. Professional qualifications :
Name of the Diploma Name of the Institution Year passed Index No. Date of validity
awarded the Diploma
07. The Post/Sub Post Office to which the examination fee was paid :
07.1 Date of payment :–––––––––––––.
07.2 No. of the receipt :–––––––––––––.
07.3 Amount :–––––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt obtained on payment of examination fee, so as to be unglued.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'10'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.10.2015
2205
08. I agree to abide by the conditions of this examination.
09. Declaration of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that, if an y
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified before selection or to dismissa l without any
compensation if such detection is made after appointment. Further, I hereby declare that I am subject to the rules imposed in respect of this
examination and decisions taken in respect of releasing the results by the Commissioner General of Examinations. I also certify that only one
application is submitted for the posts applied by me.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
10. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss .................................. who submits this application is known to me personally
and that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on .............................. and he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed
the receipt.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of Attester :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
(Please prove by the official seal)
11. Those who are already in the Public/Provincial Public Service (strike - off the words inapplicable) :
I hereby certify that the above applicant has/has not fulfilled the all requisite qualifications to appear in this examination as per this
Gazette Notification and he/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the receipt is affixed and he/she can/can’t be released from his/
her present post in this Department if he/she is selected.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature and Designation of Head of the Department.
(Official seal)
Date :–––––––––––––.
10–958
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.