

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2343
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2330 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"410 – 2024 fkdjeïn¾ ui 08 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'11'08
No. 2,410 –  FRiday, NoVEmbER, 08, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 29th November, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 14th November, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2327 - b 082625 - 5,403 (11/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2328
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala medium or in tamil medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2329
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2330
Post - v acant
SRI  LANkA   ARmy
Calling of Applications for Specialist Doctor's 
v acancies in the Regular force of the Sri Lanka 
Army
1. aPPLicatioNS  are invited for Specialist doctor’s 
Vacancies in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka army. 
2. Selected applicants will undergo a 14-day short-term 
army basic t raining course, after which they will be 
appointed to the authority of the rank at which they are 
enlisted and inducted into the regiments/corps in the 
Regular Force of the Sri Lanka army. the available 
vacancies in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka army 
are as follows:
3. Specialist medical Professions:
a. Consultant Anesthetic:
(1) directly enlisted in the rank of Lieutenant 
colonel.
(2) male/ Female (both can apply). 
(3) Preference will be given to those below 45 years 
of age by 08 November 2024.
(4) md (anesthesiology)’ should be a consultant 
Anesthetist, board certified by the Postgraduate 
institute of medicine, University of colombo.    
(5) Should have a minimum of 10 years service in 
the medical profession.
b. Consultant General Surgeon:
(1) directly enlisted in the rank of Lieutenant 
colonel.
(2) male/ Female (both can apply). 
(3) Preference will be given to those below 45 years 
of age by 08 November 2024.
(4) ‘md Surgery’ should be a consultant General 
Surgeon, board certified by the Postgraduate 
institute of medicine, University of colombo.    
(5) Should have at least 10 years of service in the 
medical profession.
c. Consultant Obstetrician & Gynecologist:
(1) directly enlisted in the rank of Lieutenant 
colonel.
(2) male/ Female (both can apply). 
(3) Preference will be given to those below 45 years 
of age by 08 November 2024.
(4) md (Gyn & obs) should be a consultant 
Obstetrician & Gynecologist, board certified 
from Postgraduate institute of medicine, 
University of colombo.        
(5) Should have at least 10 years of service in the 
medical profession.
d. Consultant Psychiatrist:
(1) directly enlisted in the rank of Lieutenant 
colonel.
(2) male/ Female (both can apply). 
(3) Preference will be given to those below 45 years 
of age by 08 November 2024.
(4) md Psychiatry should be a consultant 
Psychiatrist, board certified from Postgraduate 
institute of medicine, University of colombo.
(5) Should have at least 10 years of service in the 
medical profession.
e. Consultant in Restorative Dentistry:
(1) directly enlisted in the rank of Lieutenant 
colonel.
(2) male/ Female (both can apply).  
(3) Preference will be given to those below 45 years 
of age by 08 November 2024.
(4) Should be a specialist in the relevant dental 
specialty with a post-graduate md degree 
obtained from the Post Graduate institute of 
medicine (PGim) Sri Lanka. 
(5)  Should be board-certified as a consultant in the 
relevant dental field.
(6)  Should have at least 10 years of service in the 
dental profession.
f. Consultant Orthodontist :
     
(1) directly enlisted in the rank of Lieutenant 
colonel.
(2) male/ Female (both can apply). 
(3) Preference will be given to those below 45 years 
of age by 08 November 2024.
(4) Should be a specialist in the relevant dental 
speciality with a post-graduate md degree 
obtained from the Post Graduate institute of 
medicine (PGim) Sri Lanka. 
(5)  Should be board-certified as a consultant in the 
relevant dental field.
(6)  Should have a minimum of 10 years of service 
in the dental profession.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2331
4. Basic Qualifications:
a. citizenship : Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
b. Age : As specified under the occupation section. 
c. Height : Male - Should not be less than 5ʹ6ʺ.
   Female - Should not be less than 5ʹ3ʺ.
d. Weight : male - Should not be less than 55 kg 
   Female - Should not be less than 45 kg
e. Chest : Male - Should not be less than 32ʺ
f. body mass index : between 18.5 Kg/m 2 - 25 kg/m 2.
g. medical condition : candidates must pass the medical test conducted by the army Hospital (damS).
5. Conditions of Service:
a. candidates are required to undergo a short-term military training at the Sri Lanka military academy after being 
enlisted in the Sri Lanka army.
b. Enlisted officers shall be subject to posting for duty/training in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad as may be decided by 
the commander of the army.
c. The status of cadets during the training period will be that of other ranks and they will be subject to military law and 
civil law.
d. applications of candidates working in public service and private sector should be submitted by the Head of the 
Institution (Departments, Corporations, and Civil Institutions) with a certificate that the candidate can be exempted 
from full-time military service.
e.  The officers to be enlisted as professional officers will be determined as per the qualification and procedure for 
recruitment of financial officers mentioned in the instructions of Army Order (12/2019).
f.  The bond signed by specialist medical officers in the Ministry of Health will be handed over to the Sri Lanka Army. 
the initial service period is 05 years and if the service is to be extended further it should be done year by year.
6. Pay and Allowances. Commissioning as officers in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka army will be placed on the 
following salary scale, applicable to the officers of the Sri Lanka Army:
Ser Rank
Management Service Circular 3/2016
Consolidated Pay 
Year 2020
Salary Increments From 
01.01.2020
Maximum 
Consolidated 
Pay
Other
1 2/Lieutenant Rs:  38,605.00 - -
includes allowances approved by 
the Sri Lanka medical council
2 Lieutenant Rs:  47,615.00 30 x 1,335 (per annum) Rs:  87,665.00
3 captain Rs:  55,625.00 24 x 1,335 (per annum) Rs:  87,665.00
4 Major Rs:  60,965.00 22 x 1,335 (per annum) Rs:  90,335.00
5 Lieutenant colonel Rs:  62,595.00 22 x 1,630 (per annum) Rs:  98,455.00
6 colonel Rs: 76,175.00 17 x 2,170 (per annum) Rs: 113,065.00
7 brigadier Rs:  80,515.00 15 x 2,170 (per annum) Rs: 113,065.00
8 Maj General Rs:  88,000.00 12 x 2,700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
9 Lieutenant  General Rs:  93,400.00 10 x 2,700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
10 General Rs: 101,500.00 7 x 2,700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2332
7. Other Allowances. the following allowances are 
payable monthly:
 
a. Qualification pay.
b. Free feeding or ration allowance.
c. disturbance allowances when ordered to live in 
(For married officers only).
d. Uniform upkeep allowances.
8. the following facilities are available/allowances are 
payable:
a. Free accommodation when ordered to live in.
b. When living in rented quarters a rent ceiling.
c. Free uniforms.
d. Batmen allowance to married officers or batmen 
service to unmarried officers.
e. one return duty warrants a month from the 
place of work to the home station to those who 
are ordered to “live in”.
9. Officers will be governed by the following regulations 
concerning their pay, prospects, and conditions of 
service:
a. the army Pay code. 
b. Regulations for officers, (Regular Force) 1992, 
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
No. 780/7 dated 17th august, 1993 and as 
amended from time to time.
c. the army Pensions and Gratuities code, 
1981, published in the Gazette Extraordinary 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka No. 562/11 dated 15th June, 1989 and 
as amended from time to time.
10. Parents or guardians will be required to sign a declaration 
as shown in paragraph 11 below, which should be 
forwarded with the application. Parents or guardians 
of selected candidates will be required to enter into 
a bond substantially in the form of declaration, with 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before 
the appointment of these candidates.  Except in special 
cases, a cadet officer whose father is not alive his 
guardianship is vested in his mother or the guardian.
11. declaration to be signed by the parents or guardians of 
the applicant:
a. i am the parent/guardian of ………………………  
who is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka 
army.
b. i hereby undertake to be responsible, in the event of 
the above-named applicant being selected to attend a 
course of training in Sri Lanka or in overseas for the 
following:
(1) all private expenses which the applicant 
may incur during the period of his  
training.
(2) t o refund to the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka all the expenses 
incurred on his account by the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in the event 
of the above-named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his candidature for a commission 
during the period of his training.
(3) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all 
the expenses incurred on his account by the 
Republic of Sri Lanka if, at any time during 
his period of training, the above-named 
applicant is reported by the authorities to 
be unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or 
causes within his control) for the issue of a 
commission.
* Strike out inappropriate words.
date …………… ……………………
      Signature of Parent/Guardian
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) 
……………………………………………………………..
……………………………………………………………..
date …………… ……………………
      Signature of Witness
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) 
……………………………………………………………..
……………………………………………………………..
12. Language Requirements. Selected candidates will be 
required to comply with any rules already made or that 
may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language 
policy of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
and in particular for implementing the provisions of the 
Official Language Act, No 33 of 1956.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2333
13. Proof of Identity. candidates will be required 
to produce proof of their identity. identity  
cards issued by the department of Registration of 
Persons or Postmaster General and driving licenses 
issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic will be 
accepted for this purpose.
14. Applications. applications should be submitted in 
the applicant’s handwriting in terms of the forms 
specified below and should be forwarded to the 
Director of Personnel Administration, Directorate 
of Personnel Administration. Army headquarters, 
Sri Jayewardenepura, Colombo, to reach there no 
later than 1200 hrs on 16.11.2024 by the registered 
post. Application for Specialist Doctor in the Army 
(profession) should be marked on the top left upper 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
applications received at army Headquarters after the 
closing date or do not conform to the requirements of 
this notification will be rejected. Printed applications 
will not be issued.
15. the application should be submitted along with a copy of 
the following certificates:
a. Birth certificate.
b. Certificates in support of educational qualifications 
claimed.
c. School leaving certificate.
d. Certificate issued by Grama Niladhari.
e. Police clearance certificate.
f. Degree Certificate.
g. Working experience.  
h. Certificates in support of sports/ co-curricular 
activities.
i. At least two recent certificates of character from 
responsible persons (who can issue a character 
certificate) who are personally acquainted with the 
applicant, one of whom should be the Principal of 
the last school attended by the applicant.
j. National identity card and recently obtained 
certified photograph. (size 2" x 2 1/2").
k. Letter of recommendation from the Head of the 
institute.
16.  Conducting Interviews: Preliminary selections will be 
made from among those candidates who fulfilled the 
above requirements. Selected candidates will be required 
to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the commander 
of the Army. The final selections will be made after an 
interview of elected candidates, by a Selection board 
appointed by the ministry of defence. 
17. Selected interview candidates will be informed in writing 
of the place, time, and date (personal emails of the 
candidates) of respective interviews. the interviews will 
take place in colombo. traveling or other expenses will 
not be paid by the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka in this respect.
18. anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should 
do so by giving him/ her a testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence the selection of a 
candidate will result in the disqualification of such 
candidate.
19. Disqualified applicants will not be notified, and inquiries 
regarding disqualification will not be entertained. 
Note: this Gazette Notification  is published in Sinhala, 
English and tamil in the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala, English and tamil texts of this Gazette Notification , 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
     
 H L V M Liyanage RWP RSP ndu, 
 Lieutenant General, 
 commander of the army. 
army Headquarters,
Sri Jayawardanepura,
colombo. 
21st october, 2024.
11-135/1
______________________________
SRI   LANkA   ARmy
Callig of Applications for Direct Enlist Officers 
v acancies in the Regular force of the Sri Lanka 
Army
1. aPPLicatioNS  are invited for other Professional 
Officer Vacancies in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka 
army as follows:
a. dental Surgeon. 
b. information t echnology. 
c. civil Engineering.
d. Electrical Engineering.
e. mechanical Engineering. 
f. Electrical and mechanical Engineering.
g. architect, Surveyor.
h. accountant.
i. Sound administration Engineering.
j. Dance Troupe Officer (Cultural). 
k. Psychology Officer. 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2334
2. Selected applicants will undergo a short-term army 
basic training course, after which will be appointed to 
the authority of the rank at which they are enlisted and 
inducted into the regiments/corps in the regular forces of 
the Sri Lanka army. 
3. Basic Qualifications:
a. citizenship : Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
b. marital status : as mentioned under the 
occupations section. 
c. Age : As specified under the occupation 
section. 
d. Height : male - Should not be less than 5ʹ6 ʹʹ . 
Female - Should not be less than 
5ʹ 3ʹʹ.
e. Weight : male - Should not be less than 55 kg.  
Female - Should not be less than 
45 kg.
f. chest :  male - Should not be less than 32ʹʹ.
g. Eyesight : Without glasses, the right eye’s 
vision should be 6/6, and the 
vision in the left eye should also be 
6/9. in cases where vision is 6/18, 
candidates who can achieve 6/6 
vision on the right and 6/9 vision 
in the left will be considered with 
glasses.
h. medical condition  : must pass the medical test 
conducted by the army 
Hospital (damS).
i. body mass index     : between 18.5 Kg/m
2 - 25 
kg/m 2.
4. Basic Educational Qualification:
a. Should have passed the GcE (a/L) Examination 
with three (03) Simple Passes and obtained 30% 
marks for the common General test, in one (01) 
sitting and not more than three (03) attempts with 
“yES” for university admission. 
 aNd
b. Should have passed eight (08) subjects with five (5) 
credit (c) passes in one sitting and not more than 
two attempts and obtained  credit passes for English 
Language, mathematics, Science and Sinhala/
tamil Language in not more than three attempts at 
the GcE (o/L) examination or the candidates who 
have obtained a simple pass for English at the GcE 
(o/L) will be considered if they have obtained a 
Credit pass for English subject at the  GCE (A/L) 
examination or possess any diploma/degree in 
English medium NVQ Level - 4 or above offered 
by a university/institute recognized by University 
Grant Commission (NVQ certificate should be 
submitted)
oR
c. an equivalent result obtained at an internationally 
recognized examination (Pearson Edexcel, GcSE, 
GcE, and cambridge or any other) as recognized 
by the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka as 
equivalents to the GcE (o/L) and the GcE (a/L) 
Examinations in Sri Lanka (including compulsory 
subjects above). 
5. Other Qualifications. Proficiency in language/s other 
than Sinhala and English, Sports, leadership and any 
other achievements of national and international levels 
are considered as an added qualification. 
6. General Instructions: 
 a. Officer Cadets are not allowed to get married 
during the training period (only for unmarried 
occupations).
 b. all candidates should be in good health and must 
undergo the army medical test.
7.  Dental Officers (Captain):
a. male/ Female (both can apply). 
b.  married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to those below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. y ou should have a bdS degree from a UGc-
recognized University in Sri Lanka or a degree 
equivalent to a bdS from a recognized foreign 
University approved by UGc and recognized by 
the medical council. 
e. Should have full registration in the Sri Lanka 
medical council as a dental Surgeon.
f. Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years’ Service in 
the dental Profession.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2335
8. Dental Officers (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply). 
b. marital Status - Unmarried. 
c. Preference will be given to those below 28 years of age by 08 November 2024.
d. Should have a bdS degree from a UGc-recognized University in Sri Lanka or a degree equivalent to bdS from a 
recognized foreign University approved by UGc and recognized by the medical council. 
9.  IT Officer (Captain):
SER PROfESSION PROfESSIONAL QuALIfICATIONS
1 Software Engineer directly enlisted in the rank of captain.
male/ Female (both can apply).
married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
Preference will be given to who below 32 years of age by 08 
November 2024.
Should possess a bSc degree in a relevant discipline from 
a local or foreign university recognized by the UGc in Sri 
Lanka. 
Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial
Experience in a relevant field (Academic internship will not 
be considere d as experience).
2 Network Engineer
3 Hardware Engineer
4 it analyst
5 it auditor
6 Network Security Engineer
7 cyber Security Specialist
8 cyber crime analyst
9 incident analysis Responder
10 Visual communication Engineer
10. Civil Engineer (Captain):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b.  married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to those below 32 years of age by 08 November 2024.
d.  Successful completion of bSc Engineering /bachelor of technology degree in civil Engineering from a university 
recognized by the University Grants commission (UGc) Sri Lanka. 
e.  Successful completion of Part i & ii (old syllabus) or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in civil Engineering 
conducted by the institution of Engineering Sri Lanka.
f.  Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial Experience in a relevant Field (academic internship will not be 
considered as experience).
11. Civil Engineer (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b.   marital Status - Unmarried.
c.   Preference will be given to who below 28 years of age by 08 November 2024.
d.  Successful completion of NdES, HNdE, and Ndt  conducted by the University of moratuwa or Higher National 
diploma in conducted by the advanced technological institute mattakkuliya.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2336
e.  Successful completion of Part i & ii (old Syllabus) 
or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in 
civil Engineering conducted by the institution of 
Engineering Sri Lanka.
f.   Successful completion of NdES, HNdE, Ndt  from 
an institute recognized by the Government in Sri 
Lanka.
g. Should have a minimum of 2 years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
12. Electrical Engineer (Captain):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to who below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Successful completion of bSc Engineering/ bachelor 
of technology degree in Electrical Engineering 
from a recognized University in Sri Lanka. 
e. Successful completion of Part i & ii (old Syllabus) 
or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in 
Electrical Engineering conducted by the institution 
of Engineering Sri Lanka.
f.  Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
13. Electrical Engineer  (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. marital Status – Unmarried.  
c.  Preference will be given to those below 28 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Successful completion of NdES, HNdE, and Ndt  
conducted by the University of moratuwa or Higher 
National diploma conducted by the advanced 
technological institute mattakkuliya.
e. Successful completion of Part i & ii (old Syllabus) 
or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in 
Electrical Engineering conducted by the institution 
of Engineering Sri Lanka.
f. Should have at least 2 years of industrial Experience 
in a relevant field (Academic internship will not be 
considered as experience).
14. mechanical Engineer (Captain):
a.  male/ Female (both can apply).
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c.  Preference will be given to who below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Successful completion of bSc Engineering/ bachelor 
of technology degree in mechanical Engineering 
from a recognized University in Sri Lanka.
e.   Successful completion of Part i & ii (old Syllabus) 
or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in 
mechanical Engineering conducted by the institution 
of Engineering Sri Lanka.
f. Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial 
Experience in a Relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
15. mechanical Engineer (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to who below 28 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Successful completion of NdES, HNdE, and Ndt  
conducted by the University of moratuwa or Higher 
National diploma conducted by the advanced 
technological institute mattakkuliya.
e. Successful completion of Part i & ii (old Syllabus) 
or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in 
mechanical Engineering conducted by the institution 
of Engineering Sri Lanka.
f. Should have at least 2 years of industrial Experience 
in a relevant Field (academic internship will not be 
considered as experience).
16.  Architect Officer (Captain):
a.  male/ Female (both can apply).
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to who below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Successful completion of bSc (built Environment) or 
mSc (architect) or mSc (t own & country planning) 
or mSc (Landscaping) conducted by the University 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2337
of moratuwa.e Successful completion of b/arch 
degree conducted by the University of moratuwa.
e.  Successful completion of Part i & ii of the professional 
examinations conducted by the Sri Lanka institute of 
Architects or Equivalent qualifications recognized by 
the Sri Lanka institute of architects.
f.  Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
17. Architect Officer (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b.  marital Status - Unmarried. 
c.  Preference will be given to those below 28 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Successful completion of bSc (built Environment) 
or mSc (architect) or mSc (t own & country 
planning) or mSc (Landscaping) conducted by the 
University of moratuwa.
e. Successful completion of NdES, HNdE, and Ndt  
conducted by the University of moratuwa or Higher 
National diploma in conducted by the advanced 
technological institute mattakkuliya.
f. Successful completion of b/arch degree conducted 
by the University of moratuwa.
g. Successful completion of Part i & ii of the professional 
examinations conducted by the Sri Lanka institute of 
Architects or Equivalent qualifications recognized 
by the Sri Lanka institute of architects.
h. Should have at least 2 years of industrial Experience 
in a relevant field (Academic internship will not be 
considered as experience).
18. Surveyor Officer (Captain):
a.  male/ Female (both can apply).
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c.  Preference will be given to those below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d.  Successful completion of a bSc Surveying degree 
from a University recognized by the institution of 
Engineers.
e.  bSc in Surveying conducted by the institute of 
Surveying & mapping at diyatalawa. 
f.   Successful completion of Part i & ii (old Syllabus) 
or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in 
mechanical Engineering conducted by the institution 
of Engineering Sri Lanka.
g. Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant Field (academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
19. Surveyor Officer (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. marital Status – Unmarried.  
c.  Preference will be given to who below 28 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Successful completion of NdES, HNdE, Ndt  
from an institute recognized by the Government in  
Sri Lanka. 
e.  National diploma in technology or Engineering 
Sciences conducted by the University of moratuwa 
or institute of Engineering technology Katunayake 
or Higher National diploma is conducted by the 
advanced technological institute mattakkuliya.
f. Successful completion of Part i & ii (old Syllabus) 
or Part i, ii & iii (New Syllabus) examination in 
mechanical Engineering conducted by the institution 
of Engineering Sri Lanka.
g.  Should have a minimum of 2 years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
20. Electrical and mechanical Engineering (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b.  marital Status - Unmarried.
c.  Preference will be given to who below 28 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d.  Should have a minimum of 2 years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience). 
e.  National diploma in technology (Ndt) in 
mechanical Engineering conducted by the University 
of moratuwa. 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2338
or
 Higher National diploma in mechanical Engineering 
(HNdE) conducted by advance t echnological 
institute, mattakkuliya
or
 National diploma in Engineering Science (NdES) in 
mechanical Engineering conducted by the institute 
of Engineering t echnology, Katunayake
or
 National Certificate in Technology (NCT) awarded 
by the commission of examination with 5 years of 
experience in the relevant field
or
 Full t echnological diploma NVQL-5(mechanical)
conducted by city & Guilds of London institute 
UK / National V ocational Qualification Framework 
(NVQL-6)  in Sri Lanka
or
 Successful completion of diploma in t echnology 
(mechanical) conducted by the open University 
of Sri Lanka
or
 Equivalent qualifications recognized by the 
institution of incorporated Engineers, Sri Lanka & 
iESL Electrical & mechanical Engineering 
or
 Any other qualification from an authorized 
institute (University Grant commission/Naita)in  
Sri Lanka or abroad equal to or higher than.
 
21.  Account Officer (Captain):
a. only male candidates can apply.
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to who below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. bachelor’s degree in accounting/ Finance from 
any University recognized by UGc in Sri Lanka 
(minimum of 04 years full-time bachelor’s degree 
in Science with Special accountancy/ Financial 
management with Special accountancy/ Finance and 
commerce, 
     and
 institute of chartered accountants (ca  Sri Lanka) 
business Level ii (business Level ii) or equivalent 
qualification or Managerial Level of Institute of 
chartered management accountants (cima  - UK).
e. Should have a minimum of 2 years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
22. Sound Administration Engineering (Captain):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to who below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Should possess a Sound Engineering bSc degree in a 
relevant discipline from a local or foreign university 
recognized by the UGc in Sri Lanka. 
e. Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial 
Experience in a relevant Field (academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
23.  Dance Troupe Officer (Captain):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. married/ Unmarried (both can apply).
c. Preference will be given to who below 32 years of 
age by 08 November 2024.
d. Should possess a dancing degree in a relevant 
discipline from a local or foreign university 
recognized by the UGc in Sri Lanka. 
e. Should have a minimum of 2 ½ years of industrial 
experience in a relevant field (Academic internship 
will not be considered as experience).
24. Dance Troupe Officer (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. marital Status - Unmarried.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2339
c. Preference will be given to who below 28 years of age by 08 November 2024.
d. Should possess a dancing degree in a relevant discipline from a local or foreign university recognized by the UGc 
in Sri Lanka. 
e. Should have a minimum of 1 year of industrial experience in a relevant field (Academic internship will not be 
considered as experience).
25. Psychology Officer (Lieutenant):
a. male/ Female (both can apply).
b. marital Status - Unmarried.
c. Preference will be given to who below 28 years of age by 08 November 2024.
d. Should possess a bSc degree in Psychology from a Local or foreign University recognized by the UGc in Sri Lanka. 
e. Should have at least 06 months experience as a psychologist in the medical profession.
26. Conditions of Service:
a. candidates are required to undergo a short-term (03 months) military training at the academy after being enlisted in the 
Sri Lanka army.
b. Enlisted officers shall be subject to posting for duty/training in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad as may be decided by the 
commander of the army.
c. The status of cadets will be similar to the other ranks during the training period and they will be subject to military 
law and civil law.
d. applications of candidates/applicants working in public service and private sector should be submitted by the 
Head of the institution (departments, corporations, and civil institutions) with a certificate that the candidate 
can be exempted from full-time military service.
e. if at any time during his course, a cadet is reported by the authorities to be unsuitable for reasons of misconduct 
or for causes within his control for the issue of a commission, he will be required to refund to the Republic of Sri 
Lanka all expenses incurred by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
f. With effect from the date of enlistment, they must enter into bond agreements to serve the Sri Lanka Army for 10 
years from the date of appointment.
27. Withdrawal of Cadetship:
a.  in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his candidature for a commission during his period of training the parents 
or guardian will be required to refund to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up 
to that time by the d emocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to the account of the cadet.
b.  if at any time during his course, a cadet is reported by the authorities to be unsuitable for the issue of a 
commission, for reasons of misconduct or negative Security clearance for causes within his control, his parents or 
guardians will be required to refund to the d emocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred by the 
Republic of Sri Lanka to the account of the cadet.
c. any officer cadet who resigned or was discharged on medical grounds will not be re-enlisted to the army as an 
officer cadet on a subsequent occasion.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2340
28. Pay and Allowances. Commissioning as officers in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka army will be placed on the 
following salary scale, applicable to the officers of the Sri Lanka Army.
Ser Rank
Management Service Circular 3/2016
Consolidated Pay 
Year 2020
Salary Increments From 
01.01.2020
Maximum 
Consolidated Pay
1 Second Lieutenant Rs:  38,605.00 - -
2 Lieutenant Rs:  47,615.00 30 x 1335 (per annum) Rs:  87,665.00
3 captain Rs:  55,625.00 24 x 1335 (per annum) Rs:  87,665.00
4 Major Rs:  60,965.00 22 x 1335 (per annum) Rs:  90,335.00
5 Lieutenant colonel Rs:  62,595.00 22 x 1630 (per annum) Rs:  98,455.00
6 colonel Rs: 76,175.00 17 x 2170 (per annum) Rs: 113,065.00
7 brigadier Rs:  80,515.00 15 x 2170 (per annum) Rs: 113,065.00
8 Maj General Rs:  88,000.00 12 x 2700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
9 Lieutenant  General Rs:  93,400.00 10 x 2700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
10 General Rs: 101,500.00 7 x 2700 (per annum) Rs: 120,400.00
29. Other Allowances - the following allowances are payable monthly:
a. Qualification pay.
b. Free feeding or ration allowance.
c. Disturbance allowances when order to live in (For married officers only).
d. Uniform upkeep allowances.
30. the following facilities are available/allowances payable:
a. Free accommodation when ordered to live in.
b. When living in rented quarters a rent ceiling.
c. Free uniforms.
d. Batmen allowance to married officers or batmen service to unmarried officers.
e. one return duty warrants a month from the place of work to the home station to those who are ordered to “live in”.
31. Officers will be governed by the following regulations concerning their pay, prospects, and conditions of service.
a. the army Pay code. 
b. Regulations for officers, (Regular Force) 1992, published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No: 780/7 dated 17 th  august 1993 and as amended from time to time.
c. the army Pensions and Gratuities code, 1981, published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No: 562/11 dated 15 th  June 1989 and as amended from time to time.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2341
32. Parents or guardians will be required to sign a declaration as shown in paragraph 33 below, which should be forwarded 
with the application. Parents or guardians of selected candidates will be required to enter into a bond substantially 
in the form of declaration, with the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka before the appointment of these 
candidates.  Except in special cases, a cadet officer whose father is not alive his guardianship is vested in his mother 
or the guardian.
33. declaration to be signed by the parents or guardians of the applicant:
 a. i am the parent/guardian of ……………  who is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka army.
 b. i hereby undertake to be responsible, in the event of the above-named applicant being selected to attend a course of 
training in Sri Lanka or in overseas for the following:
(1) all private expenses which the applicant may incur during the period of his  
training.
(2) t o refund to the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred on his account by 
the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of the above-named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his candidature for a commission during the period of his training.
(3) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred on his account by the Republic of Sri Lanka 
if, at any time during his period of training, the above-named applicant is reported by the authorities to be 
unsuitable (For reasons of misconduct or causes within his control) for the issue of a commission.
*Strike out inappropriate words.
date …………………                                ………………………
                                           Signature of parent/guardian
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) 
………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………....................
date ……………………                      .....................................
        Signature of Witness
Name and address (clearly in block capitals) 
……………………………………………….......................
………………………………………………………………
34. Language Requirements. Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made or that may 
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and in 
particular for implementing the provisions of the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
35.  Proof of Identity. candidates will be required to produce proof of their identity. identity  cards issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons or Postmaster General and Driving licenses issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic will 
be accepted for this purpose.
36. Applications. Applications should be submitted in the applicant’s handwriting in terms of the forms specified below 
and should be forwarded to the Director of Personnel Administration, Directorate of Personnel Administration. 
Army headquarters, Sri Jayewardenepura, Colombo, to reach there no later than 1200 hrs on 16.11.2024 by the 
registered post. Application for Direct Enlistment Officer in the Army (profession) should be marked on the top left 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2342
upper corner of the envelope enclosing the application. 
applications received at army Headquarters after the 
closing date or do not conform to the requirements of 
this notification will be rejected. Printed applications 
will not be issued.
37.
 th e application should be submitted along with a copy
of the following certificates:
a . Birth certificate.
b. Certificates in support of educational qualifications
claimed.
c. School leaving certificate.
d. Certificate issued by Grama Niladhari.
e. Police clearance certificate.
f. Degree Certificate.
g. Working experience.
h. Certificates in support of sports/ co-curricular
activities.
i. At least two recent certificates of character from
responsible persons (who can issue a character
certificate) who are personally acquainted with the
applicant, one of whom should be the Principal of the
last school attended by the applicant.
j.
National Identity Card and recently obtained certified
photograph (size 2'' x 2 1/2'').
38. Conducting Interviews. Preliminary selections will be
made from among those candidates who fulfilled the
above requirements. Selected candidates will be required 
to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the 
commander 
of the Army. The final selections will be made after an
interview of elected candidates, by a Selection 
board
appointed by the ministry of defence.
39.  Selected interview candidates will be informed in writing 
of the place, time, and date ( to personal emails of the
candidates) of respective interviews. the interviews will
take place in colombo. No traveling or other expenses
will be paid by the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka in this respect.
40. anyone wishing to recommend a candidate should
provide a testimonial. any form of canvassing or
attempt to influence the selection process will result in
the disqualification of the candidate.
41. Disqualified applicants will not be notified, and inquiries
regarding disqualification will not be entertained.
Note: 
this Gazette Notification is published in Sinhala, 
English, and tamil in the event of any inconsistency 
between Sinhala, English, and tamil texts of this Gazette 
Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
H L V M Liyanage RWP RSP ndu, 
Lieutenant General, 
commander of the army. 
army Headquarters,
Sri Jayewardenepura,
colombo. 
21st october 2024.
11-135/2
______________________________
N ATIONAL   I NSTIT u TE   O f  S OCIAL  
D E v ELOP m ENT
Ministry of Women, Child Affairs and Social 
Empowerment
01. Post : Director (School of Social Work) - 01 v acancy
01. age Limit  : a pplicants should be not 
less than 25 years and not more than 50 
years of age on closing of applications. 
(
maximum age limit does not apply to 
for internal applicants.)
02. Educational Qualifications : f or External
Applicants ( b elow 1 
or 2)  
1. Should have a 04 years bachelor's degree in
Social Sciences from a university recognized by
the University Grants commission and a Post
Graduate degree in Social Work.
2. m inimum (15) years of experience in social work
education management aspects in public service,
statutory body or government recognized private 
institution.
3. Having at least 05 years of experience in a position
in the social work education management service
category of the National 
institute of Social
development in Grade i.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2343
03.  m ethod of allocating marks for the interview
Criteria Marks
Educational Qualifications (except basic 
qualification)
30 marks
Additional experience related to the field 30 marks
other performance/ Skills 15 marks
Performance at the interview 25 marks
Total marks 100
04. Salary Scale : H m 1-3: Rs. (86,865 - 15x2,270,
Rs. 120,915)
05.  c onditions of employment for the post -
i.  a ll applicants must be Sri Lanka citizens.
ii.  t he post is permanent.
iii.  c ontributions to the Employees' Provident Fund
shall be paid as per the percentages approved by
the Government.
iv. Subject to the three years probation.
Note : This post vacancy is in Seeduwa Head Office and 
selected candidates should work in Head Office. 
Conditions of service : Must be subject to the provisions 
of the National 
institute of Social 
development act, No. 41 of 1992 
and the rules and regulations 
enacted by the government from 
Recruitment methodology : Structured interview will be 
conducted by an interview 
panel as prescribed by the 
appointing authority. Selection 
will be done in order of merit 
from among the highest 
scorers.
applicants should send the applications with complete bio 
data to the following address by registered post on or before 
22.11.2024. 
the position applied for should be mentioned at 
the top left corner of the envelope, incomplete, unclear or 
late applications will be rejected. Officials employed in the 
public sector should submit their applications through the 
Head of the 
department/ institution.
Dr. Raveendra Withanachchi,
director General ( acting),
National institute of Social development.
director General ( acting),
National institute of Social development,
Liyanagemulla, Seeduwa.
04 November
, 2024.
11-171
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
DEPARTmENTAL  ExAmINATION  fOR  PRELI mINARy  GRADE  mEDICAL   OffICERS  
AND  DENTAL  SuRGEONS  - SEPTE mbER 2024
it is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade before 
promotion to grade II during a period of two years & Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service during a period of 
three years from the date of appointment to such post as per section 08 of the 
medical Service minute of Sri Lanka in the 
Health Services published in the Gazette e xtraor dinary of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 
11.10.2014, will be held on 21.12.2024 in Sinhala, tamil & English medium. the venue and the time of the examination will 
be notified along with the admission card.
02. Qualifications
Medical Officers in the Preliminary Grade who have not completed the relevant examination and Dental Surgeons who are 
not confirmed in the service can apply for this examination. Medical Officer appointed to a post in the Administrative Grade 
or Specialist Grade previously without having completed this examination also can apply for the above Examination.   
time to time.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2344
03. Applications  
applications prepared by the candidates as per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under registered cover to reach 
the director (Examinations), ministry of Health, No.385,Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, “Suwasiripaya” 
colombo 10, on or before  20.11.2024 through their Heads of institutions. mention “Departmental Examination for 
Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons - September 2024” on the top left corner of the envelope. 
The officer in charge of the personal files should have certified that the candidate have satisfied the qualifications required 
to sit for this departmental examination and the accuracy of the particulars furnished in each application should have been 
certified by the head of division. One self-addressed envelope (candidate can write their official or private address) in the 
size of 9” x 4” inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs.110.00 should be sent along with the application. (Applications 
which are received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected without any notice.) 
Note :   The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application so as to 
recommended from 01 to 04 (e) on the first front page and from 04 (f) to 09 on the second  page. Applications 
which do not conform to above will be rejected any information.
04. Examination fees :- 
 I Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees.  However in every subsequent 
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25/= per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application 
and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.  
 II the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination :- 
 I candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with admission cards.  they should duly 
complete and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination centre.  otherwise they will not be allowed to sit 
the examination.
 II candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the 
following documents will be accepted.  
(a)  National identity card
(b) a  formal identity card issued by the ministry of Health or a relevant institution
(c)   Valid driving License
  (d) Valid Passport
III if you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre 
and the index number through the website; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number 
as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the website together with a 
letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your 
identity. the applicants who have received the admission card should certify their signature and should be bought. 
The applicants who have obtained the certification on their signature will not be entitled to face the examination.  
(website- www.health.gov.lk)  
06. Scheme of the Examination :- 
the examination consists of four parts that is three written essay type question papers and a Sinhala/t amil oral test. 
Each part carries 100 marks. a  minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each part to pass the examination and this 
examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the examination in several sittings. at the 
first attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects. 

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2345
07. Syllabus of the Examination
07.1 Written Examination 
07.1.1 Establishments Code Questions Paper
Duration 02 hours.  Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. 
Syllabus
 (i) General Regulations of the department of Health Services in Health ministry
 (ii) orders and Regulations of the Public Service commission
 (iii) Establishments code
Part i   -   chapters  Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, XViii, XXiii, XXiV ,   
  XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii
Part ii  -  chapters   XLVii & XLViii 
07.1.2 Administration of hospitals & Dispensaries Questions Paper
duration 1
1 / 2 hours.  t otal marks 100. Should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
Syllabus
health manual  
 i. administration of Hospital and Public Health 
 ii. management of Laboratory Services
 iii. management of drugs  
07.1.3 Accounts Questions Paper
duration 02 hours.  Should answers 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
Syllabus
  (i) Regulations of Stores accounts of the department of Health Services
  (ii) Sections of Finance in the manual of the department of Health Services
  (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health 
chapter i   -   F.R 1, 2, 78 
chapter ii   -   F.R 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119 
chapter iii   -  F.R 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 
143, 151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189 
chapter V   -   F.R 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260 
chapter Vi   -  F.R 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393, 394 
chapter Vii   -   F.R 488, 493 
chapter Xiii  -   F.R 715, 716, 756, 757, 758 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2346
Procurement Guideline                
chapter 1  -  all Sections             
chapter 2  - Section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8    
chapter 3  - Section number -  3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9
07.2 v iva v oce - Sinhala/Tamil
  This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure the proficiency in 
Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium and the 
ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that 
arise while discharging their normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes  
08. To follow the Regulations Related to Examination Procedure
candidates  are warned against copying or attempting to copy from the script of another  candidate or from any book or 
paper or notes whatsoever.  No candidate should attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help 
any candidate either help another candidate or obtain help from another candidate or person. Further mobile phones & 
the similar electronic equipments should not be used. any candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment.
09. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division / Specialized Campaign/ 
institution. the information is also available in the website – www.health.gov.lk 
n.b -  In case of any inconsistency between the texts Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala Language 
shall prevail.              
 dr . P. G. Mahipala,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Health. 
ministry of Health,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385,
Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10.
05th November, 2024.
Specimen form of application
Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade medical Officers &
Dental Surgeons - September  2024 
01. (a) i. Full Na me of the applicant (in Sinhala) : ……………………………………………………………… 
...................................................................................................................................................................
ii. Full Name of the applicant (in English capitals block Letters )
iii.Name w ith initials(in Sinhal a) : ………………………………………………………………………...
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………... 
iv. Name with initials (in English block Letter s)
(b) i. designation (Please mark ( √) in relevant cage)
i. medical officer ii. dental Surgeon
ii. date of internship appointment :- .............................................
iii.date of appointment to the preliminary Grade / Grade ii :- .............................................
02. Subjects Offered (m ark “ ” within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X”
against the subjects not offered)
admin ' of H os pitals & dispensaries Establishments code accounts
Sinhala Viva Voce  tamil Viva Voce
03. medium you sit for the examination (Mark " ” in relev ant cage)
Sinhala     English    tamil
04. (a) i. Present Station  :- .............................................................................................................................
ii. this ins titution belongs to ; Line min istry
Provinc ial council
(b) i.  if Provincial council mention Province: .........................................................................................
ii. district of the Present Station :- ................................................................................................ 
(c) i.mobile telephone No.
ii. E-ma il address : …………………………………………………………………………………
(d)
(e) 
colombo
Kaluthara
Kurunegala
Kandy
Galle
anuradhapura
batticaloa
Kandana
Jaffna
Rathnapura
badulla
Hambantota ampara
Vavuniya
Polonna ruwa
trincomale e
for Office use Only
National identity card N o.
Please mark '√' in the relevant cage oft he examination centre you p referout ofthe followingcenters.
( if any  o r s everal examination centers, out o f t hose given b elow,would b e cancelled d ue to a  
departmental requirement o r due to absence of a sufficientnumber o f candidates.  i n such an instance,  
the candidates already a ttached t o s uch centers would b e re-a ttached to a  closest examination center or 
to a nother center as d ecided b y  t he director G eneral of H ealth S ervices)

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2347
Specimen form of application
Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade medical Officers &
Dental Surgeons - September  2024 
01. (a) i. Full Na me of the applicant (in Sinhala) : ……………………………………………………………… 
...................................................................................................................................................................
ii. Full Name of the applicant (in English capitals block Letters )
iii.Name w ith initials(in Sinhal a) : ………………………………………………………………………...
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………... 
iv. Name with initials (in English block Letter s)
(b) i. designation (Please mark ( √) in relevant cage)
i. medical officer ii. dental Surgeon
ii. date of internship appointment :- .............................................
iii.date of appointment to the preliminary Grade / Grade ii :- .............................................
02. Subjects Offered (m ark “ ” within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X”
against the subjects not offered)
admin ' of H os pitals & dispensaries Establishments code accounts
Sinhala Viva Voce  tamil Viva Voce
03. medium you sit for the examination (Mark " ” in relev ant cage)
Sinhala     English    tamil
04. (a) i. Present Station  :- .............................................................................................................................
ii. this ins titution belongs to ; Line min istry
Provinc ial council
(b) i.  if Provincial council mention Province: .........................................................................................
ii. district of the Present Station :- ................................................................................................ 
(c) i.mobile telephone No.
ii. E-ma il address : …………………………………………………………………………………
(d)
(e) 
colombo
Kaluthara
Kurunegala
Kandy
Galle
anuradhapura
batticaloa
Kandana
Jaffna
Rathnapura
badulla
Hambantota ampara
Vavuniya
Polonna ruwa
trincomale e
National identity card N o.
Please mark '√' in the relevant cage oft he examination centre you p referout ofthe followingcenters.
( if any  o r s everal examination centers, out o f t hose given b elow,would b e cancelled d ue to a  
departmental requirement o r due to absence of a sufficientnumber o f candidates.  i n such an instance,  
the candidates already a ttached t o s uch centers would b e re-a ttached to a  closest examination center or 
to a nother center as d ecided b y  t he director G eneral of H ealth S ervices)

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2348
(f) Whether one self - ad dressed envelope in the size of 9 x 4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of
Rs. 110.00 has been attached to the application to post the admission card? ............................................
(g) (i) Postal address to post the admis sion card  (in Sinha la ) :- ……………………………………... 
…...............................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Postal address to post the admission card (in English): -……………………... ...........................
...................................................................................................................................................................
05. (a) Whether you sit for the examinati on for the first time: - ...........................................................................
(b) if not so, have you affixed stamps to the application?  - ............................................................................
06. Certificate of t he candidate : -
(i) i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my
knowledge and i need not affix stamps since i sit the Examination for the first time / have affixed stamps
to the value of Rs. .......... since i repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application
are genuine and not used.
(ii) i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the ministry of Health for the conduct of this
Examination and if i was found ineligib le in accordance with the scheme of the Examination i agree with
whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
date .............................. ..........................................
Signature of the candidate
07. Certification of the officer who handle the personal file.
i certify that this application has been delivered to me before/ pass the last date of receipt and that the
application has correctly completed this application as per the information in the personal file and that he has
met the qualifications required to appear for departmental examination and that a copy of this application has
been filed in the personal file
date : ……………………..              ...…….….…………………. 
Name and Signature
08. Certification of head of Institution:
i certify that mr./mrs./miss……………………………… serves as a …………………….. in this institution, 
and the particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her 
personal file, and he/she sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.  
date :…………………….. …………………………………. 
Signature of the Head of institution
(Rubber Stamp)  
09. Certificate of t he head of Decentralized unit / specialized Campaig n
*mr/mrs/ miss ....................................................................................................serves as a medical officer / d ental 
Surgeon* in my division / campaign* and the particulars furnished by him / her* in the application are correct 
in accordance with the particulars available in his / her* personal file and he / she* is eligible to sit for the 
Examination.
date .......................... .........................................................
Signature of H ead o f decentralized u nit/
Specialized campaign
(Frank /  Rubber Stamp)
(* - de lete words which are inapplicable)
Stamp cage

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'11'08
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2024
2349
(f) Whether one self - ad dressed envelope in the size of 9 x 4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of
Rs. 110.00 has been attached to the application to post the admission card? ............................................
(g) (i) Postal address to post the admis sion card  (in Sinha la ) :- ……………………………………... 
…...............................................................................................................................................................
(ii) Postal address to post the admission card (in English): -……………………... ...........................
...................................................................................................................................................................
05. (a) Whether you sit for the examinati on for the first time: - ...........................................................................
(b) if not so, have you affixed stamps to the application?  - ............................................................................
06. Certificate of t he candidate : -
(i) i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my
knowledge and i need not affix stamps since i sit the Examination for the first time / have affixed stamps
to the value of Rs. .......... since i repeat the Examination,* and the stamps affixed by me to the application
are genuine and not used.
(ii) i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the ministry of Health for the conduct of this
Examination and if i was found ineligib le in accordance with the scheme of the Examination i agree with
whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
date .............................. ..........................................
Signature of the candidate
07. Certification of the officer who handle the personal file.
i certify that this application has been delivered to me before/ pass the last date of receipt and that the
application has correctly completed this application as per the information in the personal file and that he has
met the qualifications required to appear for departmental examination and that a copy of this application has
been filed in the personal file
date : ……………………..              ...…….….…………………. 
Name and Signature
08. Certification of head of Institution:
i certify that mr./mrs./miss……………………………… serves as a …………………….. in this institution, 
and the particulars furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her 
personal file, and he/she sit the examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and 
he/she placed his/her signature in my presence.  
date :…………………….. …………………………………. 
Signature of the Head of institution
(Rubber Stamp)  
09.
Certificate of t he head of Decentralized unit / specialized Campaig n
*mr/mrs/ miss ....................................................................................................serves as a medical officer / d ental 
Surgeon* in my division / campaign* and the particulars furnished by him / her* in the application are correct 
in accordance with the particulars available in his / her* personal file and he / she* is eligible to sit for the 
Examination.
date .......................... .........................................................
Signature of H ead o f decentralized u nit/
Specialized campaign
(Frank /  Rubber Stamp)
(* - de lete words which are inapplicable)
Stamp cage
11 - 181
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtmENt  oF   GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.