

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1331
1331
¡â¤ 1 ,472 _ 2006  ï¾åÉæ´Ú 17 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.11.17
No. 1,472 – FRIDAY,  NOVEMBER 17,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... —
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1333
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 24th November, 2006 should reach the Government
Press on or before 12 noon on 10th November, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
 Part III of the Gazette No. 1471 of 10.11.2006 was not published

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1332
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1333
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  THE
WRITTEN  TEST  ON  COMPUTER  SKILLS  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGE-
MENT  ASSISTANTS’  SERVICE  -  2006  (I)
 IT is hereby notified that an efficiency bar examination and
a written test on computer skills for officers in class III of the
Public Management Assistants’ Service will be held by the Com-
missioner -General of Examination as per the provisions of the
relevant approved service minutes in the month of February,
2007.
2.0 Information on the eligibility of the candidates are fur-
nished in Section Nos. 5  and 9 of the Public Management As-
sistants’ Service Minute published in the Government Gazette
No. 1372/23 of 24.12.2004 . Any officer who had been
appointed to a post in the Combined Services before 01.01.2004
should have been confirmed in his/her post as per the relevant
service minute after fulfilling the requisite relevant to that
service. Provisions  of Public Management Assistants’ Service
Minute will apply totally for an officer who has assumed duties
in a post after 01.01.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public Man-
agement Assistants’ Service will be held in Colombo, Galle,
Kandy, Jaffna, Batticaloa, Matara, Kurunegala, Rathnapura,
Badulla, and Anuradhapura. The relevant towns and town
numbers are given below.
Town Town  No.
Colombo 01
Galle 02
Kandy 03
Jaffna 04
Batticaloa 05
 Matara 06
Kurunegala 07
Rathnapura 08
Badulla 09
Anuradhapura 10
A centre without sufficient number of candidates will be
cancelled.
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the Com-
missioner-General of Examinations and the candi-
dates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him.
(ii)The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification. Can-
didates will be subject to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner General  Examination
for violation of these rules and regulations.
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the
form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants
should prepare the applications themselves according to the
specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by the
registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the Commissioner-General of Examinations, Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examination,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 18th December, 2006. The
name of the Examination should be indicated in the top left hand
corner of the envelop of the application. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
6.0  Identity of the Candidates :- Candidates will be required
to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction
of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose,
one of the following documents should be submitted to the
supervisor.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the
above mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion
of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.0  Applications - Applications should be prepared in a
paper of A4 size in such a manner that para  Nos. 1.0 to 8.0
appear on the first page. The application could be typewritten
but should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidates own
handwriting.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st
time need not pay examination fees. However, stamps to the
value of Rs. 90 for the whole examination and stamps to the
value of Rs. 50 for a single subject should be affixed for subse-
quent sittings. The stamps should be duly cancelled by placing
signature of the candidate and the date. Under any circumstances,
the fees will not be refunded or transferred in respect of any
other examination.
8.0  The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates
whose applications have been received. Candidates should get
their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall, Candidates
without admission cards will not be permitted to sit for the
examination. If a candidate has not received his/her admission
card at least seven days before the day of examination, he/she
should, without delay, inform the Commissioner-General of
Examinations, Department of Examiantions, Organizations and
Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatte, Battaramulla. (Tel-
egraphic address “Exams”: Batttaramulla) about the non-receipt
of admission card along the with  following information.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1334
(i) Name of the Examination
(ii)Full name of the candidate
(iii)Full postal address
(iv) Post office, registration number and the date of
dispatch.
9.0 The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave
for officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No traveling expenses will be paid.
10.0  The officers may sit for this examinations either in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examinations to
the service or in one of the official languages. Candidates who
entered the service without a competitive examination may sit
for the examination in their medium of education or in one of the
official languages.
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at
different occasions at their discretion. However they should
score at least 40% of the total marks for each subject,  for a
pass.
12.0  Commissioner-General of Examination will release the
results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services, and names of the successful candidates will be published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
13.0  Examination Procedure - Candidates should sit for a
written examination which will consist of the following subjects.
Subject Marks Duration Subject No.
(i) Office systems 100 01 Hr. 01
(ii)Accounting System 100 01 Hr. 02
(iii)Computer Test 100 1 1/2 Hr. 03
13.1 Office Systems.—
Basic knowledge in office systems adopted in
government offices and the ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. Further,
the candidates ability of understanding official
correspondence, ability of  indicating observations/
ideas precisely and clearly and the skill of drafting
letters as per the instructions given will be tested.
13.2 Accounting Systems.—
Candidates knowledge in and understanding for basic
accounting procedure adopted in government office and
the purposes of books and records on financial control
will be tested.
13.3 Test on Computer Skills.—
Objective of this test is to verify the candidates’ skills
on the following.
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating Systems
File Management
World Processing
Basic skills, Screen Familiarization, Editing Text
Aligning Text, Fonts and Attributes, Indenting
Paragraphs, change of Line Spacing
Tab Settings, Finding and replacing text, Spelling and 
Grammar Thesaurus
Working with columns, Page setup
Printing documents, Creating Tables, Sorting Text
File Management
Mail Merging
Working with macros
Spreadsheets
Basic Skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges, Insertion and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating Charts
Printing
@function
Working with Macros, File Management
Databases
Introduction, Basic Skills
Databases - Creation and application
Forms
Linked forms, Popup forms, Dialog and message boxes
Queries
Sorting
Reports
Working with macros
Presentations/Graphics
Basic Skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting images, clip art and graphs
Slide Transition and effects, Animations
using Presentation tools, Preparing Masters, Printing slides
and notes

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1335
Internet
Introduction to Internet, world Wide Web, How to
Navigate Internet Practical
E-mail
Introduction, basic skills, receiving mail, sending mail,
responding to mails
Working with attachments, Creating and using nick names
Composing messages
Note.–
As per Section 5:1:2 of Public Management Assistants’
Service Minute, officers who posses computer driving licenses
awarded by National Apprentice and industrial Training
Authority or an equivalent or a higher certificate issued by
institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and V ocational
Education Commission, which are given in Appendix I, will be
exempted from the written test on computer skills.
14.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined
Services will be final in any matter not provided for in this
notification.
A. N
OBERT ,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration,
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
01st November, 2006.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
Efficiency Bar Examination and the Written Test on
Computer Skills for officers in Class III of Public
Management Assistants’ Service - 2006 (I)
(For Office Use Only)
1.0 1.1 Name with Initials :————.
(In block capitals and with initials at the end of
the name)
Eg. SILV A A.B.
1.2 Name with Initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil and with initials at the end of
the name)
1.3 Names denoted by Initials :————.
(In block capitals )
1.4 Names denoted by Initials :————.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.0 Work Station and Address:
2.1 Name and Address of the Office/Department/
Institute :————.
(In Block Capitals)
2.2 Name and Address of the Office/Department/
Institute :————.
(In Sinahala/Tamil).
(The Admission Card will be sent to this addresss.)
3.0 National Identity Card No :
4.0 Name and number of the town in which the candidate
sits the exam :
Town :————. Town No. :-
(Indicate the name and the number of the town as per
para 3.0 of the Gazette Notification It will not be
allowed to change this subsequently).
5.0 Medium of Examination :-
Sinhala-2/Tamil-3/English -4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. It will  not be
allowed to change this subsequently).
6.0 Sex .
Female - 1, Male - 0
(indicate the relevant number in the cage).
7.0 Present Post
7.1 Post :————.
7.2 Appointment Letter Number :————.
8.0 Subject/s you are offering now :————.
(Refer para No. 13.0 of the Gazette Notification)
Serial No. Subject Subject No.
1.
2.
3.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1336
9.0 9.1 Are you  sitting the examination for the first time
? :————.
9.2 If not, value of the stamps affixed :————.
9.3 Stamp Cage :
Please affix Stamps to the value of Rs. 90 for
whole Examination and Rs. 50 for only one
subject.
N.B. — Candidates should affix stamps to the correct value
and cancel them by placing his/her signature and date on them.
Stamps should not overlap when affixed.
I declare that the information furnished above are correct and
that I am eligible sit for the examination in the language medium
mentioned above. The stamps affixed are valid and are to the
value of Rs…… I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of
this examination.
——————.
Signature of Applicant.
Date : —————.
Note:—  Candidate should place his/her signature in the
presence of his/her respective Department Head or an officer
assigned to sign on behalf of Department Head.
Attestation of Signature
I certify that Mr./Mrs/Miss………………………………who
is an employee of my work station and who is personally known
to me placed his/her signature in my presence
on………………….
...............................................
Signature and official stamp
of the person attesting.
Name : ————.
Designation : ————.
Address : ————.
Date : ————.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified
 and ;
(ii) The Officer* has/has not appeared for the examination
previously ;
(iii)The Officer has appeared for the examination previously
and*he/she has affixed stamps to the correct value ;
(iv) He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words).
...............................................
Signature and official stamp of
the Head of the Department.
Name : ————.
Designation : ————.
Address : ————.
Date : ————.
Appendix I
The document of computer certificates issued by institutions
recognized by Tertiary Education and Vocational Education
Commission.:
Serial Name of Address of Course
No. Institute Institute
01. A.C.T. No. D768/3, Diploma in
Studies Pandukabahaya Information
Mawatha, Ampara and
Communication
Technology
02. Bureau of Sky Line Building, Diploma in
Information 50-52, Colombo Information
Technology Road, Chilaw and
Communication
Technology
03. Don Bosco Ettukala, Negombo Diploma in
Technical Computer
Centre  Science
04. Technical No. 4, Sri Dhamma Diploma in
Education Mawatha, Information
Institute Colombo 10 and
Communication
Technology
05. Technology No. 9, Wilmate Diploma in
of Computer Balasooriya Computer
College of Mawatha, Nupe, Science
Sri Lanka Matara
06. Special V ocational Diploma in
V ocational Training, System Design
Training Authority of Programming
Centre Sri Lanka,  Fort,
(Computer) Matara

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1337
07. Le Echole No. 225, Negombo Diploma in
Computer Road, Kandana Computer
Systems Operation
(Pvt.) Ltd. and
Applicatioins
08. Open Arc No. 377B, High Diploma in
Computer Level Road, Computer
Science  Nugegoda  Science
School Ltd.
09. Brightway No. 174/1, Kandy Diploma in
Institute Road, Kiribathgoda Computer
(Pvt.) Ltd. Operation
and
Applications
10. SLIATE Sri No. 98, Labuduwa, Higher National
Lanka Akmeemana Diploma in
Institute of Technology
Advance
Technical
Education
11. IDM No. 5, Visaka Road, Diploma in
Computer Colombo 04 Computer
Studies (Pvt.)  Studies
Ltd.
12. IDM No. 5B, Hakmana Diploma in
Computer Road, Matara Computer
Studies (Pvt.) Scieence
Ltd.
13. Yowun National Y outh Diploma in
Sewana Services, Council Information
Centre Monaragala Technology
14. IDM No.725, Diploma in
Computer Peradeniya Road, Computer
Studies (Pvt.)Kandy  Studies
Ltd.
15. IDM No. 114A, Diploma in
Computer Janappriya Computer
Studies (Pvt.) Mawatha,Panadura  Studies
Ltd.
16. IDM No. 148, Diploma in
Computer Grins Road, Computer
Studies (Pvt.)Negombo Studies
Ltd.
17. IDM Wakwella Road, Diploma in
Computer G alle Computer
Studies (Pvt.) Studies
Ltd.
18. Cholankanda Udahathenna, Diploma in
Youth Gampola Computer
Training Studies
Centre
19. IDM No. 136, Main Diploma in
Computer Street, Computer
Studies (Pvt.)  Anuradhapura Studies
Ltd.
20. IDM No. 168/1, Diploma in
Computer Puttalam  Road, Computer
Studies (Pvt.)Kurunegala Studies
Ltd.
11-451
Serial Name of Address of Course
No. Institute Institute
Serial Name of Address of Course
No. Institute Institute
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
SRI  LANKA  CUSTOMS  DEPARTMENT
RECRUITMENT TO POSTS OF ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT OF CUSTOMS, CLASS II
THE Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to Posts
of Assistant Superintendent of Customs, Class II of the Sri
Lanka Customs Department will be held only in Colombo by
the Commissioner General of Examinations in about March,
2007. The date of the examination will be notified in due course
through the newspapers. The Public Service Commission
reserves the right of postponing or cancelling this examination.
Applications are invited for these posts from both sexes
possessing the qualifications given below :
02. Eligibility :-(i) Every candidate must furnish satisfactory
proof to the fact that he/she-

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1338
(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(b) is of excellent moral character ;
(c) is not less than 22 years and not more than 30 years of
age on the date of closing of applications ;
(d) Age limit does not apply for those holding Permanent
posts in Public Service.
(ii)Physical Requirements .- In the case of males, their
height should not be less than 5 feet 5 inches and chest
not less than 33 inches (when expanded).
In the case of females their height should not be less
than 5 feet 3 inches.
(iii)Educational Qualifications. - The candidates must
possess the following educational qualifications:-
(a) A Degree obtained from a recognized University;
and
(b) A Credit Pass in English Language obtained at the
Sri Lanka General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level)/National Certificate of General
Education or similar qualification in a higher
examination.
Note:- No person pending results of a degree examination
will be eligible to sit this examination. However, a person who
has passed a degree of a recognized University may be permitted
to sit this examination,when an official letter obtained from the
Registrar of the University is produced to the effect, that he/she
has passed the degree examination.
03. Conditions of Service .-(i) Salary - The Consolidated
annual salary scale attached to the post is as follows:-
Rs. 189,420-3,480x10-3,480 x 8 - 252,060. (Public
Administration circular No. 6/2006, M. N. 5).
(ii)The post is permanent; Oppointees are eligible for a
contributory pension under the Contributory Pension
Scheme, where appointee contributes 8% of the
monthly salary earned while the Government
contributes 12%.
Appointees who held a pensionable post before
01.01.2003 entitle for a pension under the Pension
Minute, and should contribute to the Widows’ and
Orphans/Widowers and Orphans’ Pension Scheme.
(iii)Successful candidates will be appointed subject to a
probationary period of three years with effect from
the date of appointment.
(iv)The appointees must undergo a medical examination
held by a Government Medical Officer to test whether
they are physically fit to serve in any part of the
island.
(v) The appointees are bound to serve day and night on
any part of the island.
(vi)The attention is invited to the General Conditions
applicable to the posts in Public Service which have
been published at the beginning of Part I: Section (IIA)
of the Government Gazette notification.
04. Scheme of Examination.— The Scheme of Examination
for recruitment is as follows :-
Marks
(01) Aptitude Test (01hour) 100
(02) English Language (01 1/2 hours) 100
                      Total 200
Aptitude Paper - This paper will consist of questions to test
the language skills, the ability in methamatical and logical
reasoning.
English Languge Paper - It is prepared to test the reading,
writing, comprehension and communication skills of the
candidates.
Note:— (i) This examination will be conducted in all the
three media Sinhala, Tamil and English.
Candidates should sit this examination in the
same language medium in which they passed the
qualifying examination referred to in paragraph
02 (iii) of the this notification (i. e. Sinhala or
Tamil or English). However, a candidate who
has passed the qualifying examination sitting it
in Tamil or English medium or a candidate who
was educated in Tamil or English medium may
answer in Sinhala Medium at the Examination if
he desires.
(ii)Marks will be deducted for bad handwriting and
wrong spelling. Candidates whose handwriting
is illegible are liable to be disqualified.
(iii)Admission cards of the examination will be sent
to the eligible candidates by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. But the receipt of an
admission card must not be treated as a
fulfillment of qualifications to sit the
examination.
(iv) Evaluation : Marks of 40% or above for each
question paper will be totaled and such
candidates will be called for the interview on the
descending order of totals according to the
prevailing number of vacancies. No marks will
be awarded at the interview, and considered only
the marks obtained at the written examination.
05. Basis of selection- Candidates who are successful at the
written examination and the interview will be selected for

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1339
conferment of appointments. Not more than 10% of the vacancies
will be reserved for female candidates.
06. It is compulsory for every candidate that, he/she should
have fulfilled all the requirements prior to the date of closing
applications for the examination.
07. Method of application:–
(i) A specimen form of the application has been given at
the end of this notification. Candidates should prepare
their application forms themselves in the medium on
which they intend to sit the examination conforming
to the specimen form referred to above and fill them in
their own handwriting. Every cage of the application
must be filled by the candidates as instructed and if
there are cages not applicable, the words “not
applicable” should be entered in such cages. It must be
noted strictly that leaving blank cages in the application
will cause the applications liable to be rejected. (Heading
numbers 01 to 06 of the specimen form should be on
the first page, 07 to 12 in the second page, and the rest
in the third page of the application that needs to be
prepared in A4 size papers.)
(ii)Applications must be sent under registered post on or
before 18 December, 2006. Any applications received
after the due date will be rejected. The name of the
examination should be written clearly on the top left-
hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
enclosed.
(iii)Examination fee of Rs. 300 may be paid at any district/
divisional secretariat office to the credit of revenue
head number 4000-20-03-20-13 of the Commissioner
General of Examinations. The receipt must be attached
to the application and it is advised to retain a
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. This fee
will not be refunded under any circumstances.
(iv) Candidates who are already employed in Government
Departments/ Boards/Corporations must forward their
applications through the Heads of their Departments
or Institutions in which they are serving at present.
Candidates are requested to forward their applications
to heads of their Departments or Institutions well in
time with a request that they be transmitted to the
Commissioner General of Examinations so as to reach
him on or before 18 December, 2006.
The applications should not be sent addressed
personally to the Director General of Customs or any
other officer of the Department. Applications received
after the due date, even if they are forwarded by the
departments will be rejected.
If the attestation of the signature of an applicant
who is in Government Service does not bear the
signature and the official seal of the Head of
Department/Head of the institution, such applications
will be rejected.
(v) Attestation.— The Signature of an applicant who is in
Government Service should be attested by his/her Head
of Department or by an officer authorized to do so on
his behalf.
The signature of other applicants should be attested by
a person authorized to do so, i.e.a justice of the Peace,
a Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, a Notary Public,
a Principal of a Government or a Director Managed School,
a Commissioned Officer of the Navy, Air Force or Army,
a permanent Government Officer drawing an annual salary of
Rs.230,700 or over, a Chief Incumbent or  a Head of a Buddhist
temple, any other religion in charge of a place of worship or
holding a position of importance.
08. Admission to the Examination- The Commissioner General
of Examinations will send admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been accepted. Candidates presenting
themselves for the examination must produce their admission
cards with duly attested signature to the Supervisor of the
Examination Hall. A candidate who fails to produce such a card
will be refused admission to the examination.
A candidate must sit the examination at the very examination
hall assigned to him/her. A candidate presenting himself/herself
at an examination hall other than the one assigned to him/her will
not be allowed to sit the examination. Every candidate presenting
himself/herself for the examination must hand over his/her
admission card to the Supervisor on the day of the examination
itself.
The rules for candidates are given separately in Part I : Section
(IIA) of this Gazette notification. Candidates will be bound to
observe these rules.
If a candidate does not receive his/her admission card at least
seven days before the day of examination he/she should
communicate without delay the Commissioner General of
Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organizing and
foreign examinations branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, informing
him that he/she has not received the admission form and given
the following particulars :-
(1) Name of Examinations ;
(2) Full name of Candidates ;
(3) Full postal address;
(4) Post Office at which application was registered,
Registration Number and date of dispatch of his/her
application.
09. Identity Cards.– Candidates will be required to prove
their identity. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for this purpose.
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1340
(b) A valid passport issued not more than three years
before the date of examination.
The Candidature of a candidate who fails to produce a
document referred to above is liable to be cancelled at the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10.Documents of Eligibility -
(i) No documents other than the receipt of examination
fee should be forwarded with the application. But the
necessary particulars should be provided in the form,
as prescribed. An application which is not completed
conforming to these requirements will be judged on its
own merits and may be rejected.
(ii)Documentary evidence in proof of eligibility will be
required. Candidates, who have qualified to be called
for the interview, should prove their identity producing
documentary proof.
(iii)The originals of the following documents will be
required :
(a) A certificate of moral character signed by a
responsible person.
Note.– The certificate of character may be obtained from a
justice of the Peace, Attorney-at-Law, Divisional Secretary of
the area of residence, or a permanent Government Officer in
receipt of an annual consolidated salary of Rs.230,700 or over
or some person whose name is known and to whom reference
can be readily made. The name, designation and address of the
person who issues the certificates must be clearly indicated on
the certificate.
Candidates holding permanent posts in Government service
will not be required to furnish certificate of moral character.
(b) A certified copy of the entry of the registration
of the birth of candidate or a Special Certificate
of age issued by the Register General (In the
case of candidates whose birth has been not
registered).
Note.– (i) The Special Certificate of Birth issued for school
or educational purposes, or a certified extract from
the birth registration entry will not be accepted.
(ii)Affidavits or Baptismal Certificate will not be
accepted as substitutes for birth certificates.
(iii) If the name/names appearing in the Birth Certificate
differs/differ from the name/names which the
candidate generally uses and under which the
candidate sits the examination, action should be
taken immediately in terms of Section 27 and 28
as the case may be, of the Births and Deaths
Registration Act, (Chapter 110) to get the name
in the entry of the registration of birth amended.
(iv) Certificate of Registration as a citizen of Sri Lanka
or original official letter of acceptance of claim to
citizenship by descent (where applicable).
(v) Original certificate of educational qualifications
or where the certificate has not been issued, other
official documents, e. g. an official letter issued
by a Registrar of a University to the effect that
the candidate has passed the degree of examination
; Sri Lanka General Certificate of Education
(Ordinary Level)/National Certificate of General
Education results sheet issued to the candidate by
the Department of Examinations, stating that he/
she has obtained a Credit Pass in English Language
at this examination.
(vi) Candidates are warned to have all the necessary
documents in readiness at the time of forwarding
the application. Any candidate who fails to
produce the necessary documents or who delays
in producing them when called for will be made
disqualified for appointment to this post.
11. Penalty for Furnishing False particulars.— If a candidate
is found to be ineligible according to the regulations for this
examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination.
If any of the Particulars furnished by a candidates is found to
be false to best of his/her knowledge or if he/she has willfully
suppressed any meterial fact, or if it is proved, at any time
during the period of his/her service that he/she was ineligible to
sit the examination, he/she will be liable to immediate dismissal
from the service. The candidature of those who do not strictly
conform to the requirements laid down in this notification will
be cancelled.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with at the discretion of the Public Service Commission.
This application should be forwarded under registered
post to -
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations,
Organizing and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
The Secretary,
Public Service Commission.
Public Service Commission,
No.46, Vauxhall Street,
Colombo 02.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1341
Specimen Application Form
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO POSTS OF ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT OF CUSTOMS, CLASS II OF SRI
LANKA CUSTOMS DEPARTMENT
(for Office use only)
Medium in which you sit this exmination :
Sinhala - 2 Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
01. Name of the Applicants :————.
1.1 Name with initials at the end (English capital
letters): : Ex SILV A, B. A.:————.
1.2 Name with initials (Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
1.3 Names denoted by initials (English capital letters)
:————.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Permanent residential address (English capital letters)
:————.
Address to which the admission card should be sent
:————.
03. Particulars of the National Identity Card :————.
(3.1) Number of the Identity Card :
(3.1) Date of issue :
04. Sex :———.
Male -  0
Female -  1
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
05. State whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka :
By descent - 1 By registration - 2
(Write the relevant number inside the box).
06. Ethnicity :————.
Sinhalese - 1
Ceylon Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
Burgher - 5
other - 6
(Write the relevant number inside the box.)
07. (a) Date of Birth :———.
      Year           Month                  Date
(b) Age on the closing date of application:
Years       Months Days
08. Physical requirements :———.
(i) Height:———.     feet :———. inches
(ii)Chest (when expanded) :———.inches
(only for male candidates).
09. Whether  a Credit pass has been obtained in English
Language? Yes/No.:
10. Exmination Fee (Receipt to be attached) :
District/ Divisional Date :—
Secretariat office
Receipt Number
(These particulars should be given compulsorily)
11. Have you ever been convicted of any offence in the Court
of Law (Yes/No.) :
If yes, give details :
12. Educational Qualifications :
Name of Degree Class of Year Subjects
University Degree
12. (i) Whether a Credit pass was obtained for English
Language at the examination Sri Lanka General
Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level) or National
Certificate of General Education ?:———.
Year of examination :———.
Index number :———.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1342
13. Applicant’s Declaration/Certification :———.
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by me in the
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification if detected before selection or discontinuance
after selection.
——————.
Signature of Applicant.
Date :—————.
14. Attestation of Applicant’s signature (Delete whichever
inapplicable) :
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATIONS  FOR  THE  OFFICERS  IN  SRI  LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION AND
HEALTH SERVICE, SRI LANKA – 2005
IT is hereby notified that the Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the above mentioned Service hopes to be held in Peradeniya
commence from February 2007.
2.  Time table will be prepared enabling the candidates to sit for Efficiency Bar Examination at the same time.
3.  Syllabus.— Syllabus and other Provisions by which the First and Second Efficiency Bars are governed are indicated in
respective service minutes. Accordingly, syllabus and other provisions for the first efficiency Bar of Sri Lanka Animal Production
and Health Service are indicated in annex "A" and syllabus and other provisions for the second efficiency Bar indicated in Annexed
"B".
Officers are allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examinations at one sitting or different occasions.
4. Subjects for which the officers in each service should appear in the Efficiency Bar are as follows :
Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service
1st Efficiency Bar 2nd Efficiency Bar
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subjects Duration
No. hours No. hours
01 Financial System 3 01 Part - I 3
02 Administration 3 02 Part - II 3
03 Dept. Regulation 2 03 Part III - Paper I 3
Paper I 04 Part III - Paper II 3
05 Part III - Paper III 3
04 Dept. Regulations 3 06 Part III - Paper IV 3
Paper II 07 Part III - Paper V 3
08 Part III - Paper VI 3
05 Special paper * 3 09 Part III - Paper VII 3
10 Part III - Paper VIII 3
11 Part III - Paper IX 3
12 Part III - Paper X 3
13 Part III - Paper XI 3
I certify that Mr/Mrs./Miss......................... who is
submitting this application is personally known to me/is an
employee of this Department/Board/Corporation and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on this....... day
of........ 2006. In the event of his/her selection for appointment
he/she can be released from this Department/Board/Corporation.
————.
Signature of Attestor.
Full name of Attestor:———.
Designation :———.
Address :———.
Date :———.
Note'— The attestation should be made by a person referred
to in paragraph 7 (v) of the Gazette Notification.
11-366

<!-- page 13 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1343
* Only for the Officers of Veterinary Research Officers.
Note.— Part I or Part II and two papers from Part III should be appered by the applicants for the 2nd efficiency bar
examination.
A candidate will be required to obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
5. The attention of Officers sitting these Efficiency Bar Examination is drawn to paragraph 5 of the Treasury Circular No.
701 dated 04.09.1966 which is reproduced below:–
"The medium for Departmental Examinations (including promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the
Language in which the officer sat the Competitive Examination to enter the Public Services or the Official Language in cases where
initial recruitment took place without Competitive Examination the medium for Promotional/Efficiency Bar Examination should be
the Language in which the officer qualified for entry in to the Public Service of the Official Language".
6. Arrangements will be made by the Commissioner General of Examinations to enable the candidates to answer the
following papers in Sinhala, Tamil and English. :
a. Finance
b. Administration
c. Departmental Regulation Paper I
d. Departmental Regulation Paper II
7. If candidate is later found to have sat in a medium in which he is not entitled to sit his candidature will be cancelled.
8. Candidates should submit their applications according to the sub-joined form on half sheet of foolscap paper, both
sides of the paper should be used. Candidates appearing for both examination should submit separate applications in respect of
each examinations.
9. The Examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examinations and candidates will be bound by the
rules and regulations prescribed by him for the conduct of Examination. The rules and regulations are published at the end of this
notice.
10. Applications must be sent through the Head of Department/Institute by registered Post to reach the Director General
Department of Animal Product & Health, Peradeniya on or before 15th December 2006. Any application received after the date
will be rejected.
11. If a candidate does not receive his admission card at least 7 days before the day of examination, he should communicate
without delay with the Commissioner General of Examinations, P . O. Box 1508, Battaramulla. (Telegraphic Address "Exams"
Colombo). Informing him that he has not received the admission from and giving following information :–
(1) Name of Examination :
(2) Full Name :
(3) Full Postal Address :
(4) Post Office, Registration Number and date of Dispatch.
Those in the vicinity are advised to communicate with the Commissioner General Examinations Branch "E" by
Messenger.
12. Subsequent correspondence by candidates who fail to comply with the requirements as laid down in paragraph II
above will not be entertained.
13. The attention of all candidates is invited to Circular No. 274 of 29.06.1971 issued by the Commissioner General of
examinations regarding the use of indentity cards. It is the responsibility of candidates to prove their identity at the Examination
Hall.
14. It has been decided to  charge fees from the candidates who appear for this examination on the following basis :–
a. Free of charge for the whole exam or part of the exam in 1st attempt.
b. Complete examination : Rs. 100.00

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1344
c. One subject : Rs. 50.00
This fees should be paid in revenue stamps duly cancelled by the candidate with his signature thereon.
Candidates who have already sat this examination are required to pay the relevant fees as indicated above.
S. J. P
ATHIRANA ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and
Infrastructure Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Infrastructure Development,
No. 45,
St. Michel Rd.,
Colombo 03.
Specimen Application Form
D
EPARTMENT  OF  EXAMINATIONS  – SRI  LANKA
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION
AND HEALTH SERVICE— (2005)
The envelop should bear the name of the examination on the top left hand corner.
01. (a) Last name with initials :————.
(b) Name denoted by initials :————.
02. Date of Birth
Year :————. Month :————. Date :————.
03. Designation :————.
Name of Department :————.
04. Postal Address (for dispatch of admission card) :————.
05. The date on which he was appointed to such service :————.
06. For which you are applying :————.
(Delete which ever is inapplicable)
(a) 1st efficiency bar examination (b)  2nd efficiency bar examination
07. Subjects offered (to be clearly stated) with the subject number as indicated in the first paragraph of the notification :
(i) Subject No. ———— Subject ————
(ii) Subject No. ———— Subject ————
(iii)Subject No. ———— Subject ————
(iv) Subject No. ———— Subject ————
(v) Subject No. ———— Subject ————
08. The Language medium in which Officer will sit the examination  :————.
09. State whether you have sat this examination previously in whole or in part :————.
If so state subject and give year and month :————.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1345
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit the examination the language medium indicated
tt para 08 above.
I also declare that the stamps affixed to this application are valid and unused before cancellation by me.
10. * Fees paid Rs. :————.
Cage for stamps
————.
Signature of Candidate.
Date :————.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General Department of Animal Production & Health
 Forwarded :
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear here in is eligible to sit the examination and that he is eligible sit in
to the examination in the language medium he had indicated in paragraph 08.
I also certified that the stamps has/have been duly affixed and cancelled by the candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
————.
Signature of Head of Department
and Designation.
Date :————.
(* May be deleted fee is payable)
Appendix "A"
(A) The 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production & Health Service will comprise
the following subjects :
1. Finance
2. Administration
3. Department Regulation - I
4. Department Regulation - II
1. Finance
The Examination in finance will be based on the following :
(a) The Financial Regulations of the Government of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter 10) ;
(b) The Estimates of the current year. e. g.:- Their arrangement the heads of revenue; The Finance and Appropriation
Acts;
(c) Ordinance relating to specific accounts dealt with in Kacheries.
Note.— A candidate will be required to obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
2. Administration
The Examination in administration will be based on the following :

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.11.17
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.11.2006
1346
(a) Office and Field Organization methods ;
(b) The Establishment Code (chapter I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX,
XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII)
Note .— A candidate will be required to obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
3 Department Regulations - I
The examination in Department Regulations will be based on the followings.
A two hours paper on the following subjects ;
Regulations framed under the contagious Diseases of Animal Ordinance, Animal Feed Act, Animal Diseases Act, Department
Orders and Circulars related to Veterinary Service.
Note.— A candidate will be required to obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
4 Department Regulations - II
A Three hours paper on the following subjects :
1. Dispatching of speciments, Laboratory methods of diagnosis including post - mortem examinations, field diagnostic
tests including pregnancy tests and vaccines and sera as prophylactic measure against contagious and infectious
disease of animals.
2. Techniques and practice of artificial inseminations, principles of breeding and rearing of calves, incubation, hatching
and rearing of chicks, animal nutrition food stuffed for Livestock - soured of supply and uses. Fodder cultivation,
different crops, pasture cultivation, preparation of silage and hay and Livestock Management.
3. Milk pruduction, pasturized milk bottling and transportation, milk hygine, bacteria of the milk, milk tests, seperation
of cream and processing of butter, ghee and curd.
4. Abatoar and killing of animals, identification of meat and meat tests.
Note.—A candidate will be required to obtain 40% of the total marks for a pass.
Appendix "B"
(a) The 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of the Sri Lanka Animal Production & Health Service will comprise the
following subjects :
Part I - Will have sections 2:1, 2:2, 4:1, 4:2, 5:2, 5:8, 6:5, 7:2:1, 8:2, 8:2:2, 8:2:3, 8:3:1, 9:2, 9:4, 9:6, 9:7 of the syllabus
available in "Director General of Department of AP&H, Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors" office of
Department of AP&H.
Part II - Will have section 1:1:1, 1:1:4, 1;2:1. 3:2, 3:1:1, 3:1:2, 3:2:1, 10:1:1, 10:1:2, 10:1:3, 10:1:4, 10:1:6, 10:2:1,10:2:8,
10:4:1 of the syllabus available Director General of Department of AP&H, Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors'
office of Department of AP & H.
Part III - Paper i - Epidemiology
Paper ii - Livestock Economics
Paper iii - Veterinary Public Health
Paper iv - Agriculture Extension
Paper v - Genetics and Breeding
Paper vi - Animal Physiology and reproduction
Paper vii - Housing and Management
Paper viii - Animal Nutrition
Paper ix - Pasture and Fodder Crops
Paper x - Applied Vet. Microbiology & Immunology
Paper xi - Applied Medicine, Pathology & Parasitology.
Details from Director General of Department of AP&H, Peradeniya and all Provincial Directors' office of Department of
AP&H.
11-478
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.