

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1274
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1270
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"071 – 2018 uehs ui 11 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'05'11
No. 2,071  –  fRiday ,  May 11, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 01st June, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th May, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1267-B 81280- 5,403 (05/2018)
Note.–  1990 Suwaseriya foundation Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of april 27, 2018.
 
N. B.–   (i) Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2,070 of 04.05.2018 was not published.
 (ii) the list of Jurors in Galle district Jurisdiction areas in year 2018 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
tamil and English languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1268
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1269
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1270
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT 
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths of the Registrar General's Department 
tRiNcoMaLEE diStRict
Notice of caNcellatioN 
tHE calling for applications for the following division which appeared in the notice of calling applications for the post of 
Registrar of Births, deaths and Marriage (tamil) in trincomalee district which was published by me in the Part i(iia) of the 
Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 2064 dated 23.03.2018 is cancelled hereby.
District Divisional Secretariat Division Post and Division for which applications are called
trincomalee Seruwila Post of Registrar of Births, deaths and Marriage (tamil) in 
Lingapuram division
 Neil De alwis,
 Registrar General. 
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, 
denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla,
25th april, 2018.
05–239
––––––––––––––––––
CALLING APPLICATIONS fOR ThE 
RECRuITmENT Of A TRANSPORT OffICER 
(DEPARTmENTAL) Of ThE COmmISSION TO 
INvESTIGATE ALLEGATIONS Of 
bRIbERy OR CORRuPTION - 2018
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified Sri Lankan 
citizens to select a suitable person for a 01 (one) vacancy in the 
Post of Transport Officer (departmental) of the Commission 
to investigate allegations of Bribery or corruption. duly 
filled applications prepared as per the specimen at the end 
of this notification should be sent under registered cover 
to reach "director General, commission to investigate 
allegations of Bribery or corruption, No. 36, Malalasekera 
Mawatha, colombo 07", on or before 11.06.2018. the top 
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application 
should be marked "Post of Transport Officer". 
(a) Closing date of application.– 11.06.2018.
Note.– complaints on losses or delays of any 
application or any related document in the post 
will not be considered. Losses incurred by failure 
to submit application as at due date should bear by 
the applicant. 
01. Method of recruitment .– Suitable applicant will be 
recruited upon a written examination according to the merit 
order of marks achieved by each candidate and the vacancies 
available. Number of vacancy is 01 (one). 
02. Terms of employment : 
* this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made to the Widows' and 
orphans'/Widowers' and orphans' contributory 
Pension Scheme. (Should be subjected to the 
policy decisions will be taken by government on 
pensions scheme in future.)
* Officers appointed to this post should be subjected 
to a probation period of three (03) years and the 
first efficiency bar should be passed during three 
(03) year probation period. (applicants selected 
from a permanent post in public service should 
be subjected for an acting period of one year). 
* in terms of Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 and 01/2014 and incidental circulars 
thereto the relevance proficiency in other official 
languages should be acquired within five (05) 
years. 
* this appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission, administrative 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1271
Regulations of democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka, Public financial Regulations, 
other regulations of the commission, circular 
regulations issued time to time by the government. 
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale of the post 
:  Rs. 30,840 -10x350 - 11x370 - 10x560 - 10x660 - Rs. 
50,610 (Salary code - Mt  3-2016) this salary scale is 
effective from 01.01.2020. the basic salary of Rs. 24,468 
and an adjustment allowance of Rs. 3,429 is payable with 
effect from 01.01.2018.
04. Qualifications.– Educational/Professional qualifica-
tions and experience : 
* Should have passed General Certificate of 
Education (ordinary Level) Examination in six 
(06) subjects in one sitting with credit passes for 
Sinhala/tamil/English Language, Mathematics 
and two other subjects. 
* Should have passed General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) Examination in 
all subject in Science stream (excluding general 
subjects) and achieved level of titration to follow 
a tertiary educational programme. 03 subject 
passes in old syllabus, would be sufficient. 
* Should have successfully completed a technical 
course relevant to the field of employment with 
course duration over 24 months and not less than 
level six (06) of National V ocational Qualification 
(N. V . Q.) accepted by tertiary and V ocational 
training commission. 
* Valid driving license for all types of Motor cars 
and Lorries and,
* 05 years working experience as a Motor 
Mechanic/Transport Officer of a reputed 
institution (02 years service of the total period as 
a Supervisor/Controlling Officer).
Age limit.– the applicant should not be less than 18 years 
and not more than 35 years as at 11.06.2018. (the maximum 
age limit is not applicable for the officers already in Public/
Provincial Public Service).
Physical Qualifications.– Should be physically and 
mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and to execute 
the duties of the post. 
Other Qualifications :
* Should be a Sri Lankan citizen,
* Have an excellent character, 
* The applicants should have fulfilled all qualifications 
to recruit to the post as at the due date mentioned by 
the Gazette notification.
* Priority will be given to the male applicants.
05. Method of Recruitment : 
 5.1 Written examination : the examination will be held 
by the National apprentice and industrial training 
authority as per the order of the director General 
of the commission to investigate allegations of 
Bribery or corruption. 
Subject Maximum 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Knowledge on motor 
mechanic and maintenance 
– Knowledge on motor 
mechanic 
– Vehicle maintenance 
– Knowledge on Motor 
Traffic Ordinance and 
Traffic Law 
– Knowledge to act 
on driving licenses, 
insurance and accidents 
– computer knowledge
100 40%
 5.2 General Interview  : Qualifications and physical 
fitness will be checked. 
* the appointing authority according to the merit 
order of marks achieved at the professional 
examination and the available vacancies shall 
decide the number of candidates to call for the 
interview as the case may be. 
06. the application should be prepared using 22-29cm. 
size. A4 sheets denoting 01-07 questions on first page. The 
details of the application should be inserted by own hand 
writings of the applicant. incomplete applications and the 
applications not in accordance with the specimen will be 
rejected without any notification. It is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application with the candidate. it is the 
responsibility of the candidate be verify that the perfected 
application complies with the specimen given in the 
notification, as otherwise the application may be rejected. 
the originals of the following should be provided to 
prove the identity when notified :
– Educational Certificates,
– Birth Certificate, 
– National identity card, 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1272
– Valid driving license to drive all types of Motor cars 
and Lories. 
– Certificates of experience. – (05 years working 
experience as a Motor Mechanic/Transport Officer 
of a reputed institution and 02 years service of the 
total period as a Supervisor/Controlling Officer)
– Two character certificates (one should be issued 
by the Grama Niladhari countersigned by the 
divisional Secretary).
N.B. :
 (a) copies of the educational and professional 
certificates should be attached with the application. 
 (b) applications of the candidates failed to produce 
documents when requested to do so will be not 
considered. 
applications of government employees should be 
sent through the Head of the department/institution. 
the signature of the applicant in the application should 
be attested by a Principal of a Government School, a 
commissioner for oaths, an attorney-at-Law, a Notary 
Public, a Commissioned Officers in Three Forces or a 
permanent officer in public service who draws an annual 
salary above Rs. 334,452.
07. this appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission, circular regulations issued 
time to time on public service, service minute and the 
amendments imposed. 
08. The final decision of filling or non-filling all vacancies 
or part thereof shall be reserved with the appointing authority. 
 
sarath JayamaNNe, P.c.
 director General. 
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or 
corruption, 
No. 36, Malalasekera Mawatha, 
colombo 07,
on this 26th day of april, 2018.
Specimen Application 
coMMiSSioN to iNVEStiGatE aLLEGatioNS of BRiBERy oR coRRuPtioN 
applicatioN for the post of traNsport officer (DepartmeNtal)
01.  Name with  initials : Mr/Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––––––––.
 Name in full : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––––––––.
02. address :
 Private address :–––––––––––––––.
 Official Address (If in Public Service) :–––––––––––––––.
03. date of birth : y ear :–––––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––––,  date :–––––––––––––––.
 age as at 11.06.2018 : years :–––––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––––,  days :–––––––––––––––.
04. National identity card :–––––––––––––––.
05. contact No. :–––––––––––––––.
 Mobile :–––––––––––––––. fixed :–––––––––––––––.
06. Ethnicity :–––––––––––––––.
07. Sex :–––––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
 G. c. E. (ordinary Level) :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
 G. c. E. (advanced Level) :
Subject Grade

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1273
 technical courses :
 institution :–––––––––––––––.
 Details of training certificate/Diploma Certificate :––––––.
 year of pass :–––––––––––––––.
 N. V . Q. Level :–––––––––––––––.
Professional Qualifications : 
 Professional experience as at 11.06.2018 : 
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
 Other Qualifications :
   1. –––––––––––––––
   2. –––––––––––––––
   3. –––––––––––––––
09. Have you ever been subjected to the dismiss from 
public service or vacation of post :–––––––––––––––.
10. Have you ever been punished by a court of Law for 
any offence ? :–––––––––––––––.
 if yes, furnish relevant information :––––––––––––––.
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect 
before selection, I am subject to be disqualified or dismissal 
from the service without any compensation if it is revealed 
after selection. 
   –––––––––––––,
   Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––––.
Attestation of Applicant's Signature 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................ of 
....................... who is submitting this application is 
personally known to me and that he/she placed his/her 
signature in my presence on this .......... day of ............. 2018.
   –––––––––––––,
   Signature of applicant. 
Name and designation :–––––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––––.
Official Frank :–––––––––––––––.
Note : the signature of the applicants in public service 
should be attested by the Head of the department or 
by an authorized officer. 
If the applicant already in public service : 
i hereby certify that the Mr./Mrs./Miss. ..................... 
serves in this department and he/she can/can't be released 
from his/her present post if he/she is selected. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Head of the department. 
date :–––––––––––––––;
Name :–––––––––––––––;
designation :–––––––––––––––;
department :–––––––––––––––;
05–324
REGISTRAR GENERAL'S DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages
aMENdMENt to tHE GAzeTTe NoticE of 
aPPLicatioN 
it is hereby amended the minimum age limit for the Post 
of Registrar of Births, deaths and Marriages of Registrar 
General's department related to all divisions, published in 
Gazette Notices of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka holding following Numbers and dates :
 No. of the Gazette Date of the Gazette
  2064 23.03.2018
  2065 29.03.2018
  2066 06.04.2018
02. the minimum age limit of the applicants shall be 
amended as "40 years" in No. 03 of aforesaid notice. 
03. further the closing date of aforesaid Gazette Notices 
will be extended to 11th June, 2018.
  
Neil De alwis, 
  Registrar General. 
Registrar General's department, 
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, Battaramulla, 
on the day of 25th april, 2018.
05–238
––––––––––––––––
amendment
mINISTRy Of AGRICuLTuRE
Department of Agrarian Development 
caLLiNG aPPLicatioN foR tHE PoSt of 
WatcHER aNd LaBouR iN GRadE iii uNdER 
tHE catEGoRy of PRiMaRy LEVEL uNSKiLLEd        
(PL 01-2006a) iN tHE dEPaRtMENt of aGRaRiaN 
dEVELoPMENt - 2018
tHE closing date of the application for the above posts 
mentioned notice published in the Gazette notification No. 
2066 and dated 06.04.2018 is extended to 25.05.2018.
02. No any changes in the other facts in the notification. 
  W. M. M. B. 
weerasekara, 
  commissioner General of agrarian development. 
department of agrarian development, 
No. 42, Sir Marcus fernando Mawatha, 
P. o. Box 537,
colombo 07,
10th May, 2018.
05–621

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1274
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of 
STENOGRAPhER/TyPIST (DEPARTmENTAL) 
Of ThE COmmISSION TO INvESTIGATE 
ALLEGATIONS Of bRIbERy OR 
CORRuPTION - 2018
HEREBY notified that the Open Competi tive Examination 
to recruit suitable candidates for 32 (thirty two) vacancies 
in the posts of Stenographer/t ypist (departmental) of 
the commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or 
corruption will be held during the month of august 2018 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Duly filled 
applications prepared as per the specimen at the end of this 
notification should be sent under registered cover to reach 
"commissioner General of Examinations, organization 
and foreign Examinations Branch, department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, P. o. Box 1503, colombo" on 
or before 11.06.2018. the left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application should indicate "Post of typist 
Sinhala/tamil/English medium or Post of Stenographer 
Sinhala/tamil/English medium".
(a) Closing date of application.- 11.06.2018.
Note : complaints with regard to losses or delays of 
any application or any related document in the post 
will not be considered. Losses incurred by failure to 
submit application on the due date must be borne by 
the applicant. 
01. Mode of recruitment .- Suitable applicants will be 
recruited upon a written and professional examination 
according to the order of marks on merit achieved by each 
candidate and the vacancies available. the vacancies are as 
follows :
 Stenographer (Sinhala)  - 04
 Stenographer (tamil)  - 02
 Stenographer (English)  - 04
 t ypist (Sinhala) - 14
 t ypist (tamil) - 04
 t ypist (English) - 04
 
 1.1 this examination will be conducted in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium. the applicant will 
select the medium for the examination and all 
examination papers should be answered in the 
same medium selected. the medium preferred in 
the application will not be allowed to change later. 
02. Terms of employment : 
* this post is permanent and pensionable. 
contributions should be made to the Widows' and 
orphans'/Widowers' and orphans' contributory 
Pension Scheme. (Should be subjected to the 
future policy decisions of the government on 
pensions scheme.)
* Officers appointed to this post should be subjected 
to a probation period of three (03) years and the 
first efficiency bar examination should be passed 
during three (03) years probation period. 
* The Second Efficiency Bar should be passed 
before lapse of three (03) years after promoting 
to Grade II, the third efficiency bar examination 
should be passed before lapse of five (05) years 
after promoting to Grade i. 
* in terms of Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 and 01/2014 and incidental circulars 
thereto the relevant proficiency in other official 
languages should be acquired within five (05) 
years. 
* this appointment is subject to the Procedural 
Rules of Public Service commission, 
administrative Regulations of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Public 
financial Regulations, other regulations of the 
commission to investigate allegations of bribery 
or corruption, circulars, regulations issued time 
to time by the government. 
03. Salary Scale.– Monthly salary scale of the post :         
Rs. 27,140 -10x300 - 11x350 - 10x495 - 10x660 -Rs. 45,540  
(Salary code - MN1-2016).
this salary scale is effective from 01.01.2020. the basic 
salary from 01.01.2018 is Rs. 21,532 and an adjustment 
allowance of Rs. 4,306 is payable.
04. Qualifications.– Educational/Professional qualification 
and experience : 
* Should possess six (06) passes with credit passes 
for two subjects including Sinhala/tamil/English 
Languages and Mathematics in one sitting at 
the General Certificate of Education (Ordinary 
Level) Examination. 
and
 at least a pass mark for one (01) subject (excluding 
the general subject) at the General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) Examination, 
* Should have successfully passed and possessed 
with a certificate of a course for Stenography/
typing/computer with the duration of not less 
than six (06) months approved by tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission or have a 
credit pass for typing and Stenography as a 
subject in the General Certificate of Education 
(ordinary Level). 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1275
* Should have working experience of six (06) months in a field relevant to the post. 
Age limit.– the applicant should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at 11.06.2018. (accordingly, 
the persons born on or before 11.06.2000 and on or after 11.06.1988 are eligible to apply to this post).
Physical Qualifications.– Should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the island and to execute the duties 
of the post. 
Other Qualifications :
* Should be a Sri Lankan citizen,
* Have an excellent character, 
* The applicants should have achieved all qualifications required to recruit to the post as at the due date mentioned in 
the Gazette notification,
* a police clearance report will be called on all selected applicants to examine the suitability of each person to serve in 
the commission. 
05. Method of Recruitment : 
 5.1 Written examination : Will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examination : 
Subjects Syllabus Time Maximum 
Marks
Minimum 
Marks to pass
General Knowledge 
and Essay Writing
* this paper consist of questions to evaluate 
general knowledge on contemporary local 
and global incidents (60 multiple choice 
question)
* Essay writing on a selected topic out of 
several topics given of contemporarily 
importance. (ability to present special 
thoughts, language skill, accuracy of 
grammar, spellings will be evaluated)
01 
hour
01 
hour
100 40%
 5.2 Professional test : Will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examination : 
Subjects Syllabus Maximum 
Marks
Minimum 
Marks to Pass
Stenography and computer 
typing (Sinhala/t amil/
English) (for the applicants 
of the post of Stenographer 
only)
a paragraph read continuously in a period of 05 
minutes should be taken into short-hand writing by 
80 words per minute and computer type-written by 
07 words per minute. 
100 40%
computer type writing 
(Sinhala/t amil/English) 
(for the applicants of the 
post of typist only)
a paragraph read continuously in a period of 05 
minutes should be computer type-written by 80 
words per minute
100 40%
 5.3 candidates who have achieved not less than 40% marks for written examination will be called for the professional 
examination. 
 5.4 General Interview : this interview will be held by an interview board appointed by the director General of the 
commission to Investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption, to examine the qualifications of each candidate 
according to the recruitment procedure and the Gazette notification and to examine physical competency as well. 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1276
* the appointing authority according to the order 
of marks on merit achieved at the professional 
examination and the available vacancies shall 
decide the number of candidates to call for the 
interview as the case may be. 
06. the application should be prepared using 22-29cm. 
size. a4 sheets denoting 01-07 headings on first page. The 
details of the application should be dully filled by own hand 
writing of the applicant. incomplete applications and the 
applications not in accordance with the specimen will be 
rejected without any notification. It is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application with the candidate. it is the 
responsibility of the candidate to verify that the perfected 
application complies with the specimen given in the 
notification, as otherwise the application may be rejected. 
 6.1  Identity of the candidate.- candidates must provide 
one of the following documents to the supervisor of 
the examination hall to prove the identity. 
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) a  valid passport. 
the candidates who passed written examination are 
bound to produce any of the following documents at the 
interview or any other requested time. 
 (i) Educational Certificates,
 (ii) Birth Certificate, 
 (iii) National identity card, 
 (iv) Certificates of experience,
 (v) Two character certificates (one should be issued 
by the Grama Niladhari countersigned by the 
divisional Secretary).
N.B. 
 (a) Post/Posts applied should be clearly indicated on 
application. 
 (b) copies of the educational and professional 
certificates should be attached with the application. 
 (c) applications of the candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will be not 
considered. 
07. examination fee. – the fee for the examination 
will be Rs. 750. this should be paid before closing date 
of applications only at any Post Office, Sub Post Office, 
to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination. the receipt obtained 
to the name of the applicant upon payment of examination 
fee should be firmly pasted on due place of the application. 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt for future 
requirements). the examination fee once paid will not be 
refunded under any circumstances. Money orders and 
stamps will not be accepted. 
08. Scheme of examination : 
 8.1 on the assumption that only the applicants who 
have achieved the qualifications prescribed in 
the Gazette Notification have applied for the 
examination, the commissioner General of 
Examination will issue admission cards to the 
applicants within the age limits specified in 
the notification and who have forwarded duly 
completed applications with the receipt having 
paid prescribed examination fee on or before 
final date. The Department of Examinations 
will publish a notice in newspapers immediately 
after issuing admission cards to the applicants. 
any applicant who has not received admission 
card within 02 or 03 days after publishing the 
notice in the newspaper should inquire from the 
organization of foreign Examinations Branch 
of the department of Examinations stated in the 
notification. It is advisable to inquire with the 
name of the examination applied, full name of 
the applica nt, National identity card number 
and the address correctly. applicants residing 
outside colombo should inquire by fax through 
the number in the notice with particular details 
and a fax number to deliver the admission card 
promptly. copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt relevant to payment of examination fee/
receipt of postal registration should be kept 
secured with the applicant to prove details when 
asked by the department of Examinations at such 
inquiry. 
  the signature of the appilcant in the application 
for the examination and admission card should 
be attested. an applicant applying for the 
examination through an institution should get the 
signature attested by the Head of the institution 
or an officer authorized by him and other 
applicants should get their signatures attested 
by a Principal/retired officer of a Government 
School, Grama Niladhari of respective division, 
a commissioner for oaths, an attorney-at-Law, a 
Notary Public, a Commissioned Officers in Three 
Forces, a permanent officer in public service 
who draws an annual salary above Rs. 334,452 
or the chief incumbent of a Buddhist Vihara 
or a Nayaka Buddhist Monk, the incumbent 
of a place of workshop of any other religion or 
a religious dignitary of standing of any other 

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1277
religion. candidates must sit for the examination 
hall assigned to him. Every candidate should 
get his admission card attested in advance and 
surrendered it to the supervisor of the hall on the 
first day he presents himself for the examination. 
candidates who fail to submit admission card are 
not permitted to sit for the examination. 
 8.2 The result list of qualified candidates as per the 
merit order of total marks achieved through 
written examination and professional examination 
will be handed over to the "director General, 
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery 
or corruption". all candidates sat for the written 
examination will be notified respective marks 
by post or by the website of the department of 
Examinations, www.results.exams.gov.lk
 8.3 issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
should not be considered as the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications required for the post. 
 8.4 candidates shall be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting examination. 
Breach of these rules by any candidate shall 
be liable to a punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
09. this appointment is subject to the Procedural Rules 
of Public Service commission, circular regulations issued 
from time to time on public service, service minute and the 
amendments imposed. 
10. The final decision of filling or non-filling all vacancies 
or part thereof shall be reserved by the appointing authority. 
11. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, 
tamil and English texts of this notice, the Sinhala text will 
prevail. 
 
sarath JayamaNNe, Pc
 director General. 
commission to investigate allegations of Bribery or 
corruption, 
No. 36, Malalasekera Mawatha, 
colombo 07,
on this 26th day april, 2018.
Specimen Application form 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR REcRuitMENt to tHE PoSt of StENoGRaPHER/tyPiSt 
(dEPaRtMENtaL) of tHE coMMiSSioN to iNVEStiGatE aLLEGatioNS of BRiBERy oR 
coRRuPtioN - 2018 
  Post/Posts applied
   1. Stenographer (Sinhala)
   2. Stenographer (tamil)
   3. Stenographer (English)
   4. typist (Sinhala)
   5. typist (tamil)
   6. typist (English)
Language medium preferred for written test :
 2.  Sinhala
 3.  tamil 
 4.  English 
01.  Name indicating last name first and initials of other names at the end :––––––––––––.
 (in English block capital letters)
 eg. : Nimal a. B. c. d.
02. Names denoted by initials (in English block capital) :––––––––––––.
03. full name (Sinhala/t amil) :––––––––––––.
04. (i) Permanent address in English capital letters (admission card will be sent to this address) :––––––––––––.
 (ii)  Official Address (If in public service) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1278
05. National identity card No. : 
06.  Sex : Male   - 0
    female  - 1
07. Ethnicity :                         (Sinhalese - 1, tamil - 2, indian tamil - 3,  Muslim - 4,  other –5)
08. date of birth : y ear                           Month       date 
 age as at 11.06.2018 : years                      Months                   days 
09. cotact No. :  Mobile :                                          
   fixed : 
10. Educational Qualifications :
 G. c. E. (ordinary Level) :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
 G. c. E. (advanced Level) :
Subject Grade
11. courses relevant to the post :
 institution :–––––––––––––.
 Details of practical certificate/Diploma Certificate :–––––––––––––.
 
 Professional Qualifications : 
 Professional experience as at 11.06.2018 :––––––––––.
 y ears :––––––––. Months :––––––––. days :–––––––.
 Other Qualifications :
 1. –––––––––––––––
 2. –––––––––––––––
 3. –––––––––––––––
12. Have you ever been subjected to dismissal from Public Service or vacation of post : yes/No :–––––––––––––––.
13. Have you ever been punished by a court of Law for any offence ? yes/No :–––––––––––––––.
 if yes, furnish relevant information :––––––––––––––.
14. details of the receipt received upon payment of examination fee : 
  (i) Name of the office to which the examination fee was paid :––––––––––––––.
  (ii) Receipt No. and date  :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1279
  (iii) amount paid :––––––––––––––.
Please affix firmly the receipt obtained on payment 
of examination fee so as to be unglued 
(Keeping a photocopy  of the receipt with you 
would be vital)
i do hereby state that the particulars given by me in 
the application are true and correct. i am aware that if any 
particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect 
before selection, I am subject to be disqualified or dimissed 
from the service without any compensation if it is revealed 
after selection. furthermore, i agree to abide by rules and 
regulations of the commissioner General of Examinations 
regarding the conducting of the examination. 
   –––––––––––––,
   Signature of applicant. 
Attestation of Applicant's Signature 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ who is 
submitting this application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his/her signature in my presence on this 
..................... day of ................. 2018. i also certify that he/
she has paid the due examination fee and has attached the 
paid receipt. 
   –––––––––––––,
   Signature. 
Name and designation :–––––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––––.
Official Frank :–––––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––––.
Note : the signature of the applicants in Public Service 
should be attested by the Head of the department or 
by an authorized officer. 
If the applicant already in Public Service : 
i hereby certify that the Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... 
serves in this department and he/she can/can't be released 
from his/her present post if he/she is selected. 
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of Head of the department. 
date :–––––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––––.
department :–––––––––––––––.
05–325
AuDITOR GENERAL’S DEPARTmENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment 
of Audit Examiners to Grade II of the Audit 
Examiners’ Service – 2018
a competitive examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations to select suitable 
candidates for the posts of audit Examiners Grade ii of 
the audit Examiners’ Service in terms of the Provisions 
in Paragraph 06(ii)(b) of the Minute of said service.  
applications are invited from the candidates possessing the 
required qualifications as stated in this notification. 
Date of examination.– the examination will be held by 
the commissioner General of Examinations in colombo and 
Jaffna in September 2018.  the auditor General reserves the 
right to postpone or cancel this examination. No change of 
city stated to sit for the examination will be allowed. 
01. Number of persons to be appointed and the effective 
date:
the effective date of appointments will be determined by 
the auditor General. the auditor General reserves the right 
to refrain from filling any or all of the vacancies.
02. Service Conditions :
 (i) the selected candidates will be appointed to 
Grade ii of the audit Examiners’ Service on the 
general conditions governing the appointments 
of the Public Service published at the beginning 
of the Paragraph (ii b) of Part i of the ordinary 
Gazette, conditions set out in the Minute of audit 
Examiners’ Service published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 380/61 dated 20th december 
1985 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and subjected to amendments made or to 
be made hereafter to the said Minute.
 (ii) this post is permanent and pensionable. in terms 
of Public administration circular No.21/2017, 
you shall be subjected to a policy decision 
which should be taken by the government in 
future on the pension scheme to which you are 
entitled. further, you shall make contributions 
to the Widows and orphans’ / Widowers and 
orphans Pension Scheme. you shall make your 
contributions in such manner determined from 
time to time by the Government. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1280
 (iii) the successful candidates will be appointed to 
this service on probation for a period of three 
years from the date of appointment.
 (iv) Confirmation at the end of their probationary 
period of successful candidates competing in this 
Examination will be inter-alia depend on :
 (a) Satisfactory work, attendance and conduct.
 (b) Passing of Efficiency Bar Examination 
before the end of probation period.
 (v) His/Her Service will be terminated if he/she 
fails to secure confirmation at the end of the 
probationary period.
 (vi) in terms of Public administration circular 
No.01/2014 dated 21st January 2014, 
proficiency of the other official language should 
be acquired within five (05) years from the date 
of appointment. 
 (vii) Selected officers should serve in any part of the 
island.
 (viii) this appointment will be subjected to the 
Procedural Rules of the Public Service 
commission, the Establishments code of the 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
Government financial Regulations, orders 
and Regulations that may be issued by the 
Government from time to time and the circulars, 
instructions and orders that may be issued by the 
auditor General’s department from time to time. 
03. Salary Scale.– the consolidated salary scale relating 
to Grade ii of the audit Examiners’ Service in terms of the 
Public administration circular No.03/2016 is, Rs.34,605-
10X660-11X755-15X930-Rs.63,460. (Efficiency Bar 
before Rs. 36,585). However, the salary will be given to you 
in accordance with the provisions in this circular as stated 
in schedule ii thereof.
04. Health and Discipline.– the candidate must satisfy 
the Auditor General that he/she is duly qualified in respect 
of health and an excellent moral character.  the candidate 
must be of sound constitution, possessed of good sight and 
physically qualified for service in any part of the Island.  
When a candidate who is already not in the Public Service/ 
Provincial Public Service is selected, he/she should appear 
for a medical test.
05. Qualifications : All candidates should :
 (a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 (b) be not less than 22 years and not more than 32 
years of age for the persons not in the Public 
Service/ Provincial Public Service as at 13
th June 
2018 and the applicants who are in the Public 
Service should not be more than 40 years of age. 
(accordingly, only the persons whose birthdays 
fall on or before 13.06.1996 and on or after  
13.06.1986 are eligible to apply. if in the Public 
Service, only the persons whose birthdays fall on 
or after 13.06.1978 are eligible to apply) 
 (c) have an excellent moral character and must be of 
sound constitution;
 (d) have obtained one of the following qualifications;
 (i) Should be a graduate of a recognized 
university or have obtained equivalent 
qualification ;
   Or
 (ii) Should have passed the Examination of 
Licentiate or intermediate of the institute of 
chartered accountants in Sri Lanka.
  Or 
 (iii) Should have passed the Higher National 
diploma in accountancy/commerce of 
technical college of Sri Lanka/Sri Lanka 
institute of advanced technological 
Education.
 (e) No member of clergy of any religion will be 
permitted to appear for this examination.
Note.- the candidates who compete for this 
examination should be able to produce certificates 
of their educational and professional qualifications, 
immediately at the request of the auditor General.  
applications submitted on pending results will not be 
entertained.
Note. - A candidate will be deemed to have qualified only 
if he / she has;
 (i) successfully completed in every respects the 
examination or examinations required to pass as 
at 13th June 2018 and;
 (ii) submitted at the interview, an official certificate 
or any official document on behalf of the said 
certificate or the qualifications that can be 
accepted by the auditor General.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1281
06. examination Fees.– the examination fee is Rs.600.  
This fee should be paid to any Post Office/ Sub-Post Office 
in the island on or before the closing date of applications 
with instructions that it should be credited to Revenue Head 
2003-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations 
and the receipt obtained in your name should be affixed 
to the application.  No payment whatsoever is required in 
addition to the examination fee. the examination fees paid 
will not be refunded fully or partly in any circumstances.   
(Keeping a photocopy of the cash receipt with you will be 
helpful). further, the stamps or money order will not be 
accepted for the examination fee.
07. Method of Application ;
 (a) the application should be prepared in accordance 
with the specimen form annexed to this notification, 
using both sides of the papers in a4 size as from 01 
to 04 on first page, 05 to 06 on second page, 07 
to 09 on third page and 10 to 12 on fourth page 
and should be filled by the candidate himself. 
Since the appli cations which are incomplete and 
not prepared in accordance with the specimen form 
shall be rejected without any notice, applicants 
should recheck whether the perfected application 
form complies with the specimen given in the 
examination notice and the application is perfected 
including all the particulars and the examination 
fee has been paid on due time and the particulars 
of the same have been included in the application 
and the receipt is attached. further, it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the perfected application. 
  (b) The application should be filled in the language 
in which the candidate eligible to sit for the 
examination (Refer Paragraph 11). the title of the 
examination appearing in the specimen should be 
indicated in English Language as well, on both 
Sinhala and tamil application forms.
 (c) application for the open competitive 
Examination must be sent by registered post to 
reach the commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examin ations Sri Lanka, P.o. Box 
1503, colombo on or before 13
th June 2018.
  the top left hand corner of the envelop containing 
the application should bear clearly the words 
“Open Competitive examination for Recruitment 
to the Posts of Audit examiners Grade II – 2018”.  
No application received after the closing date will 
be accepted.  candidates who are in the Public 
Service / Provincial Public Service should send 
their applications through their Heads of the 
department/institution.
 (d) applications which are not completed in every 
respect will be rejected.  No allegation that an 
application has been lost or delayed in the post will 
be considered.  further the issue of an admission 
card to a candidate does not necessarily means that 
he or she has the requisite qualification to sit for 
the examination.  Such admissions are subjected to 
subsequent inquiries. 
 (e) applications will not be acknowledged. a 
notification will be published in newspapers by the 
department of Examinations Sri Lanka as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 
3 days of such advertisement, steps should be taken 
to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement.  It would 
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the 
time of calling the department of Examinations i.e 
certified photocopies of the application form and 
the cash receipt kept at your possession, receipt 
of registration, indicating your full name, address, 
Nic No. and the name of Examination accurately 
and in case of applicants outside colombo, letter 
of request furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent. 
 (f) the signature of the applicant should be attested by 
an authorized person.  applicants who are already 
in Public Service or Provincial Public Service 
should get their signatures attested by their Heads 
of Departments or by an officer authorized to do 
so on his behalf, other applicants should get their 
signatures attested by anyone of the following; i.e. 
a Justice of Peace, a commissioner of oaths, an 
attorney at Law, a Notary Public, a Principal of 
a Government school, a public officer drawing a 
monthly consolidated salary of Rs.240,360 or over, 
a chief incumbent or Higher Priest of a Buddhist 
temple, a member of the clergy of any other 
religion who is in charge of a place of worship or 
holding a position of importance in such places of 
worship, a Commissioned Officer in three Armed 
Forces, an officer holding a Gazette Post in the 
Police Service.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1282
08. Admission to the examination:
 (a) With the presumption that only the candidates 
fulfilling qualifications stipulated in the Gazette 
notification have applied for the Examination, 
admissions shall be issued by the commissioner 
General of Examinations to the candidates within 
the age limit and who have submitted duly perfected 
applications along with the receipt issued after 
paying the Examination fee on or before the closing 
date of applications.  a candidate must sit for the 
examination at the examination hall assigned to 
him.  Every candidate should submit the admission 
card with the candidate’s authenticated signature to 
the supervisor on the first day presenting himself 
for the examination. a candidate who fails to 
produce his admission card will not be permitted to 
sit for the examination.
 (b) a  set of rules to be followed by all candidates is 
published in this Gazette.
 (c) the issue of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that he or she has the requisite 
qualification to sit for the examination or for a post.
 (d) all candidates are bound to abide by the rules 
laid down by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.  a candidate who violates any of 
those rules is liable to punishment at the discretion 
of the commissioner General of Examinations.
09. Identification of the Candidates.– a candidate will 
be required to prove his identity at the examination to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he or she 
appears.  for this purpose, only the following documents 
will be accepted.
 (a) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (b) a  valid passport issued by the department of 
immigration and Emigration 
10. Furnishing False Information.– if a candidate is 
found to be ineligible, his or her candidature is liable 
to be cancelled at any stage prior to, during or after the 
examination.  
11. Method of examination:
 (a) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil 
and English Languages.
 (b) a  candidate should sit for the examination in 
the language in which he passed the qualifying 
examination or in the official language.
 (c) a  candidate who has passed subjects at the 
qualifying examination in two or more languages 
should sit for the examination in the language in 
which he passed the majority of subjects at such 
examination or in the official language.
 (d) a  candidate with a Special degree who has 
passed the core-subject in one language and the 
subsidiary subject in another language should 
sit for the examination in which he passed the 
principal subject or in the official language. 
a candidate will not be permitted to change 
the medium of the examination given in his 
application.
Note:
 (i) the term “Qualifying Examination” in (b) and (c) 
above refer to any of the examinations referred to 
in paragraph 05.
 (ii) a candidate must sit for all the papers of 
examination in one and the same language.
12. Method of Testing:
 (a) A written test on the following five subjects and a 
viva voce test.
 Subject  Duration Total
  (Hours) Marks
 1. accounting - 03   150  
 
 2. cost accounting - 02  100 
  
 3. auditing - 03  150 
  
 4. Business Mathematics and - 02  100
  Statistics  
 5. Environment – 
  Part 1 – Economics - 01  50 
  Part 2 – General commercial - 01  50 
     knowledge  
  Part 3 – commercial Law - 01  50 
the syllabus of the written test is shown in appendix ‘a’.
 (b) candidates who obtain a minimum of 40 percent of 
the marks in each paper and an average of not less 
than 50 percent of the aggregate marks only will 
be eligible to be called up for the interview and the 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1283
interview will be held on a date intimated after the 
date of written test.  The interview will be confined 
to scrutinizing the qualifications, certificates and 
service records of candidates and marks will not 
be given for the interview.  the interview board is 
appointed by the auditor General. 
(13) Method of Selection for Appointment.– those who 
have scored the highest marks totalling the marks for 05 
papers in the written test will be selected.  in the event of 
more than one candidate have scored similar marks, the final 
decision for selection will be made by the auditor General. 
(14) Results sheet including the names of qualified 
candidates as per Paragraph 12 (b) will be posted to the 
auditor General and subsequently the results will be 
informed by post personally to all candidates or made 
available in www.result.exams.gov.lk of the official 
webpage of the department. 
(15) The decision of the Auditor General will be final 
regarding issues on matters not covered by the above 
regulations.
(16) in the event of any inconsistency between the 
notice published in Sinhala, tamil and English languages, 
the notice published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
 H. M. 
gamiNi wiJesiNghe, 
 auditor General.
auditor General’s department,
No.306/72,
Polduwa Road,
Battaramulla,
on 27th april, 2018.
Appendix “A”
Syllabus of the Written Test –
 (i) accounting – one paper of  three hours duration on
 * accounting theory – a general understanding 
of basic concepts and principles, methods 
of assets valuation, theory of double 
entry, classification of costs, classification 
of information in balance sheets and 
manufacturing, trading and profit and loss 
accounts.
 
 * accounting Systems – understanding the 
concept of control based on the need to control 
changes in resources used in an accounting 
entity: need for comparison with standards; 
analysis of business transactions familiarity 
with procedures governing basis management 
functions such as purchasing, selling, receipt 
& payment of moneys, inventory control etc; 
familiarity with different designs of records, 
day books, ledgers, control accounts, etc.
 * accounting practice problems including the 
preparation of balance sheet, manufacturing, 
trading and profit and loss accounts, 
reconciliation statements, control accounts 
etc; accounting and statistical ratios.
         
 (150 marks)
 (ii) Cost Accounting – One paper of two hours duration 
on
 * Principles of costing, types of costing, purchase and 
stores procedure, materials, pricing of materials, 
pricing of issue of materials, wages, overheads, 
fixed and variable expenses, direct and indirect 
expenses, budgetary control, standard costing, 
variations, marginal costing, contract costing, 
process costing, job costing, transport costing, 
output costing.
         
 (100 marks)
 (iii) auditing – one paper of three hours duration on
 * auditing concepts and theory – Need for audit; 
accountability as a base for audit; scope of audit, 
classes of audit; timing of audit, qualifications of 
auditors; powers; authority for audit, pre-audit; 
internal check, internal control; in-depth audit, 
internal audit, the need for standards;  types of 
evidence for audit, techniques.
 * auditing systems and procedures – familiarity with 
audit programmes covering the main balance sheet, 
manufacturing, trading and profit and loss account 
items, land, buildings, fixed assets, inventories, 
money assets, sales, purchases, receipts, payments, 
etc.
 * auditing problems – Simple problems to test 
powers of observations, ability to detect errors and 
unusual situations.
 * functions of the auditor General
         
 (150 marks)

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1284
 (iv) Business Mathematics and Statistics – One paper 
of two hours duration on elements of Business 
Mathematics and Statistics
         
 (100 marks)
 Mathematics –
 * Equations – Linear and quadratic equations 
including graphical solutions.
 * Series – arithmetic and Geometric Simple and 
compound interest including discounting
 * Elementary probability theory including 
permutations and combinations, use of 
mathematical table
Statistics –
 * collection, presentation and interpretation of data
 * analysis of frequency distributions; averages and 
dispersion; standard deviation; frequency curves
 * Probability, distribution and its application
 * Sampling and significance concept of sample 
distributions, standard error, methods of sampling, 
tests of significance.
 * t ime Series – components of a time series, trends, 
- seasonal, cyclical and irregular
 * Graphic communication, statistical graphic charts.
 (v) environment – One paper of three hours duration 
on :
 * Elements of Economics, Law and General 
commercial Knowledge.
         
 (150 marks)
economics :
 * Nature and significance of the study of economics, 
the price system, demand and supply, cost and 
revenue, maximization of profits, factors of 
production; competition & monopoly.
 * the characteristics of the economy of Sri Lanka; 
national income; gross national product, balance 
of payments; economic problems such as inflation, 
recession, fixed and floating exchange rates, 
devaluation.
 * Money and banking – Nature, forms and functions 
of money; value of money; general levels of 
prices; functions of the central Bank of Sri Lanka, 
commercial Banks, credit and Savings institutions.
Law :
 * an outline of the history of different systems of 
law in Sri Lanka and in general their applicability; 
organization and functions of courts, labour 
tribunals, industrial courts; functions of judges 
and other important legal officers engaged in the 
administration of justice in Sri Lanka.
 * Nature of contract; natural and legal person; 
agency; doctrine of ultra vires.
General Commercial Knowledge :
 * Office organization including systems and 
procedures, filing and indexing, office appliances, 
organization of meetings; writing of minutes, 
reports.
 * organization structure; organization chart, line 
staff relationship, centralization, decentralization, 
business units including sole trader, partnership, 
joint stock companies, co-operatives, public 
corporations.
 * Principles and classes of insurance; Sri Lanka 
Export credit insurance corporation.
 * carriage of goods by sea, land and air; freight; 
demurrage
 * Negotiable instruments; meaning of negotiability; 
cheques; bills of exchange; endorsements; 
crossings; acceptance; dishonour.
 * Role of co-operatives in Sri Lanka.
 * Principles of investments; stock exchange in Sri 
Lanka.
 * Sale of goods including contract of sale, the 
passing of ownership of the property in the goods, 
conditions and warranties, hire purchases, purchase 
on installment basis, international trade including 
procedure, documents, methods of export, import, 
methods and terms of payment, customs and excise 
duties.
 * Development finance including the functions of 
the National development Bank, development 
finance corporation, World Bank, international 
Monetary fund.     
 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1285
index No.
          (For office use only)  
 
SPEciMEN foRM of aPPLicatioN
opeN competitive examiNatioN for recruitmeNt of auDit examiNers to graDe ii of the 
auDit examiNers’ service – 2018
(Application form to be prepared in two A4 size papers as No. 01-04 in first page, No. 05-06 in second page, No. 
07 to 09 in third page and remainder in fourth page) 
 
town and town No.in which you intend to sit the examination:        
                             t own          t own Number 
 coLoMBo –   1   
 JaffNa      --   2             
 (indicate the town in English block capitals and town Number in the cage)
Language Medium of Examination:                                  
 Sinhala  - 2 
 t amil    - 3  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 English  - 4    
 (Language medium will not be allowed to change subsequently)
01. 1.1  full Name: (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (example: HERatH MudiyaNSELaGE SaMaN KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2  Name with initial indicating the initial after last name:(in English blockcapitals) :–––––––––––––.
  (example: GuNa WaRdHaNa, H.M.S.K)
 
 1.3  full Name: (in Sinhala/tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02.  address:
 2.1 Permanent address: (which admission card to be posted) (in English block capitals) ………….……………
 2.2  Permanent address: (in Sinhala/tamil)……………………………………
 2.3  Official Address: (in English block capitals) ……………………………..…
  (An officer in the Public Service / Provincial Public Service should write his/ her official address.) 
03. 3.1 Sex (female - 1        Male – 0)
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)      
 3.2 National identity card No.:
 3.3 civil Status (Married -2      Single -1)
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)    
 3.4 date of Birth :  year  Month date
 3.5 age as at 13.06.2018:  years   Months  days
 3.6 Mobile Phone No. : 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1286
04.  Race :    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)  
  Sinhala -1, tamil -2, indian tamil -3, Muslim -4, other -5
05. (i) Qualifications you have obtained to sit for this examination :
Qualifications 
obtained
Date of obtaining 
qualification
Subjects Date of Issuing 
results
Institution from which the 
qualification was obtained
 (ii) Subjects passed at the G.c.E. (o/L) Examination : 
  (a) year of Examination……………….   (b) index Number…………………
Subjects Pass obtained
06.  Extra Educational and Professional qualifications:
07. Names and addresses of two referees nominated by the candidate to certify his/ her character and capacity :
 (i)
 (ii)
08.  Candidates who sit for this Examination while serving in the Public / Provincial Public Service should fill the following:
 (i) the Service /departmental Grade you belong to :
 (ii) Date of confirmation in the Service / Departmental Grade:
  y ear   Month  date
  
09.  The cash receipt should be affixed on the application firmly :
 (i) Number of the Receipt: ………………. (ii) Place of Payment:………..
 (iii) date of Payment  : …………………..    (iv) amount Paid (Rupees)…….. 
  (Keeping a photocopy of the cash receipt with you would be helpful)
10.  Certificate by Candidate :
i declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief the information given here is true and that i have attached the 
receipt bearing No. ………………………. dated ………………….  being payment of Examination fees.  i also agree to be 
bound by the rules governing Examinations and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature prior or during or 
after the examination, if it is found that, i am ineligible according to the regulations of this Examination.
  ––––––––––––––––,  
 Signature of candidate.
date :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1287
11.  attestation : (Refer Paragraph 07(f) of the Gazette notification)
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………… who forward this application is known to me personally 
and placed his/her signature in my presence on ……………… 2018.
      
 –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature and Seal of the attester.
date :–––––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
12.  Certificate of the Head of the Institution :
(for candidates competing in the open competitive examination and who are already in Public Service/ Provincial 
Public Service)
I hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss …………………… is serving in this office from …………………….. 
and his/ her work, attendance and conduct is satisfactory and i personally checked all the information furnished in cages 01 
to 08 above with the records available in this office and found correct and he/ she could be / not be released from the present 
post, if selected for this  appointment and he / she signed in my presence on ………………..  2018.
    
 ––––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and Seal of the Head of the
 Institution or the Authorized Officer.
date :–––––––––––––.
full Name of the attester :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
05–329
–––––––––––––––––––––
LImITED COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION 
fOR RECRuITmENT TO GRADE II Of 
CLASS 2 Of SRI LANkA INfORmATION AND 
COmmuNICATION TEChNOLOGy 
SERvICE - 2018
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from qualified citizens 
of Sri Lanka for the limited competitive examination for 
recruitment to the posts in Grade ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service, which 
will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations 
in colombo in the month of august 2018.
2.0  Officers who satisfy the prescribed qualifications 
shall be selected on merit for appointment to the posts 
in Grade ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology Service on the results of a 
written examination to be conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examination. this examination shall be held 
only in colombo. 
3.0 Number of vacancies expected to be filled is 44. 
Effective date of appointments shall be determined by 
the appointing authority. further, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to refrain from filling any or all of the 
vacancies. 
4.0 Salary.- in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 (MN-06-2016) dated 25.02.2016, monthly 
salary scale entitled to Grade 2-ii and 2-i of Sri Lanka 
information and comunication technology Service is                
Rs. 36,585-10x660 - 11x755 -15x930 - Rs. 65,440.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1288
Note.- you shall be entitled to the said salary from 
01.01.2020. until such time salary shall be paid in 
terms of the provisions of Schedule ii of the above 
circular. 
5.0 this post is permanent and pensionable. 
6.0 Qualifications.- Following qualifications should 
have been satisfied to be appointed to the posts in Grade 
ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and communication 
technology Service :
 (a) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (b)  Shall have an excellent character, 
 (c) Physical Fitness.- all the candidates shall have 
the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part 
of Sri Lanka and to perform the duties of the post,
 (d) experience : 
 (i) Shall be an officer in Grade I of Class 3 of 
Sri Lanka information and communication 
technology Service and shall have completed 
an active and satisfactory service period in 
the immediately preceding five (05) years ; 
  or
 (i) Shall be an officer in Grade ii of class 3 with 
an active and satisfactory service period in 
the immediately preceding five (05) years ;
  and 
 (ii) Shall have satisfied the educational 
qualifications mentioned in 6.1 of this 
notification. 
 (e) In addition to the above qualifications, the officer 
shall have been confirmed in service as at the 
closing date of applications. 
6.1  Educational Qualifications :
 01. Shall have obtained a degree in computer 
Science/information technology from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the university 
Grants commission ; 
  or
02. (i) Shall have obtained a degree with 
computer Science/information technology 
as a major subject from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the university 
Grant commission (at least 1/3 of 
the degree should be comprised 
of computer Science/information 
technology) ;
  and
 (ii) Shall have obtained a post graduate 
diploma in computer Science/
information technology from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission ; 
  or
03. (i) Shall have obtained a degree from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission ; 
  and 
 (ii) Shall have obtained a post graduate 
degree in computer Science/
information technology from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission ; 
  or
04. Shall have obtained the certificate of NVQ 
which is equivalent to level seven (7) or 
above NVQ certificate on Information 
technology recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission. 
Note : (1) it is compulsory for every applicant to have 
satisfied all the relevant qualifications on or before 
the closing date of applications.
7.0 Scheme of the examination and syllabus.- the 
examination will consist of two papers. this examination 
will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English medium. 
candidates will not be allowed to change the language 
medium applied once it is selected. 
Question Paper Duration Total 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
1. aptitude 1 hour 100 40
2. case Study on information 
and communication 
technology
2 hours 100 40

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1289
 1. Aptitude test :
  this paper shall consist of questions to test 
the candidate's ability on statistics and critical 
reasoning. the question paper shall consist 
of fifty (50) questions of multiple choice and 
short answers and all the questions should be 
answered.
 2. Case Study on Information and Communication 
Technology : 
  it is expected to measure the creative thinking 
and the ability for solving problems of the 
candidates giving a case/cases combining one 
or several problems in relation to information 
and Communication Technology field of the 
public service in association with the practice 
of Public Service relevant to Establishments 
code, Procedural Rules of Public Service 
commission and financial Regulations. this 
paper will consist of structured and essay 
type questions. all the questions should be 
answered. 
Note.- this question paper has been designed to 
measure competency and skills of the candidate 
for the duties of the service. Even though this is 
a competitive examination, a candidate is required 
to obtain at least 40% of marks allocated for each 
subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of the total 
marks. Marks shall be deducted in every answer 
sheet for illegible handwriting and spelling 
mistakes. appointments shall be made strictly on 
the order of the marks scored in order to fill the 
number of vacancies allocated for the competitive 
examination. 
8.0 Penalty for furnishing false information.– the 
candidates should be very careful to include the correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any candidate 
is not eligile according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. further, if it 
is found that any information furnished by a candidate is 
false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the public 
service. 
9.0 examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. 
This fee should be paid in cash to any post/sub post office 
to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the 
commissioner General of Examination on or before the 
closing date of applications. the receipt obtained thus 
should be pasted in relevant cage of the application form so 
as not to be detached. (a  photo copy of the receipt should 
be kept for further reference). under no circumstance the 
examination fee shall be refunded and money orders and 
stamps are not accepted. 
10.0 (i) Applications .– applications should be prepared 
in the following manner using papers of size a4 (21x29cm).
 (a) Paragraphs from No. 1 to 3 should appear on 
the first side of the page. 
 (b) Paragraphs from No. 4 onwards should appear 
on the other pages and the application should 
be filled int he language medium in which the 
candidate appears for the examination. 
 (c) the title of the examination appearing in 
the specimen should be indicated in English 
langauge as well, on both Sinhala and tamil 
application forms. 
  applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form shall be rejected without any notice. 
applications of those who haven't paid 
examination fee on or before due date will also 
be rejected. candidates should be responsible 
for any loss incurred by them due to incomplete 
applications. it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the completed application form 
and it is the responsibility of the candidate to 
make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/herself complies with the specimen 
given in the examination notice. otherwise, 
the application could be rejected. 
11.0 on the  assumption that only those who possess the 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have 
sent aplications. the commissioner General of Examinations 
shall issue admission cards to all candidates who have paid 
the relevant fees, whose complete applications have been 
received on or before the closing date. issuance of an 
admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that 
the candidate has satisfied all the qualifications required for 
this post. if it is found at the interview that the applicant does 
not possess the required qualifications as per the Gazette 
Notification, his or her candidature shall be cancelled. 
 11.1 the result sheet issued on the merit determined 
on the aggregate marks of the candidates who 
have become eligible as per Para. 7.0 and Note 
of this notification shall be sent to the Director 
General of combined Services, Ministry of 
Public administration and Management. Results 
shall be issued personally to all the candidates 
who have sat for the examination or published in 
the website of the department of Examinations 
www.results exams.gov.lk.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1290
12. the words "Limited competitive Examination for 
recruitment to the Posts in Grade ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service - 
2018" should be written on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
13. Post and service station of the applicants at the time 
of applying for the examination shall be applicable for every 
matter related to the examination and no consideration 
shall be paid for any change that occurs after sending the 
applications. 
14. applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address on or before 
11th of June 2018 :
commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, 
P. o. Box 1503,
colombo.
15. Sitting the examination.- A notification shall be 
published in newspapers by the department of Examinations 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
department of examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. Name of the examination, full name of the 
applicant, address and national identity card number should 
be mentioned accurately when making such inquiry. in case 
of applicants outside colombo, it would be advisable to 
send a letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent, to the fax number mentioned 
in the notification and further to keep the following in hand 
at the time of calling the department of Examinations : i. e. 
copy of the application form and the receipt kept at your 
possession relevant to payment of examination fee, receipt 
of registration. 
16. candidates should furnish one of the following 
documents to the Supervisor of the examination hall to 
prove their identity :
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a valid Passport.
17. Heads of departments should grant duty leave for the 
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the 
commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to 
sit for the examination. No travel expenses shall be paid.
18. issuance of an admission card to a candidate does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has satisfied 
the qualifications required for sitting the examination. 
candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination on 
conducting the examination and they shall be liable to be 
subjected to any punishment imposed by commissioner 
General of Examination for violation of these rules and 
regulations. 
19. any matter not referred to herein shall be decided 
by director General of combined Services. all candidates 
are bound to comply with the general examination rules 
published in this Gazette. 
20. in case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification 
shall prevail. 
 K. V . P. M. J. Gamage, 
 director General of combined Services, 
 Ministry of Public administration and 
 Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
27th of april, 2018.
Specimen Application form 
LiMitEd coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR 
REcRuitMENt to GRadE ii of cLaSS 2 of SRi 
LaNKa iNfoRMatioN aNd coMMuNicatioN 
tEcHNoLoGy SERVicE - 2018
Medium of Examination : (For office use only)
Sinhala - 2
tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name, with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals) 
  example : GuNaWaRdHaNa, M. G. B. S. K. 
 1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals)  :–––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil)  :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1291
2.0 Service Station and address :
 2.1 Name and address of the office/department/
institution : (in English block capitals)  :––––––––.
 2.2 Name and address of the office/department/
institution  :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 address to which admission card should be sent  
:–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Gender : Male - 0    
  female - 1
    (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
 3.2 date of Birth : 
  y ear  Month date
 3.3 National identity card No. : 
 3.4 telephone Number :
4.0 Particulars of Service :
 4.1 Name of the institution where you are serving at 
present :–––––––––––.
 4.2 Ministry or department to which the institution 
belongs :–––––––––––.
 4.3 designation of the present post :–––––––––––.
 4.4 date of appointment to the present post :––––––––.
 4.5 Whether the present post is permanent or temporary 
:–––––––––––.
 4.6 Whether you have been confirmed in the present 
post :–––––––––––.
 4.7 Reference number and date of the letter issued 
confirming you in the present post :–––––––––––.
 4.8 (a)  Salary drawn by you at present :––––––––––.
  (b)  Salary scale (Salary code as per the Public 
administration circular No. 06/2006(iV) 
dated 24.08.2007) :–––––––––––.
 4.9 If you are an officer absorbed into the Combined 
Service, mention the date of absorption :––––––––.
 4.10 Whether the present post is pensionable :––––––––.
 4.11 Period of service in the present post, as at the closing 
date of applications :–––––––––––.
5.0 details of the receipt of payment of examination fee : 
 (i) Post/sub post office to which the examination fee 
was paid :–––––––––––.
 (ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix the receipt here so as not to be detached.
(it is advisable to keep a copy of the receipt)
i declare that information given by me in this form is 
accurate. i am aware that if any information furnished 
herein is found to be false or inaccurate i am liable to 
disqualification before appointment and to dismissal from 
service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. 
further, i agree to be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of examinations 
on conducting the examination and the decisions made on 
issuance of results. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
 (Signature should be placed in the 
 presence of Head of the department)
date :–––––––––––.
Note.- the applicant should place his/her signature in the 
presence of the respective Head of the department 
or an officer authorized for the purpose. 
Attestation of the applicant's signature :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ who is 
serving in my office and is known to me personally, placed 
his/her signature in my presence on .....................
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature and the official stamp of 
 the Officer attesting the signature.
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
Certification of the Head of the Department, 
i hereby certify that, 
 1. the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. is 
serving in this department, 
 2. He/she is holding a permanent post in the combined 
Service which belongs to the Public Service, 
 3. He/she has been confirmed in a permanent post as 
at .................

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1292
 4. A letter has been issued confirming him/her in a 
permanent post,
 5. He/she has completed an active service period 
of 05 years immediately preceding to the closing 
date of application (as prescribed by 6(d) of the 
notification),
 6. He/she has completed a satisfactory service period 
of at least 05 years as at ................. (as prescribed 
by 6(d) of the notification),
 7. He/she has earned the salary increments as at the 
due date within the immediately preceding five 
years, to the closing date of application, 
 8. He/she is remaining in the due class and grade 
relevant to the post which is relevant for applying 
for this examination, 
 9. He/she will be released from his/her present post, 
if selected for the position on the results of this 
examination, 
 10. He/she has paid Rs. 500 as the examination fee and 
has affixed the receipt in the application form,
 11. Particulars given in his/her application have been 
verified by way of comparing them with the 
documents available in this department and that 
he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per 
the regulations stipulated in the notification on this 
examination. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the department. 
Name :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––.
Note :
 1. This certification should strictly be signed by the 
Head of the Department or a staff officer duly 
authorized for the purpose. The officer who makes 
the certification should be satisfied himself that the 
particulars included in the certification are accurate 
each and every way. 
 2. If there are applicants who have not satisfied all 
the requirements for eligibility, the applications 
of such applicants should not be referred to the 
commissioner General of Examinations. 
05-354
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR 
RECRuITmENT TO GRADE II Of CLASS 
2 Of SRI LANkA INfORmATION AND 
COmmuNICATION TEChNOLOGy 
SERvICE - 2018
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified citizens 
of Sri Lanka for the open competitive examination for 
recruitment to the posts in Grade ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service, which 
will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations 
in colombo in the month of August 2018.
2.0 Candidates who satisfy the prescribed qualifications 
will be selected on merit for appointment to the posts 
in Grade ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and 
communication technology Service on the results of a 
written examination to be conducted by the commissioner 
General of Examination. 
3.0 Number of vacancies expected to be filled is 102. 
Effective date of appointments will be determined by the 
appointing authority. further, the appointing authority 
reserves the right to refrain from filling any or all of the 
vacancies. 
4.0 three percent (3%) of the number of vacancies 
filled by this examination will be reserved for persons with 
disabilities. only 3% of the persons with disabilities who 
secure highest marks in the examination and qualify will 
be selected for appointments. the minimum level of marks 
candidates should score to be selected for appointment is 
50%. a candidate selected for an appointment will be referred 
to a Special Medical Board and, by a report obtained from a 
medical specialist; he/she should establi sh the disablement 
and the fact that, it does not hinder performance of duties of 
the respective post. 
5.0 Salary.- in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016 (MN-06-2016) dated 25.02.2016, monthly 
salary scale entitled to Grade 2-ii and 2-i of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service is           
Rs. 36,585-10x660 - 11x755 -15x930 - Rs. 65,440.
Note.- you will be entitled to the said salary from 
01.01.2020. until such time salary will be paid in 
terms of the provisions of Schedule ii of the above 
circular. 
6.0 this post is permanent. the pension, to which the 
officers who are selected from this examination to Grade 
ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka information and communication 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1293
technology Service are entitled, will be deter mined as per 
the policy decisions taken by the Government with regard to 
the pension scheme in future.  
7.0 Qualifications.- Following qualifications are 
applicable for the recruitment to the posts in Grade ii of 
class 2 of Sri Lanka information and communication 
technology Service :
 (a) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (b)  Shall be not less than 21 years and not more 
than 35 years of age on the closing date of 
applications. (accordingly, only the persons 
whose birthdays fall on or before 11.06.1997 and 
on or after 11.06.1983 are qualified to apply for 
this examination.)
Note.– When the officers in permanent posts of the Public 
Service are recruited through this examination, 
maximum age limit is considered as 45 years 
only at this instance. Therefore, only the officers 
who are serving at a permanent post in the Public 
Service and whose birthday is on 11.06.1997 or 
before or 11.06.1973 or later can apply for this.
 (c) Shall have an excellent character, 
 (d) all the candidates shall have the physical and 
mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka 
and to perform the duties of the post. 
 (e) Educational qualifications :
 01. Shall have obtained a degree in computer 
Science/information technology from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the university 
Grants commission ; 
  or
02. (i) Shall have obtained a degree with 
computer Science/information technology 
as a major subject from a university 
recognized by the university Grants 
commission or a degree awarding 
institution recognized by the university 
Grants commission (at least 1/3 
of the degree should be comprised 
of computer Science/information 
technology) ;
  and
 (ii) Shall have obtained a post graduate 
diploma in computer Science/
information technology from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission ; 
  or
03. (i) Shall have obtained a degree from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission ; 
  and 
 (ii) Shall have obtained a post graduate 
degree in computer Science/
information technology from a 
university recognized by the university 
Grants commission or a degree 
awarding institution recognized by the 
university Grants commission ; 
  or
04. (i) Shall have obtained the certificate 
of NVQ which is equivalent to level 
seven (7) or above NVQ certificate on 
information technology recognized by 
the tertiary and V ocational Education 
commission. 
  and
 (ii) Shall have professional experience of 
two (02) years in the relevant field. 
Note : 
 (i) Original copies of the relevant certificates should 
be produced at the interview in order to prove the 
professional experience mentioned in 7.0( e) 4 (ii).
  Professional experience obtained when engaged 
in a certain employment in private sector should 
be proved by a letter containing the business 
registration number of the institution and EPf 
number of the employee and the relevant letters of 
appointment.
  if professional experience has been obtained 
when engaged in an employment in public sector, 
it should be proved by the letters certified by the 
respective Head of the department and the duty 
lists. 
 (ii)  it is compulsory for every applicant to have 
satisfied all the relevant qualifications on or before 
the closing date of applications.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1294
8.0 Scheme of the examination and syllabus:–
 8.1 the examination will consist of three papers. 
this examination will be held in Sinhala, 
tamil and English medium. candidates will 
not be allowed to change the language medium 
applied once it is selected. 
 8.2 Subjects and the marks allocated for each 
subject are mentioned below :
  Subjects Duration Maximum  Pass
    Marks Marks
01. information and  2 hours 100 40
  communication 
  t echnology
02. aptitude 1 hour 100 40
03. General intelligence 1 hour 100 40
 8.3 01.  Information and Communication 
Technology :
   this paper shall consist to thoroughly 
measure the knowledge and ability on 
supervision in the fields such as principles 
on information and communication 
technology, computer architecture 
and operating systems/software, 
hardware, knowledge on information 
and communication technology for 
the productive implementation of the 
e-government concept, knowledge 
on system analysis, design, testing, 
implementation and maintenance, 
knowledge on creating and maintaining 
data base, hardware, data communication 
and computer network, internet, designing 
websites and new internet services, e-mail, 
life cycle of the projects of information 
and communication t echnology. this 
paper shall consist with multiple choice 
questions, questions with short answers 
and structured questions. all the questions 
should be answered 6.
  02. Aptitude test :
   this paper shall consist of questions to 
measure the ability on statistics and critical 
reasoning. the question paper shall consist 
of fifty (50) questions of multiple choice 
and short answers and all the questions 
should be answered.
  03. General Intelligence : 
   it is expected to assess the level 
of intelligence of the candidate in 
analytical skills, logical comprehension, 
interpretative ability, ability in application 
to other situations and arriving at 
conclusions, in response to problems 
presented in relation to numerical, lingual 
and figurative structure and inter-relations. 
Question paper shall consist of questions 
of multiple choice and short answers and 
all the questions should be answered. 
Note.- these question paper has been designed to 
test the competency and skills of the candidate 
for the duties of the service. Even though this is 
a competitive examination, a candidate is required 
to obtain at least 40% of marks allocated for each 
subject whilst obtaining at least 50% of the total 
marks. Marks shall be deducted in every answer 
sheet for illegible handwriting and spelling 
mistakes. appointments shall strictly be made on 
the order of the marks scored in order to fill the 
number of vacancies allocated for the competitive 
examination. 
 8.4 the result sheet containing the name list of 
applicants, who have passed the examination 
and equivalent to the number of vacancies 
expected to be filled, will be issued to the 
director General of combined Services by 
the commissioner General of Examination. 
in addition to the above, action will be taken 
by the department of Examinations to issue 
results personally to all the applicants or to 
publish the results on the web site of the Sri 
Lanka department of Examinations. www.
results.exams.gov.lk
Interview.– An interview for verification of qualifications 
will be conducted in respect of the candidates who have 
secured the highest level of aggregate marks determined 
by the director General of combined Services out of the 
candidates who have sat for all the question papers of the 
written examination. the date of the interview will be 
determined the director General of combined Services. 
9.0 Penalty for furnishing false information.– the 
candidates should be very careful to include the correct 
particulars in the application. if it is found that any candidate 
is not eligible according to the rules and regulations of this 
examination his/her candidature can be cancelled at any 
time before, during or after the examination. further, if it 
is found that any information furnished by a candidate is 
false he/she is liable to dismissal at any time from the Public 
Service. 

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1295
10.0 examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 500. 
this fee can be paid to any post/sub post office under the 
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examination. the receipt obtained thus should be pasted 
in relevant cage of the application form so as not to be 
detached. (a photo copy of the receipt should be kept for 
further reference). under no circumstances the examination 
fee will be refunded and money orders and stamps are not 
accepted. 
11.0 (i) Applications.– applications should be prepared 
in the following manner using papers of size a4 (21x29cm).
 (a) Paragraphs from No. 1 to 3 should appear on 
the first side of the page. 
 (b) Paragraphs from No. 4 onwards should appear 
on the other pages and the application should 
be filled in the language medium in which the 
candidate appears for the examination. 
 (c) the title of the examination appearing in 
the specimen should be indicated in English 
language as well, on both Sinhala and tamil 
application forms.
  applications which are incomplete and not 
prepared in accordance with the specimen 
form shall be rejected without any notice. 
applications of those who haven't paid 
examination fee on or before due date will also 
be rejected. candidates should be responsible 
for any loss incurred by them due to incomplete 
applications. it would be advisable to keep a 
photo copy of the completed application form 
and it is the responsibility of the candidate to 
make sure that the application form perfected 
by him/herself complies with the specimen 
given in the examination notice. otherwise, 
the application could be rejected. 
12.0 on the  assumption that only those who possess the 
qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have 
sent aplications. the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all candidates who have paid 
the relevant fees, whose complete applications have been 
received on or before the closing date. issuance of an 
admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that 
the candidate has satisfied all the qualifications required for 
this post. if it is found at the interview that the applicant does 
not possess the required qualifications as per the Gazette 
Notification, his or her candidature shall be cancelled.
 13.0 the words "open competitive Examination for 
recruitment to the Posts in Grade ii of class 2 of Sri Lanka 
information and communication technology Service - 
2018" should be written on the top left-hand corner of the 
envelope in which the application is enclosed. 
14.0 the signature of the applicant must have been 
attested both on the application and the admission card for 
the examination. a person applying for the examination 
through a certain institute, must get his/her signature 
attested by the respective head of the institution or by an 
officer authorized by the head of the institution and the other 
applicants must get their signatures attested by a Principal of 
a Government School/retired officer, the Grama Niladhari of 
the relevant division, a Justice of the Peace, a commissioner 
of Oath, a Lawyer, a Notary Public, a Commissioned Officer 
of the Tri-forces, an officer holding a permanent Staff Grade 
post in the Public Service or in the Provincial Public Service 
whose annual consolidated salary is Rs. 240,360 or above, 
a chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or a Nayaka Thero 
or a chief prelate of any other religious place or a prelate 
holding a considerable level of religiuos order. 
15. applications duly perfected should be sent by 
registered post to reach the following address on or before 
11th of June 2018 :
commissioner General of Examinations, 
organization and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, 
P. o. Box 1503,
colombo.
16. Sitting the examination.- A notification will be 
published in newspapers by the department of Examinations 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. 
if the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days 
of such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
Department of examinations in the manner specified in 
the advertisement. Name of the examination, full name of 
the applicant, address and national identity card number 
should be mentioned when making such inquiry. in case of 
applicants outside colombo, it would be advisable to send 
a letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent, along with the above details 
to the fax number mentioned in the notification and further 
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the 
department of Examinations : i. e. copy of the application 
form and the receipt kept at your possession relevant to 
payment of examination fee, receipt of registration. 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1296
 16.1 the candidate should produce the admission 
card containing the attested signature to the 
Supervisor of the examination hall on the first 
day of the examination.
17. candidates should furnish one of the following 
documents to the Supervisor of the examination hall to 
prove their identity :
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
for Registration of Persons,
 (ii) a valid Passport.
18.0 issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has satisfied 
the qualifications required for sitting the examination. 
candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examination on 
conducting the examination and issuing the results. they 
shall be liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by commissioner General of Examination for violation of 
these rules and regulations. 
19.0 any matter not referred to herein will be decided 
by director General of combined Services. all candidates 
are bound to comply with the general examination rules 
published in this Gazette. 
20.0 in case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, tamil 
and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification 
shall prevail. 
 K. V . P. M. J. 
gamage, 
 director General of combined Services, 
 Ministry of Public administration and 
 Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
27th of april, 2018.
Specimen Application form
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR REcRuitMENt to cLaSS 2-ii of  SRi LaNKa iNfoRMatioN 
aNd coMMuNicatioN tEcHNoLoGy SERVicE - 2018
(indicate clearly the relevant symbol/number in the cages)
Medium of Examination : 
(indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3 (For office use only)
English - 4
Whether you sit the examination under the condition applied for disabled and rehabilitated persons as per para. 4.0 of 
the Gazette notification. (Please read the para. 4.0 of the Gazette notification well before filling this part since only the 
applicants with disabilities should mark as "yes" in this cage)
 y es - 1
 No - 2 (indicate the relevant number in the cage) 
1.0 1.1 Name, with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)  example : GuNaWaRdHaNa, M. G. B. S. K. 
 1.2 Name in full (in English block capitals)  :–––––––.
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil)  :–––––––––––.
2.0  2.1 Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)
 2.2 Permanent address  :–––––––––––.
  (in Sinhala/tamil)
 2.3 address to which admission card should be sent  :–––––––––––.
  (in English block capitals)

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1297
3.0 3.1 Gender : Male - 0  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)    
    female - 1
 3.2 National identity card No. : 
 3.3 date of Birth : y ear : Month : date :
 3.4 age as at the closing date of applications : y ears :  Months : days :
  (at 11.06.2018) 
 3.5 Mobile Number :
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
 4.1 if a degree has been obtained from a recognized university, mention : 
 (i) university :–––––––––––.
 (ii) degree :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Effective date of the degree :–––––––––––.
 (iv) Major Subjects :
   01..............................
   02..............................
   03..............................
   04..............................
 4.2 if a post graduate degree or a post graduate diploma has been obtained, mention : 
 (i) Name of the university/institution :–––––––––.
 (ii) Name of the post graduate degree/Postgraduate diploma :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Effective date of the post graduate degree/Postgraduate diploma :–––––––––––.
 4.3 (a)  If you possess the certificate of NVQ which is equivalent to level seven (7) or above NVQ certificate on 
information technology recognized by the tertiary and V ocational Education commission, mention : 
 (i) Name of the course followed :––––––––.
 (ii) institute from where the course was followed :–––––––––––.
 (iii) Effective date of the course :–––––––––.
 (iv) duration of the course (Number of hours) :–––––––––––.
 
  (b)  Professional experience and other qualifications :
   Professional experience :
Institution from where experience was obtained Duration
01
02
03
04
  (c) Other qualifications :
    ................................................................................................................................................................................
    ................................................................................................................................................................................
    ................................................................................................................................................................................
    

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'05'11
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.05.2018
1298
5.0 details of the receipt of payment of examination fee : 
 (i) Office to which the examination fee was paid  :–––
––––––––.
 (ii) Number and date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Affix one edge of the receipt here so as not to be 
detached.
6.0 Have you ever been convicted from a court for any 
charge ? 
 (indicate P in the cage) (if yes, give details)  :–––––––.
  y es   No 
7.0 Certification of the candidate :
 (a) i declare that information furnished by me in 
this form is true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. i agree to bear any loss incurred due to 
not completing some sections of the application and 
completing incorrectly. further, i declare that all the 
sections of this application are perfected correctly. 
 (b) i am aware that if the declaration made by me 
is found to be false I am liable to disqualification 
before appointment and to dismissal from service if 
the inaccuracy is detected after apointment. 
 (c) further, i agree to be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations on conducting the examination 
and issuance of reulsts. i will not change any of the 
information furnished here. 
 ––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
 (Signature should be placed in the 
 presence of the Officer who attests the signature).
date :–––––––––––.
8.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ who 
submits this application is known to me personally, he/she 
placed his/her signature in my presence on ..................... 
and further he/she has paid the due examination fee and has 
affixed the receipt. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Officer attesting 
 the signature.
date :––––––––––.
Name of the Officer Attesting the Signature :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
(Place the official stamp)
9.0  Recommendation of the Head of the department (only 
for the applicants in Public Service) :
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .............................. 
who is submitting this application is serving in a permanent 
and pensionable post in this department, he/she has satisfied 
the relevant qualifications for applying for this post as per 
this Gazette Notification and that he/she could be released 
from his/her present post, if selected for the position.
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department. 
 (Place the official stamp)
date :––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the department :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
05-355
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.