

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
657
657
wxl 1"754 - 2012 wfm%a,a 11 jeks nodod - 2012'04'11
No. 1,754 – WEDNESDAY , APRIL  11, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 659
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th April, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th  April,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEW ARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,753 of 05.04.2012 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
658
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Sta ndard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
659
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE - 2010(2012)
AND
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  III  OF  SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE - 2011(2012)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified candidates for Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment to the Posts of Class
III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
01. In this notification the term “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Ministry of Public Administration and Home affairs and
the term “Service” means the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
01. Written Examination.- Only one competitive examination shall be held for Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment
to Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service – 2010 and Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Grade III of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service – 2011. This examination will consist of following question papers.
(i) General Administration
(ii) Financial Regulations
(iii) Case Study
Date of Examination.- This examination will be held on July, 2012 in Colombo. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone or
cancel this examination subject to instructions of Public Service Commission.
Oral Test.- Candidates who have appeared for all the papers of the written examination and secured minimum of 40% marks in
each paper and a sufficiently high aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service Commission shall be called for the oral test. The
date of the Oral test shall be determined by Secretary.
03. Number of the persons to be appointed.– Actions will be taken to hold Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class
III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service - 2010 to fill 64 vacancies and Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class III of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service – 2011 to fill 29 vacancies.
The effective date of appointment.– Will be determined as per the orders issued by the Public Service Commission.
04. Conditions of Service.- A selected candidate will be appointed to Class III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service on the general
conditions governing the appointments in the Public Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the Minute of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service (published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1419/3 dated
14.11.2005) and subject to any amendments made or to be made to the Minute hereinafter.
4.1 Public Service Commission reserves the powers to cancel the appointment of any candidate who fails to assume
duties of the appointed post on due date and/or rejects or avoids serving in an area where he/she is appointed.
05. Structure and Monthly Salary Scale.-
Special Grade - Rs. 42,390- 12x1,310 - Rs. 58,110/-
Class I - Rs. 36,755 - 17x1,050 -  Rs. 53,555/-
Class II - Rs. 30,175 - 8x790 -  Rs. 35,705/-
Class III - Rs. 22,935 - 10x645 -  Rs. 29,385/-
(Candidates are required to pass the 1st and 2nd Efficiency Bar examinations within 03 years  and 06 years from the date
of appointment respectively and in terms of the provisions of Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007,
proficiency in the second official language should be acquired before the lapse of 05 years from the date of appointment).
Recruitments by this examination will be made to Class III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
05. Eligibility :
6.1 Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service - 2010.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
660
Subject to the provisions in the note indicated at the end of this paragraph, a person will be eligible to sit the Limited
Competitive Examination if he/she either;
(a) (i) Is a public officer confirmed in the services/grades mentioned in Para. 6.3 as at 31.12.2010 ; and
(ii) Has not less than 10 years continuous permanent service in any one or more of such services/grades as at 31.12.2010 ;
or
(b) (i) Is a public officer confirmed in the following services/grades and has not less than 05 years continuous permanent
service in any one or more of such services/grades as at 31.12.2010 ; and
(ii) Has obtained a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Note.- (a) The effective date of the degree shall be a date on or before 31.12.2010 and candidates should have satisfied
qualifications indicated in 6.1 a (I) and (II) or 6.1b(I) and (II) above, on or before the above date.
(b) The candidate should be of an excellent moral character and physical fitness.
(c) No person ordained in any religious order shall sit the examination.
6.2 Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service – 2011 :
Subject to the provisions in the note indicated at the end of this paragraph, a person will be eligible to sit the Limited
Competitive Examination if he/she either ;
(a) (i) Is a public officer confirmed in the services/grades mentioned in Para. 6.3 as at 31.12.2011 ; and
(ii) Has not less than 10 years continuous permanent service in any one or more of such services/grades as at
31.12.2011 ; or
(b) (i) Is a public officer confirmed in the following services/grades and has not less than 05 years continuous
permanent service in any one or more of such services/grades as at 31.12.2011 ; and
(ii) Has obtained a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants Commission.
Note.- (a) The effective date of the degree shall be a date on or before 31.12.2011 and candidates should have
satisfied qualifications indicated in 6.2 a (I) and (II) or 6.2b(I) and (II) above, on or before the above date.
(b) The candidate should be of an excellent moral character and physical fitness.
(c) No person ordained in any religious order shall sit the examination.
6.3 Services and Grades  :
(a) An officer in any of the following Combined services under the control of the Director General of Combined Services.
Officers in Public Management Assistants’ Service, Translators, Librarians.
(b) An officer in any of the following Clerical Services :
Railway, Government Printing, Health
(c) An officer in any of the following Department Grade or who had been in such a Grade and subsequently absorbed to
a similar Grade in the Provincial Public Service.
Department/Ministry Grades
1. All Ministries Assistant Secretary (Non SLAS)
Public Relations Officer
2, Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skill Development Assistant Director (Sports)/District Sports
Ministry of Sports Officer/Sports Officer
3. Ministry of Finance and Planning Department Projects Officer, Statistical Survey Officer,
of Policy Planning and Implementation Statistical Assistant, Plan & Implementation Officer
4. Department of Immigration & Emigration Senior Authorized Officer, Authorized Officer
5. Department of Registration of Persons Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
6. Department of Census and Statistics Statistics Investigator

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
661
7. Ministry of Indigenous Medicine Hospital Secretary
Department of Ayurveda Investigations Officer
8. Ministry of Social Services Assistant Director (Departmental)
Department of Social Services Superintendent of Welfare and Social Welfare,
Superintendent of State Homes for aged and infirmed, Social Services
Officer
9. Department of Probation and Childcare Head Master, Head Mistress, Probation Officer,
Hostel Warden, House Master, Home Mistress
10. Ministry of Lands & Land Development Lands officer/District Lands Officer,
Land Commissioner’s Department (Departmental)/Land use Planning
Officer/Kachcheri Surveyor/Colonization Officer
11. Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs Grama Niladhari
12. Department of Official Languages Research Assistant, Translator
13. Ministry of Labour and Labour Relations Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
14. Ministry of Rural Industries and Self Industrial Assistant, General Manager, Manager
Employment Promotion Assistant, Economic Assistant, Technical Assistant
Department of Textile
15. Ministry of Health Hospital Secretary, Planning & Program Officer,
Public Health Inspector, Registered and Assistant Medical Practitioners.
16. Ministry of Local Government & Provincial Assistant Commissioner (Departmental), Local
Councils, Department of Provincial Councils Government Clerical Officers, Translator,
Shroff, Stenographer, Typist, Storekeeper
17. Ministry of Trade & Marketing Development Inspector of Weight and Measures, Price
and Consumer Affairs, Control Inspector
Department of Measurement Unit Standards and Services
18. Ministry of Agriculture Agricultural Instructor, Divisional Officer,
Development of Agriculture Assistant Commissioner (Departmental)
Department of Agrarian Service
19. Ministry of Justice Translator, Publication Assistant, Stenographer
Department of Legal Draftsman
Supreme Court
20. Ministry of Transport Motor Traffic Inspector
Department of Motor Traffic
21. Ministry of Irrigation and Water Management Planning Assistant
Department of Irrigation
22. Ministry of National Heritages Cultural Officers
Ministry of Cultural Affairs
National Museum
Department of Cultural Affairs
23. Ministry of Education Superintendent of Hostels
24. Ministry of Information & Media Press Officer, Proof Reader
Department of Government Information
Government Press
Department/Ministry Grades

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
662
25. Ministry of Post and Telecommunication Postal Combined Services Officers in the Salary scale of
Department of Post T- 3-5-1 and T-3-4 Unified Postal Service Postal Service Officer BI
26. Ministry of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Fisheries Assistant
Development
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
27. Department of Co-operative Development District Officer, Cooperative Inspector
28. Department of Food Commissioner Food Control Inspector (former Food & Price Control Inspector)
(d) Provincial Public Service. – An officer in any of the following Services who have satisfied basic qualifications mentioned
above.
Clerk, Stenographer, Typist, Shroff, Book Keeper, Translator, Store Keeper, Librarian.
(e) Provincial Public Service. – An officer in any of the following Services who have satisfied basic qualifications mentioned
above.
Revenue Inspector, Labour and Welfare Officer, Inspector of Weighing and Measuring, Relief Officer at Department of
Commissioner of Charity Colombo Municipal Council, Staff Officer and Secretary, Management Service Officer, Local
Government Officer.
(f) It is illegal to make applications by the officers who are not belonging to the posts indicated in this Gazette notification
(Except for officers who have been absorbed to new posts due to change of designation). Such officers will not be considered
for appointments even though they sit for the examination.
Note :– (i) Candidates who have not possessed satisfactory service reports within the 5 years immediately preceding the date on
which the candidate satisfies the qualifications will not be considered for appointments even if they sit for the examination.
(ii) A candidate is considered as having possessed a satisfactory period of service if he/she satisfies the following conditions ;
(a) Candidate should have earned all due salary increments within the 5 years immediately preceding the date on which
the qualifications should have to be completed.
(b) Candidates should have not been subjected to any punishment for any offence committed within this period (Except
warning).
(iii) An officer who has been interdicted by the closing date of applications is not eligible for appointment.
(iv) As per Section 5(1) or 5(2) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, no person is allowed to sit the Competitive
Examination for more than two occasions altogether ;
07. Examination Fees.– The fee for the examination will be Rs. 1,000. This should be paid before the closing date of applications
at any District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examination and  an
edge of the receipt obtained thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of the application form. The fee is non-refundable. It  would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
08. Method of applications :–
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared on paper
of A4 size using both sides. It is to be specifically noted that the application should be prepared in such a way that
headings No. 1.0 to 3.12 appear on the 1st page, 4.0 to 6.0 on the second page and the rest on the third page. The
application should be filled legibly by the candidate himself in his own handwriting. Applications that do not comply
with the specimen or that have not been completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is advisable to keep
a photocopy of the application with the candidate. It is the responsibility of the candidate to verify that the perfected
application complies with the specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, the application may be rejected.
Department/Ministry Grades

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
663
(b) Candidate should clearly mention the examination applied for in the relevant cage of the application.
(c) The application should be prepared in the same language in which the candidate intends to sit the examination. It is
required to indicate the name of the examination in English also in the applications prepared both in Sinhala and Tamil
media.
(d) Applications perfected by candidates should be sent through the respective Head of Department to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, (Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla) before 14th of May, 2012 by Registered Post. The top left corner of the envelope containing
the application should clearly bear the words “Limited Competitive Examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka
Administrative Service - 2010/2011”. Application received after this date will be rejected.
(e) Applications that are not complete in every aspect will be rejected. Complaints on applications getting lost or
delayed will not be entertained.
(f) A notification will be published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon as the admission cards are
issued to candidates. If the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should
be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable
to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of Examinations. i. e.—  certified photocopies of
the application form and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of applicants outside
Colombo, letter of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
09. Admission to Examination :
(a) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue Admission Cards to all persons whose applications have been
received. A candidate presenting himself for the examination should produce his admission card to the supervisor of
the examination center. Any candidate who fails to produce his admission card will not be permitted to sit the
examination;
(b) Candidates must sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. Every candidate should get his admission
card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor it of the hall, on the first day he presents himself for the
Examination. A set of rules to be observed by all candidates is published in this Gazette.
(c) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting the examination and they are liable to a punishment imposed by him for breach of these rules.
Note :- Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to sit the examination
has been accepted.
10. Identity of Candidates.–  A Candidate will be required to prove his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, one of the following documents only will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at
any state, prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has purposely furnished false information  or willfully
suppressed any material fact, he or she will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall be dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
of the Public Service Commission.
13. Scheme of Examination.— Language Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in the language media of Sinhala, Tamil and English ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language in which he passed the qualifying examination/interview for
entry into the Public Service or in an official language.
Note :- (i) A candidate should sit all the papers of the examination in one and the same language.
(ii) A candidates will not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
664
14. Method of Testing :
(a) A test consisting of written papers in the following subjects:
General Administration - 100 marks - duration 03 hrs.
Financial Regulations - 100 marks - duration 03 hrs.
Case Study - 100 marks - duration 02hrs.
Note.– Candidates shall answer all the questions in each question paper given for each subject.
(b) Oral Test  - 25 marks
Candidates who have become qualified out of those who have sat all the papers in the written examination will be
called for the Oral Test. Only those candidates, who obtain a minimum of 40% of marks in each paper and a
sufficiently high aggregate of marks as determined by the Public Service Commission, will be called for the Oral Test.
If there is a sufficient number of candidates who become eligible thus, a number equivalent to twice the number of
vacancies existing will be called for the oral test.
(Marking scheme will be approved by the Public Services Commission at the preliminary stage by recruitment.).
Note:- (i) If there is a sufficient number of qualified candidates, a number of candidates equivalent to a twofold of the
total number of vacancies in both years shall be called for the oral test.
(ii) Vacancies shall be filled on the basis of the order of the merit of the marks obtained for written and oral tests
as well as satisfying qualifications for the relevant year. Accordingly vacancies of year 2010 shall be filled
with the candidates who have obtained highest marks and have satisfied the qualifications as at year 2010.
(iii) A candidate who has appeared at this examination shall be treated as a candidate who sat for one examination.
At the instances where a candidate has applied for both examinations, the qualifications shall be considered
for year 2010.
(iv) Calling for the oral test shall not constitute fulfilling of qualifications for an appointment. The number of
vacancies to be filled will be as determined by the Public Service Commission.
15. Syllabus :
(a) General Administration .- It is intended to test the candidate’s knowledge on office practice and systems, current
circular instructions and the provisions of the Establishments  Code with special reference to the following  chapters
and the procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission in the Gazette Extraordinary of the government
dated 20.02.2009.
V, VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,  XLVIII.
(b) Financial Regulations :
(i) Part I of the Financial Regulations of the Government (Except Chapter X).
(ii) The Estimates of the current year - their arrangements, the Revenue Heads, the Finance and appropriation.
(iii) Ordinance related to specific accounts maintained in Kachcheries.
(c) Case Study.— A paper designed to test the candidate’s power of constructive thinking and problem solving ability. The
candidate will be presented with one or more situations posing problems to which solutions are required.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
28th of March, 2012.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
665
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF
SRI LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2010(2012)
AND
LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO CLASS III OF
SRI LANKA ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE - 2011(2012)
1.0 Medium : 2.0 Examination applied for :
Limited C ompetitive Exa mination for Recruitment of Sri Lanka
Medium of Examination Administrative Service :
Sinhala - 2 2010 - 1
Tamil - 3
English - 4  2011 - 2
(Indicate the relevant Number in the cage)
The application should be filled in the medium of (Indicate the relevant number in the cage, can be applied for
language in which the candidate intends to sit the both years if required qualifications have been satisfied)
examination.
3.0 Personal Information  :
3.1 Name with initials at the end (In English block capitals)  : Example :  SILVA, A. B.
3.2 Name in full (In English block capitals) :————.
3.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
3.4 Official address in English block capitals (Admission card will be sent to this address) :————.
3.5 Official Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
3.6 Private Address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :————.
3.7 Sex : Male - 0 Female - 1   - Indicate relevant number in the cage
3.8 Marital Status (Single - 1, Married - 2) - Indicate relevant number in the cage
3.9 Race : (Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2, IndianTamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other- 5)  - Indicate relevant number in the cage
       3.10 National Identity Card No. :
3.11 Date of Birth :         Year :    Month : Date :
3.12 Telephone No. (if any) :
4.0 Indicate the language medium in which you passed the qualifying examination/interview  for entry to the Service/Grade :—.
5.0 (i) Your Service/Grade out of the Services, Departmetns, Grades mentioned in Para. 6 of the Gazette Notification [Class,
Grade or Segment (if any) should be indicated]. (If you have served in more than one eligible Service/Grade, those should
be indicated with dates) :————.
(a) Present Post:————.
Service to which the Post belongs : (Public/Provincial Public):————.
Grade :————.
Class/Segment :————.
Date of appointment to the post :————.
Date of confirmation in the post :————.
Effective date of Degree :————.
(b) Other services/grades (if any) through which you claim eligibility :
Name of Service/Grade Date of Appointment Date of Confirmation Period of Service
From ................ To.............
(1) …………………… ……… …………… …………………… ……………………
(2) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(3) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(4) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………
(5) …………………… …………………… …………………… ……………………

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
666
(ii) T otal period of permanent and continuous service as the date on which the candidate satisfies the qualifications in the services/
grades referred to in Para (6) of the  Gazette Notification :––––––––––.
1. Indicate the years in which the candidate has sat the .................................
examination as per Sri Lanka Administrative Service .................................
minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary .................................
No. 509/2 dated 7th June, 1988.
2. Indicate the years in which the candidate has sat the Indicate whether the candidate
examination after 01.01.2005 as per Sri Lanka has/has not sat the examination
Administrative Service minute published in the 2007 open ..................................
Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,419/3 dated 14th 2007 limited .................................
November, 2005 (Which is effective at present) 2009 open .................................
2009 limited .................................
2010 open .................................
6.0 Paste the cash receipt properly :
(Paste the cash receipt firmly)
(Keep a photocopy)
7.0 Certificate of the candidate :
I declare that during the five years preceding .................., I have earned all increments (Excluding those conditional to passing
service or departmental examinations). possessed continuous and permanent service period as per Section 6.1(a)/6.1(b) and
6.2(a)/6.2(b) of the Gazette notification and that I have not been subject to any form of disciplinary punishment (Excluding
warning) for any offence committed during those five years.
I declare that I am eligible to sit this Limited Competitive Examination and that to the best of my knowledge, the
information given in this is true and that I have affixed the receipt No. ............. dated ............. being payment of th e
examination. I also agree to be bound by the rules and regulations of this examination and any decision that may be taken to
cancel my candidature prior or durng or after the examination if it is found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of
this examination. Further, I declare that I shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examinations on conducting of this examination.
————,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :————.
8.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the personal file) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. who is submitting this application is serving in a post of .. ............ under
the Central government/Provincial Council of ............../Ministry/Department of .............. and has earned all salary inc rements
during the period of 5 years prior to ................. (Excluding those conditional to passing service or departmental examina tions),
possessed continuous and permanent service period as per Section 6.1(a)/6.1(b)/6.2(a)/6.2(b) of the Gazette notification and has
not been subjected to any disciplinary punishment (Except warnings), the particulars furnished in the application have been found
to be correct according to available records, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per regulations stipulated in this Gazette
Notification, he/she has paid the prescribed and affixed the receipt herein and signed this application in my presence.
—————,
Signature of Head of Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :—————.
Designation :—————.
Date :—————.
(Place official frank)
04–380

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'04'11
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 11.04.2012
667
The term “not less 22 years and not more than 28 years as at 23.03.2012” (on the date of publication of the Gazette Notification) mentioned
in para (D) of Section 5 should be revised as “not less 22 years and not more than 30 years as at 23.03.2012”.
and the closing date 23.04.2012 mentioned in para (c) and (d) of Section 7 should be revised as at 30.04.2012 in the notice in
respect of the Limited/Open Competitive examination for recruitment to Class III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service 2012 published in
the Part I : Section (IIA) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,751 dated 23.03.2012.
The candidates who have already forwarded the applications are not necessary to apply again.
04-520
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.