

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2955 
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2946
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"140 – 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'09'06
No. 2,140 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER 06, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th september, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 12th september, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2943 - b 81557- 5,403 (09/2019)
N. B.–    (i) Prevention of offences relating to sports bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of august 23, 2019.
  (ii) Registration of documents (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of august 23, 2019.
  (iii) Powers of attorney (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of august 23, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2944
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2945
RuLES AND INSTRuCTIONS fOR ExAmINATION CANDIDATES
all examination candidates are bound to act in compliance with the provisions of the Public 
Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended by No.19 of 1976 and other rules and 
regulations imposed from time to time.
the following conditions and restrictions are hereby imposed through the sentence No. 
20 of the Public Examinations act, No.25 of 1968 which was amended through No.19 of 1976 
as per the powers assigned to the commissioner General Examinations.
all examination candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below and a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following penalties mentioned 
below at the discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
 i. debarring to appear for the whole examination or part of it which was under 
investigation.
 ii. disqualifying from one subject or from the whole examination which was under 
investigation.
 iii. imposing lifetime ban for all the examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka.
 iV . debarment from appearing for examinations conducted by the department of 
Examinations, sri Lanka for a certain period of time. 
 V . issuing a letter with suspended debarment of examination.
 VI. Suspension of the certificate for a specific period.
 VII. Handing over the examination candidate to the police to file a criminal case under the 
Public Examinations act or complaining the police regarding such act.
 Viii. When the examination candidate is a government employee, reporting the appointing 
authority of such examination candidate (to take disciplinary actions) regarding the 
conduct of such examination candidate.
the commissioner General of Examinations reserves himself the right to take actions with 
respect to such examination candidate prior to, during or after the examination or at any stage. 
His decision with respect to that should be deemed final.
1. Every examination candidate should act in the examination hall and at the examination 
premises in such a manner that any disturbance or obstruction should not take place for the 
examination supervisor and his staff as well as for other examination candidates. moreover, 
examination candidates should not vandalize the property of the examination premises or 
damage the private property of the examination staff.
2. Examination candidates should act in compliance with the instructions given by the 
examination supervisor and his staff when the examination is in progress and before the 
commencement of the examination as well as immediately after the end of the examination.
3. No examination candidate will be admitted to the examination hall after the lapse of 
half an hour subsequent to the commencement of the question paper at an examination. also, 
no examination candidate will be permitted to leave the examination hall until the examination 
ends. actions should be taken to participate for practical tests or oral tests on time.
4. Every examination candidate should sit on the seat reserved for him/her bearing the 
respective index Number and not any other seat. Unless with the special permission of the 
examination supervisor, no candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat 
other than the one assigned to him/her is liable to be considered as an act committed with 
dishonest intention.
5. absolute silence should be maintained in the examination hall. a candidate is forbidden 
to speak to or to exchange messages or to have any dealing with any person within or outside 
the examination hall for any matter other than a member of the examination hall staff.
6. Since the answer script of an examination candidate will be solely identified through 
the candidate’s index Number, it is completely prohibited to write one’s name on the 
answer script, put a certain mark or note to distinguish the answer script, write indecent or 
unnecessary things on the answer script and attaching currency notes with the answer script. 
further, writing other examination candidate’s index Number on one’s answer script could be 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing index Numbers 
those are difficult to decipher are liable to be rejected.
7. Examination candidates should not write on question paper or desk or any other place 
except on the papers (papers given to answer with the invigilator’s short signature and the date 
with regard to the day on which the examination is conducted) supplied at the examination 
hall. acting non- compliance with these instructions will be considered as an act committed 
with dishonest intention.
8. any paper or answer books supplied to examination candidates should not be torn up or 
crushed. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work should be clearly crossed out and 
attached to the answer script or submitted with the answer script at the end of the examination 
or the candidate should do the needful as per the given instructions. it is forbidden to take out 
anything written inside the examination hall. if a question has been answered twice in two 
different places, the unnecessary answer should be clearly crossed out.
9. it is forbidden to take out the papers or any other material supplied to answer at the 
examination out of the examination hall. all such materials are belonged to the commissioner 
General of Examinations and breach of this rule will be considered as a punishable act.
10. When examination candidates appear for the examination in the examination hall, 
they should not keep in their possession or by their side other note books, papers with notes 
or paper pieces except the stationery supplied to them for answering at the examination and 
the materials which were authorized in written for each examination. also, keeping mobile 
phones, electronic communication instruments/ devices in one's possession or by one's side 
and obtaining assistance from external parties through such instruments/devices and sending 
information to other parties and social media while the examination is in progress are 
considered to be dishonest acts and punishable offences.
11. in case electronic communication instruments/devices are revealed to be used for the 
purposes   mentioned in the above paragraph no. 10, such instruments/devices will be taken 
into the custody of the commissioner General of Examinations until the investigations are 
concluded.
12. after sitting in the examination hall, an examination candidate is strictly forbidden to 
keep any unauthorized material or instrument in his/her possession prior to the examination 
or when the examination is in progress. in case the supervisor or the examination staff 
orders, each candidate is bound to declare everything he/she has with him/her and get them 
checked. breach of these requirements should be considered as an attempt to commit an act 
of dishonesty.
13. it is an offence, in case a candidate copies or attempts to copy from the answer script 
of another candidate or a book or a script or a paper containing notes or through signals or any 
other source or acts dishonesty. also, helping another candidate and getting help from another 
candidate or a person or exam staff are also offences and every completed answer sheet should 
be kept underneath the sheet on which the answer is being written. Writing papers should not 
be strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to leave the 
examination hall even for a brief period during the course of the paper after the commencement 
of the examination. However, in case an examination candidate needs to leave the examination 
hall to use the lavatory/ urinal, the candidate will be permitted to go outside for a brief period 
under the surveillance of an officer belongs to the assistant staff of the examination supervisor. 
He/ she shall be subject to search before leaving the examination hall as well as when re-
entering it.
15. impersonation before commencement of answering at the examination hall or after, is 
a punishable act. tampering with identity cards or presenting false identity cards is considered 
to be an act of dishonesty.
16. assistance given to a candidate in an improper and dishonest manner by a candidate 
or a person, who is not a candidate, is considered to be a serious offence.
17. Examination candidate should adhere to the following instructions.
 i. Every examination candidate should take actions to get the signature in their 
admission paper attested and get the subjects amended prior to the examination, 
after inquiring the department of Examinations, sri Lanka in case there is 
any discrepancy between the subjects applied and the subject indicated in the 
admission paper.
 ii. it is appropriate to arrive the examination hall, half an hour prior to the 
commencement of the examination and if you are not quite certain of the 
location of the examination hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of 
examination and be sure of its exact location.
 III. Candidate should produce their identity cards and get their identities confirmed 
at every paper they sit when appearing for the examination.
 (a) actions will be taken to cancel the candidature in case a candidate fails to 
produce the identification documents at the examination hall and in case a 
candidate forgets to bring such documents into the examination hall, that 
fact should be brought to the notice of the supervisor and arrangements 
should be made to produce them before the examination ends.
 (b) Every candidate should be in the examination hall during the examination 
period in such a way that his/her face should be clearly recognizable to 
display his / her identity in a clearly visible manner.
 iV . Examination candidates should keep their ears openly and in a clearly visible 
manner so as to confirm that they are not using electronic communication 
instruments/ devices like bluetooth.
 V . No paper other than those issued at the examination hall should be used for 
answering questions. Excess paper and other materials should be left on your 
desk in good condition in a reusable manner.
 Vi. Examination candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, erasers, foot 
rulers, geometrical instruments, boxes of coloured pencils and boxes of 
coloured chalks,etc.
 Vii. When you start answering, you should promptly write down the index Number 
clearly on the answer book used and each sheet of paper. Write answers clearly 
and legibly on both sides of the paper. you should leave at least a single blank 
line after providing the answer to a part of a question before starting to answer 
the next part of such question. you should provide answers in a fresh page for 
each question.
 Viii. the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart to enter the question 
number. since the right-hand margin is reserved for the examiner’s use, nothing 
should be written there. actions should be taken to number the questions you 
answered correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 iX. When mathematical questions are answered, give all details of calculations and 
any rough work in their serial order as part of the solving of the sum. the 
sketches and diagrams drawn in the relevant places should be accurate and 
sufficiently large.
 X. y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the head of the questions 
paper with regard to the compulsory questions and the other questions which 
should be selected. marks will not be granted for answers provided disregarding 
the given instructions in the question paper. 
 Xi. at the end of answering for each question, in addition to the answer book used, 
the answer sheets should be collected according to the page number and then 
should be tied/ attached at the top left-hand corner in a non-detachable manner. 
make sure whether you have attached all the answer sheets prior to handing 
over the answer script. any answer sheet taken out of the examination centre 
will not be evaluated after the handing over of such answer scripts.
 Xii. y our answer script should be handed over to the examination supervisor or 
to an officer of his/her staff. You should remain in your seat until the answer 
scripts are collected. failure to do so may result in the loss of your answer script 
and your being treated as an absentee for a certain subject.
 Xiii. if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the examination supervisor or an 
officer of his/her staff due to a certain matter, you should sign him by tapping 
two times on the desk without disturbing others.
commissioner General of the Examinations.
at the department of Examinations, sri Lanka,
Pellawatta,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2946
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
GamPaHa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the posts of Registrar of births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
07th october, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 13th august, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Gampaha mahara Post of marriage Registrar of (General) in siyane 
Korale West division and birth and death of 
dalupitiya division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Gampaha.
Gampaha minuwangoda Post of additional marriage Registrar of (General) 
in aluthkuru Koralaya North (mabodale) division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Gampaha.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2947
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Gampaha biyagama Post of additional marriage Registrar of (General) 
in siyane Korale West (Walgama) division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Gampaha.
Gampaha attanagalle Post of Registrar of muslim marriage in siyane 
Korale West (thihariya) division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Gampaha.
09–75
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
 
KaLUtaRa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the posts of Registrar of births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
07th october, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 13th august, 2019.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2948
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications should 
be sent
Kalutara Panadura Post of birth and death Registrar of Panadura 
town area
district secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Horana Post of additional marriage Registrar of 
(General) in Raigam Korale (Kulupana) division
district secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Horana Post of marriage Registrar of (General) in 
Raigam Koralaya division and birth and death 
of thalagala division
district secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district secretariat, Kalutara.
Kalutara Panadura Post of birth and death Registrar of Wadduwa 
town
district secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district secretariat, Kalutara.
09–76
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT 
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General) 
coLombo  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the posts of Registrar of births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
07th october, 2019.
 N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 13th august, 2019.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2949
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
colombo colombo Post of marriage (General) Registrar of Hulftdrop district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, colombo.
colombo moratuwa Post of marriage (General) Registrar of salpiti 
Koralaya (Koralawella) division
district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, colombo.
09–77
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
PUttaLam  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages/Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out 
in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
07th october, 2019.
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on the day of 13th august, 2019.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2950
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Puttalam chillaw Post of  muslim marriages Registrar of 
chillaw town area of Pitigal Korale 
North division
district secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district secretariat, Kurunegala
09–79
––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths
 
distRict of PUttaLam
aPPLicatioNs are hereby called for the post of Registrar of birth and death in the divisions depicted in the schedule 
hereunder.
01. applicants should be the residents within the boundaries of relevant Local Governments Limit/divisions Limit 
depicted in the schedule and further must be recognized by residents who possess considerable assets.
02. both males and females could submit applications for this Post. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 and not more than 62 years of age.  
04. applicants must be capable of working in the secondary language to meet the requirement of the residents 
within the division and should have passed General ordinary Level Examination G.c.E (o/L) minimum of six subjects with 
two credits including a credit pass for sinhala/tamil Language (Relevant language for the Post), in not more two sittings or 
else should have passed any other equivalent examination. 
05.  more relevant information of this post could be obtained from the notices displayed at public places within 
the division such as District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats or Land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, 
Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the Schedule. 
06. applications could be obtained from relevant district secretariats (Government agent) or Land and district 
Registries or divisional secretariats.
07. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 07.10.2019 to reach to the address depicted in the 
schedule. 
 
N. C. VithaNage,
 Registrar General.
at Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
battaramulla.
on this 13th day of august, 2019.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2951
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for 
which  Applications are 
called
Local Government/Division 
Limit in which the applicants 
should residing permanent
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Puttalam chilaw Post of births and deaths 
Registrar of chilaw General 
Hospital division
chilaw municipal council district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Puttalam Post of births and deaths 
Registrar of Puttalam base 
Hospital division
Puttalam municipal council district secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
secretariat, Puttalam.
09–78
–––––––––––––––––––––
hEALTh SERvICE COmmITTEE Of PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
Recruitment to the Post of Chief Legal Officer belonging to Executive Service Category
of ministry of health, Nutrition and Indigenous medicine - 2019
aPPLicatioNs are called from only qualified Legal Officers in Grade I of Executive Service Category in Public 
service /Provincial Public service by the order of Health service committee of Public service commission for 
the selection of eligible persons to fill the vacancy existing in the post of Chief Legal Officer of Executive Service 
category of ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine. applications prepared in compliance with 
the specimen form of application appended to this notification should be sent by registered post to reach the Director 
(admin) 07, ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine, No 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa 
thero mawatha, colombo 10 on or before the below mentioned date. the words “Recruitment to the post of 
Chief Legal Officer of Executive Service Category of Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine  
-2019 should be clearly mentioned on the top left corner of the envelope.
 
(a) closing date of applications is 04.10.2019.
Note.– complaints made about loss or delay of applications or any other connected letter in the post will not 
be considered. any liability resulting from delaying applications until the closing date of applications 
should be borne by the candidates themselves.
01. Method of Recruitment.– From the applicants who possess the qualifications prescribed in the notification, the 
candidate who secures the highest marks on the results of an interview conducted to check the eligibility by an interview 
board appointed by the Health Service Committee of Public Service Commission, will be recruited to fill the vacancy. The 
interview to check the eligibility will be conducted in accordance with the marking scheme (mentioned under No. 06) ap-
proved by the Health service committee of Public service commission. appointment to this post is made from the Legal 
Officers in Grade I considering the experience and merit. Where qualified officers are not available in the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine for the post of Chief Legal Officer, recruitment will be done from the Legal Officers 
in Grade i of Executive service category in the Public service / Provincial Public service considering the experience and 
merit.
02. Terms of engagement :
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. you should contribute to the Widows’ and orphans’  
Pension scheme / Widowers’ and orphans’ Pension scheme as prescribed by the Government from time 
to time.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2952
 (ii) Officers appointed to this post are subject to an acting period of one year.
 (iii) this appointment shall be subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public service commission, 
Establishments code of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka, financial Regulations of the 
Government and other departmental orders.
03. Qualifications :  
 3.1 Professional Qualifications :
  Should be a Legal Officer in Grade I belongs to the Executive Service Category in the Public Service / 
Provincial Public service.
 3.2 Physical Fitness :
  Every candidate should physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island and to 
perform the duties of the post.
 3.3 Other Qualifications :
 • should be a citizen of sri Lanka
 • should be excellent in character
 • Should have been confirmed in the service
 • Should have satisfied all required qualifications as at the closing date of applications
 • Should be proficient in English Language.
04. Age Limit.– Not applicable.
05. Salary Scale.– in terms of the schedule i of the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, 
this post is entitled to the monthly salary scale of Rs.76, 175-16x2, 170- Rs. 110,895/-(sL-1-2016) (in Grade 1). you will 
be paid salaries according to the provisions of the above circular and schedule ii of the same.
06. the interview conducted for checking the eligibility will be based on the following marking scheme :
Key areas for which marks are given
Maximum
marks
Minimum
marks
required for 
selection
01. Experience
5 marks for one year, 2.5 marks for 06 months and 1.25 marks for 03 months 
will be given for service period in Grade i
02. merit
(i) Educational Qualification (Highest)
   - a degree in Law obtained from a recognized university
   - maximum for Phd
   - maximum for Post- Graduate degree or m.Phil
   - maximum for Post- Graduate diploma
(ii) Legal capacity
   - solve a legal problem given at the time of interview
   - Knowledge on modem trends in the field of Law
(iii) Performance at the interview
   - General knowledge and intelligence
   - ability to explain ideas clearly and personality
12
10
08
07
03
05
05
50
30
10
10
a candidate
who secures
the highest
marks on the
performance
at the interview
conducted for 
checking the
eligibility will 
be recruited

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2953
07. Identity of Candidates.– only the candidates who have submitted applications which are complete in all respects 
will be called for the interview conducted to check the eligibility.
Originals and duly certified copies of all certificates should submitted at the interview.
any of the following should be submitted to prove the identity of the candidate at the interview :
 1. National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons.
 2. Valid passport
08. Method of application :
 (i) Specimen form of the application is appended to this notification. Application should be prepared on A4 size 
paper in such a way that No. 01 to 05 appear on the lst page, No. 06 to 08 appear on the second page and the 
rest on the other pages. The applicant should fill the application in his/her own handwriting.
 (ii) candidate’s signature in the application form should be attested by a Principal of a Government school/ 
Justice of the Peace/ Commissioner for Oaths / Attorney - at - Law / Notary Public / Commissioned Officer 
in tri forces or an officer in the Public Service whose monthly consolidated salary is Rs.47, 615/- .
 (iii) applicants who are already in the Public service or Provincial Public service should send their applications 
through the respective Head of the department.
 (iv) Applications not complying with the specimen form of application appended to this notification will be 
rejected. No complaint about loss or delay of applications in the post will be considered.
09. Furnishing false information.– if any information furnished in the application is found to be false or incorrect 
before recruitment, your candidature will be cancelled. if so found after recruitment, you are liable to be dismissed from 
service subject to relevant action.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala 
notification shall prevail.
11. The decision of the Appointing Authority will be final in respect of filling the vacancy.
by the order of Health service committee of Public service committee,
 WaSaNtha Perera,
 secretary,
 ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine.
'suwasiripaya',
No. 385, Rev. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10, 
17th august, 2019.
sPEcimEN foRm of aPPLicatioN 
reCruitmeNt to the PoSt of Chief legal offiCer beloNgiNg to the exeCutiVe SerViCe Category of the miNiStry of 
health, NutritioN aNd iNdigeNouS mediCiNe -2019
 district of Residence :
01.  1.1 Name with initials : mr./mrs./miss :–––––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals) Ex. : mr./mrs./miss. siLVa a.a.b.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2954
  1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals) 
  1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
02.  2,1 address (Private) :–––––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
  2.2 address (Private) :–––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil)
  2.3 Address (Official) :–––––––––––––.
   (in English block capitals)
  2.4 Address (Official) :–––––––––––––.
   (in sinhala/tamil) 
   (Officer in the Public Service/Provincial Public 
Service/should mention their official address. 
any change of the address should be informed 
immediately)
  2.5 telephone Number (Personal) :–––––––––––––.
   Telephone Number (Official) :–––––––––––––.
  2.6 E-mail address :–––––––––––––.
03.  3.1 date of birth : 
  y ear month  date
  3.2 age as at the closing date of applications :
   y ears :––––––,  months :––––––,  days :–––––––.
04. National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
05. Gender (male/female) :–––––––––––––.
06. Qualifications : date of appointment to the post of Legal 
Officer in Grade I of the Executive Service Category : 
  6.1 Experience  :–––––––––––––.
  6.2   (i) Relevant Educational Qualification/  
   Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
07. Certification of the Applicant :
i hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me in 
this application are true and correct. i am also aware that if 
any of the particulars in this application is found to be false 
or incorrect before selection my application will be rejected 
and, i am liable to be dismissed from service without any 
compensation if any such information is found to be false or 
incorrect after selection. 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant. 
date  :–––––––––––––.
08. attestation of the signature of the applicant :
i  certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss ........................... 
is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her 
signature in my presence on ............................
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of the attestor.
  (Place rubber stamp)
full Name  :–––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
address  :–––––––––––––.
09. Certification of the Head of the Department/Institution 
(only for the applicants in the Public service/Provincial 
Public service) :
i certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss ...................
............. is serving in this department/Provincial council/
institute from .......................... and holds a permanent 
and pensionable/temporary post and he/she has earned all 
increments during the past ............................... years and has 
not been subject to a disciplinary punishment of any kind 
(except warning) and all the particulars given above were 
checked referring to the records at this office and found 
correct. further, i hereby state that he/she will/will not be 
released from service if selected, and that he/she placed the 
signature in my presence on ....................................
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of the Head of the 
  department/institute.
Name  :–––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
date  :–––––––––––––.
department/institute  :–––––––––––––.
(Place rubber stamp)
09–143

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2955
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION, DISASTER mANAGEmENT AND LIvESTOCk 
DEvELOPmENT
First  Efficiency  Bar  Examination  for  Officers  in  Sri  Lanka  Administrative  Service,  Sri  Lanka  
Engineering  Service,  Sri  Lanka  Scientific Service,  Sri  Lanka  Architects' Service,  Sri Lanka 
Accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service -  2018 (I) and Second Efficiency Bar Examination 
for Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri Lanka 
Planning Service - 2018(II)
it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri 
Lanka Planning Service 2018(I) and Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, 
sri Lanka accountants' service and sri Lanka Planning service - 2018(ii), shall be held in colombo during weekends from 
05th of October 2019 to 26th of October 2019, by the director General, sri Lanka institute of development administration, 
under the supervision and direction of ministry of Public administration disaster management and Livestock development. 
02. The language test relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examinations which is due to be held in respect of the above 
services shall be as follows: 
Serial No. Name of the examination Code
1. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative  Service  sLas 1
2. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering  Service sLEs
3 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service sLss
4 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service  sLars
5 1st  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service  sLacs i
6 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service sLPs i
7 other services which can be apply for the above examination other
8 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative  Service sLas 2
9 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service  sLacs 2
10 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service  sLPs 2
  
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is 
compulsory to pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period. 
04. this examination shall be conducted by the director General of sri Lanka institute of development 
administration and the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to conducting 
the examination. candidates shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority for violation of 
these rules and regulations. 
05. applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk. the official web site of the 
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting the 
relevant examination by entering the "Examination division" from the sub menu “Examination” at the right side of web 
site’s main page. 
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 06.09.2019 up to 12.00 midnight on 
23.09.2019. 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2956
06. examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not to pay the 
examination fees. at such occasions where a candidate, who has made application, has not sat for the examination even 
after issuing an admission by sri Lanka institute of development administration that should be considered as a sitting for 
the examination. 
Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service 
should pay the examination fee considering that the first Efficiency  bar Examination as one Examination and second 
Efficiency Bar examination as another examination. Accordingly, Rs. 1,000 should be paid if it is applied for more than 
one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 1,000 should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of 
the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 500 should be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination and Rs. 500 should be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. 
The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service 
should pay Rs. 1,000, if they applying for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Rs. 500 should 
be paid, if they are sitting for only one subject.  
Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the island (expect sub post offices) to be credited to the 
"sLida" account and the number of the receipt issued shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When 
filling the application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85) for payment of money to 'SLIDA' account, "SLIDA" 
should be mentioned as the recipient. in the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination shall be indicated at the 
place for the recipient's address. (the code names should be as mentioned in section 02).
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including the name of the applicant as 
the remitter and the N.i.c. Number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter. 
07. Getting Admissions for the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri 
Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service 
and Sri Lanka Planning Service and Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
accountants' service and sri Lanka Planning service. 
When the application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. candidates shall be able to get their admission card of the examination by way 
of following the instructions indicated in the web page to which the candidate shall have the access once the application duly 
perfected is sent online. The candidate shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified by the 
respective Head of the Department or a deputy officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card certified 
in this manner shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the examination. A copy of admission card certified as for that manner 
shall be submitted to the Heads of the Departments for the purpose of attaching to the personal file of the candidates. 
Note.– The private address, place of work and the official address shall be clearly included when filling the 
application online. 
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone 
Number 011 - 5980236 of sri Lanka institute of development administration. communication can be made through this 
line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.15 p.m during working days of the week from 06.09.2019 to 23.09.2019.
09. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number                        
011- 5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.– candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose, one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2957
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of  Persons. 
 (ii)  a valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of sri Lanka institute of development administration. 
11. the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English media. if it is found that a candidate has appeared 
for the examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant shall be cancelled.  
a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.
12. Scheme of examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows. Duration 
of each question paper is three (03  hours). at least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each subject by a candidate to pass 
this Efficiency Bar Examination.
 12.1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service : (Appendix "G" of Sri 
Lanka administrative service minute published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1,842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
 
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
  The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination are given below : 
Serial 
Number
Subject Duration Subject 
Number
01
Law
constitutional  Law  and administrative Law 03 hours 01 -i
the Legal systems of sri Lanka 03 hours 01 -ii
criminal Law and Law of Evidence 03 hours 01-iii
02 administration  03 hours 02-i
03 Economics and social science 03 hours 03
04 financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector 03 hours 04
12.1.1 Law
  three question papers based on the following: 
  first (i) question paper -
  Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01-I) (100 marks)
 
 (i) the structure of the constitution of sri Lanka and the Republic constitution of 1978 with the historical 
development.
 (ii) the Executive, President of the Republic, Prime minister, cabinet of ministers and Public service. 
 (iii) administration of Justice. 
 (iv) Judicial control over administration. 
 (v) directive Principles of the state Policy and fundamental duties. 
 (vi) delegated Legislation.
 (vii) Liability of the state and the Public authorities. 
 (viii) fundamental Rights.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2958
  Second (II) question paper -
  The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-II) (100 marks)
 (i)  administration of Justice
 (ii) the Legal History of sri Lanka 
 (iii)  the organization of the courts 
 (iv)  the courts ordinance of sri Lanka (chapter 6) 
 (v)  administration of Justice act, No. 44 of 1971
  Third (III) question paper -
  Criminal Law and Law of Evidence (Subject No. 01-III) (100 marks)
 (i)  the Penal code 
 (ii)  the Evidence ordinance. 
  A candidate shall be required to obtain a minimum of thirty five (35%) of marks in each paper and 
an average of forty percent (40%) in order to pass the subject of law. 
12.1.2. administration (subject No. 02-i -100 marks) 
  a  question paper based on the following: 
 (i)  Office and Field Organization and Methods of organization.
 (ii)  following chapters of the Establishment code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii). Procedural Rules of the Public service commission.
 12.1.3.  Economics and Sociology (Subject No. 03 - 100 marks) 
   this question paper consists of two parts.
   first (1) part - Economics
 (i)  Principles of Economics with special reference to theories of Value, Production and distribution; 
 (ii)  money, Production and distribution
 (iii)  Economic background of sri Lanka and policies, strategies and programmes relevant to economic 
development with special reference to the Economic structure of sri Lanka. 
  Second (II) part - Sociology
 (i)  social structure, organization and functions; 
 (ii)  Human Relationships and Groupings; 
 (iii)  Kinship, marriage and the family; 
 (iv)  Rural and Urban society; 
 (v)  Social Stratification and Differentiations; 
 (vi)  social control; 
 (vii)  culture, Religion, morals and Values. 
a candidate shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) marks for each part to pass the subject 
of Economics and sociology. 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2959
12.1.4. Financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector (Subject No. 04 - 
   100 marks)  
   a  question paper based on the following :-
   (i) financial control in sri Lanka :
     constitutional Provisions Relating to the management of Public finance
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     meaning of fund 
     the consolidated fund and its operation 
     meaning and methods of appropriation 
     contingencies fund 
     other funds and their operation                
     Government Revenue 
     Powers and functions of the minister of finance 
     Powers and functions of the treasury 
     Warrants and imprest authority 
     auditor General, his Powers and functions 
     committee on Public accounts (coPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
   (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting  
  Officers, their Powers and Functions/accountability and nature of accountability.
   (iii) internal audit 
   (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and management; 
     Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
     Identification of Public Policies, Goals Targets and work Programmes 
     Planning and appraisal of development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of 
      them 
     formulation and finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
   (v)  Variations of approved Estimates of Expenditure
     application of Virement Procedure
     management of Public sector cadres and salaries 
     total cost Estimates and Revisions 
     supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and Waivers of government properties 
   (vii)  miscellaneous accounting matters 
   (viii)  delegation of functions for financial control 
   (ix)  custody of Public money and bank accounts Procedure 
   (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
     Government Procurement manual
     Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule "iii" of Sri 
Lanka Engineering service minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1836/6 dated 11.11.2013).
 The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2960
Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
serial No. Subject Duration Subject Number
01 administration 03 hours 02-ii
02 financial systems 03 hours 05-i
03 department/Establishment methodologies since this examination is conducted by the  
 Head of the institution, particulars in this  
 regard are not published in this notification.
the minimum marks required to pass each subject is 40.
12.2.1  Administration (Subject No. 02-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering service based on v olume I of 
the Establishments Code published in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume ii of the Establishments 
code published in 1999 and the Procedural Rules of Public service commission (subjected to timely 
revisions).
 12.2.2 Financial systems (Subject No. - 05-I - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering service based on all the chapters in 
financial Regulations published in 1992 except chapter iX and X and criteria for National Procurement 
Guidelines (subjected to timely revisions).
12.3  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service Minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014) and 
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
architects' service minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014).
 subjects of these examinations are as follows :
Subject Duration Subject Number
financial systems 03 hours 05-ii
administration 03 hours 02-iii
departmental Regulations since this examination is conducted by the  
 Head of the institution, particulars in this  
 regard are not published in this notification.
 12.3.1 Financial Systems (Subject No. 05-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper based on the following : 
   (i) financial control in sri L anka :
     constitutional Provisions Relating to Public financial management 
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     Definition of Fund 
     consolidated fund and its function
     object and methodologies of appropriation 
     contingent fund 
     other funds and their functions                
     state Revenue

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2961
     Powers and role of the finance minister
     Powers and role of the General treasury
     Warrants and imprest authority 
     Powers and role of the auditor General 
     committee on Public accounts (coPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
 (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers on State Revenue, their 
powers and role/accountability and the nature of their responsibilities.
 (iii) internal audit 
   (iv) Planning and management of Public Expenditure : 
     Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
     Identification of Public Policies, objectives, Targets and Programmes
     Planning of development Projects and Programmes and Prioritizing the evaluation
     Preparation of annual estimate on income and expenditure and taking final decisions. 
   (v)  making changes of approved Estimates :
     implementation of Virement Procedure
     management of cadre and salaries of public sector
     total cost Estimates and making Revisions to the same 
     supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and omissions of state properties
   (vii)  Various accounting activities
   (viii)  Entrusting tasks for financial management 
   (ix)  custody of Public finance and Procedure of bank accounts
   (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
     code of Procurement Procedure Government
     Procurement Guidelines of the Government
   Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject.
 12.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 02-III - 100 marks)
  a  question paper is based on the following. 
 (i) following chapters of the Establishment code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, 
XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii and XLViii. 
 (ii) Procedural Rules of Public service commission published in the Gazette extraordinary             
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
12.4 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : (The appendix 03 
of the service minute of sri Lanka accountants' service published on the Gazette extraordinary dated 
10.09.2010 and No. 1670/33)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2962
Subjects of the First Efficiency bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration (Hours) Subject No.
01 Government financial Procedures 03 Hours 06
02 Law and management 03 Hours 07
03 administration 03 Hours 02-iV
04 Report writing and Presenting information to management 03 Hours 08
 12.4.1 Government Financial Regulations (Subject No. 06) (100 marks) :
  candidates will be tested on the application of financial Regulations and treasury circulars in 
government transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, 
foreign aid, annual and supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders, imprests and 
advances, financial sanctions, the account of the Island, functional and economic classifications, 
programme and performance budgeting, functions of the minister of finance. the General treasury, 
the ministry of Planning, the secretaries, the auditor General and the Public accounts committee. 
 12.4.2 Law and management (subject No. 07) (100 marks)
Law - Definition of Law
  Legal systems of sri Lanka
  courts systems of sri Lanka
  Law of contract
  Law of agency
  sale of goods
  Hire purchase
  Negotiable instruments
  Guarantee of securities
  insurance
management - introduction to management
  functions and skills of managers
  Planning process and setting organizational levels
  organization structure 
  Human resource management
  Peformance evaluation 
  Promotion
  motivation
  Leadership
  communication
  decision making
  Conflict resolution
  Change Management Conflicts Management Time Management
  Quality circles and Production and Result
  management ethics and responsibilities
 12.4.3 administration : (subject No. : 02-iV) (100 marks) 
  chapters of the Establishments code Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XV , XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, 
XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii.
  Public service commission rules and procedure V olume i-Vi.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2963
 12.4.4 Report writing and presenting information to the management (subject No. 08) (100 marks)
  importance of accuracy, of timeliness and of perfection of management information, dealing
  with reference information
  Periodic and ad-hoc reports
  Writing minutes of meetings and notes
  structure of management reports
  important results that should be highlighted 
  interpretation of results
  suggesting variations
  Use of statistical name systems in data analysis
  comparison of performance
  Use of ratios and percentages in management reports
  diagrammatic representation
  Listening to professional talks and lectures
  Reporting lectures through speech
  Panel discussions
  seminar abilities
  delivering a speech
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the each subject to pass. 
12.5 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in sri Lanka Planning service : (the appendix c service 
minute of the sri Lanka Planning service published on the Gazette extraordinary dated 10.09.2010 and 
No. 1670/32).
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration (Hours) Subject No.
01 Planning concepts, methodology and Planning institutions 03 09
02 Economic analysis and statistics 03 10
03 Project Planning, implementation monitoring and Evaluation 03 11
04 institutional Regulations and Public sector financial methods 03 12
05 English Language 03 13
 12.5.1 the examination should be passed within the prescribed time period as per the provisions in the 
Service Minute and the Letter of Appointment and an officer is allowed to appear for all the papers 
at one sitting or different sittings for each subject. 
Scheme of examination : 
 12.5.2 Planning concepts, Methodology and Planning Institutions (Subject No. 09) (100 Marks)
 (i) National objectives and priorities and planning policy framework and programmes for their 
achievement. 
 (ii) methodology for National Planning, major problem areas in planning, public participation 
and mobilization of resources etc.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2964
 (iii) Nature and sources of data for National Planning, collection of data, presentation of 
interpretation and analysis, field supervision and investigations demographic concepts, 
economic projections and policy analysis. 
 12.5.3 Economic Analysis and Statistics (Subject No. 10) (100 Marks)
 (i) Principles of economics with special emphasis on the theories of production and distribution. 
 (ii) finance, banking systems, international financial methods and trade.
 (iii) analysis of monetary, monetary trade and tariff Policies.
 (iv) Economic structure of sri Lanka.
 (v) Review of the Economy.
 (vi) assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower and other resources including 
foreign aid and their utilization. 
 (vii) Economics and social incidents.
 (viii) Economic analysis and basis statistical concepts and methods used in Planning.
 (ix) Principles of Benefit/Cost Analysis.
 12.5.4 Project Planning, Implementation, Supervision and Monitoring (Subject No. 11) (100 Marks)
 (i) Planning, Identification and defining Projects and Project Planning Policies, theories, selection 
of location, Estimation of technology and cost and benefits, Technical, financial and economic 
analysis.
 (ii) Project implementation and operation/supervision, proper and timely implementation of 
projects and programmes, preparation of detailed operational plans and implementation 
schedules, coordination of monitoring and progress control and follow up action. 
 (iii) Evaluation of projects, assessment of effectiveness of projects and programmes analysis of 
benefits in relation to costs. 
 12.5.5 Institution Regulations and Financial Methods of the Public Sector (Subject No. 12)  
(100 marks)
 (i) Government financial Regulations, V olume 1 (except chapter X)
 (ii) chapters Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XV, XXiii, XXV, XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XLVii, XLViii chapters i to Vi of the Public service commission procedure 
and rules. 
 (iii) Financial Control of Sri Lanka.– statutory Provisions relating to Public finance management, 
Parliamentary control over Public finance, consolidated fund and its operation. aim of 
appropriation and appropriation methods, state revenue, powers and function of minister 
of finance, powers and the function of the treasury, Warrant and imprest authority, auditor 
General, his powers and function, Public Expenditure committee, Public Enterprises 
committee. 
 (iv) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting officers of 
state Revenue their powers and function. 
 (v) Planning and Management of State Expenditure, Identification of Objectives and Functions of 
Organizations, Preparation of Annual Estimates and Expenditure and taking final decisions, 
Effecting changes in the approved Estimates of Expenditure, implementation of Virement 
Procedure, management of cadres in the Public sector, supplementary Estimates. 
 (vi) Government Procurement Procedure.- Procuring Goods, services and Work, composition of 
tender boards and technical Evaluation committees, Powers and function of appointment, 
tender Evaluation Procedure, management of foreign funded projects. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2965
 12.5.6 English Language (Subject No. 13) (100 Marks)
 (i) a  written examination in English Language will be held to test the academic and professional 
knowledge of English of candidates in relation to subject of Planning, development and 
management. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the each subject.
 12.6 Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service : (Appendix 
"h" of the service minute of sri Lanka administrative service published in the Gazette Extraordinary                          
No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
  the subjects for this examination are as follows :
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 Economic and social Policy (With special reference to sri 
Lanka)
03 hours 14
02 Process of development administration (With special 
reference to sri Lanka)
03 hours 15
03 Use of information and communication technology for 
management
03 hours 16
04 Proficiency in the link language (English) 03 hours 17
 12.6.1 Economic and social policies (With special reference to sri Lanka) (subject No. 14) (100 marks)
  this question paper is based on matters affecting the formulation of economic and social policies 
using principles of Economics and social sciences in the context of recent economic, social and 
political history of sri Lanka.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.6.2 Process of Development Administration (With special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 15) 
(100 marks)
  this question paper is based on the functioning and inter-relationships of institutions entrusted with 
the responsibility of development administration with special reference to matters mentioned below:
 (i) state machinery of sri Lanka,
 (ii) constitutional background of the state machinery of sri Lanka,
 (iii) Provincial councils and Local Government institutions,
 (iv) People's organizations,
 (v) Public corporations.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.6.3 Use of information and communication technology for management (Subject No. 16) (100 marks)
  this is a practical test conducted by the sri Lanka institute of development administration to test 
the knowledge of the applicant on following subject areas. 
 (i) importance of the use of information and communication technology for state institutes,
 (ii) data analysis and preparation of reports,

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2966
 (iii) data base m anagement and retrieval of information,
 (iv) Use of information and communication technology in project management,
 (v) Preparation of management information systems.
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.6.4 Proficiency in the English Language (Subject No. 17) (100 marks)
  scheme of Evaluation : Written Examination 
  content : the following subject areas are suggested for the candidate's reference :
  communication skills 
  the candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following language 
functions.
  – General Greetings and introductions
  – Giving and getting information
  – advising, suggesting and expressing opinions
  – describing Events and situations
  – telephone skills
  – interviewing skills
  – Expression skills
  – Listening and Note taking skills
  Writing skills
  the knowledge of the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study. 
  – internal modes of communication
  – formal correspondence skills
  – Writing descriptions/Explanations
  – Grammar
  – summary Writing skills
  – Report Writing skills
  – meeting minutes/agendas/invitations
  comprehension skills
  candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation 
is expected.
  – Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text
  – Reading and interpretation (verbal/written)
  – Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage.
  
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.7 Second Efficiency Bar examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : 
  (appendix 04 of the service minute of sri Lanka accountants' service published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 1670/33 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2967
  The subjects for the second efficiency bar examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 management accountancy 03 hours 18
02 Public financial management 03 hours 19
03 management and organization 03 hours 20
 12.7.1 management accountancy (subject No. 18) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  control theory on accounting - feedback - open and closed. types of ideal standard costs, 
principles of performance standards and their application, revision of standards, learning circles 
and determination of motivation, analysis of variations and sub variations, analysis of significance, 
presentation and investigation of variances, behavioral aspects of control accounting, concepts 
of budgeting, administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, 
master and supplementary budgets, budget centers, management participation, intervention and 
motivation in the preparation of budgets, the budget period and identification of the principal budget 
factor. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.7.2 Public financial management (subject No. 19) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  Role of the Government accountant.
  Knowledge of Constitutional and Legal Framework of public finance Institutional framework, 
central Government, Public corporations, Local Government institutions, co-operative movements 
etc.
  Parliamentary control, functions of the treasury, ministry of Planning, Estimates committee, 
auditor General, Public accounts committee, consolidated fund, Problems of Parliamentary 
control. 
  financial circle, Preparation of Planning programmes, Preparations of budget, approval of funds, 
accounting, reporting, monitoring and auditing. 
  Project evaluation, service prices and use of statistical data, payment theory and deciding on the 
anticipated value. 
  Cost benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal effective ratio, project ranking, economic, 
financial and management aspects of project formulation and evaluation, successful submission of 
projects. 
  t echniques of programming, use of network analysis, allocation of resources, problems of 
transport, deterioration of resources due to usage or with the passage of time, replacement of 
resources which do not deteriorate but become useless due to partial usage or due to passage of 
time, performance budgets, Establishment and use of basic methods, measurement of performance, 
types of measurements, selection of units and measurements, types of measurements and analysis of 
performance. 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2968
  Programme budgeting, programme structure, classifications according to functions, programme 
work, expenditure projects and expenditure items, economics and activity related classification. 
  Financial control systems, level of responsibilities, internal control and financial regulations, internal 
audit, performance auditing, management auditing, variance analysis, decisions on providing 
capital budgets, long term planning and it's importance, forecasting, risk analysis of accuracy and 
limitations, decision trees, probability factors. 
  demand on capital, issues in estimating earnings and effectiveness of capital investments identify 
and allocate for risk factors when prioritize and standardize projects. Pay back determinants, 
calculating of accounting rate of return, net present value and DCF yields, influence of taxation and 
incentives, investment appraisal, Project cost control and post audit. 
  decisions on capacities, product mix, make or buy, alternative methods of manufacture, shut down 
problems, pricing policies and contribution theory, influence of customer demand, patterns, elasticity 
of demand, marketing strategy, techniques of evaluation of performance, profitability criteria and 
ratios. 
  analysis of return on capital, management of working capital. 
  financial control of Government commercial Enterprises, budgeting, management reporting, 
Interpretation of financial statements and the use of financial ratios. 
  Pricing in Public Enterprises : 
  accounting plan and its contents, government reports and public undertakings. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.7.3 management and organization (subject No. 20) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  questions will be set to test the knowledge of the candidate on management and principles of 
organization, use of these principles with regard to the problems and issues in the public sector and 
the knowledge on new management strategies and techniques. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.8 Second  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service : 
  (appendix "d" of the service minute of sri Lanka Planning service published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No. 1670/32 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 12.8.1 The second efficiency bar examination shall consist of the following subjects. 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 techniques of development Planning 03 hours 21
02 basic macro Economics 03 hours 22
03 current international Economic and Political crises and 
their impact on the sri Lankan Economy
03 hours 23

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2969
 12.8.2 it is compulsory to answer all the questions in a question paper. 
  Syllabus :
 i. development Planning techniques (subject No. 21) (100 marks)
 (i) sWot  analysis
 (ii) Problem tree
 (iii) Logical framework analysis
 (iv) Cost benefit analysis
 (v) Pay back method
 (vi) Net present value
 (vii) internal rate of return
 (viii) application of shadow price. 
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 ii. basic macro Economics (subject No. 22) (100 marks)
 (i) National accounts
 (ii) Rate of Economic Growth
 (iii) balanced National Revenue
 (iv) multiplier effect
 (v) Inflation
 (vi) Rate of interest
 (vii) an introduction to Public fiscal Policy
 (viii) an introduction to fiscal Policy
 (ix) business circle
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
 iii. current international Economic crises and their impact on sri Lankan Economy (subject No. 23) 
(100 marks) 
  current international Economic crises and their impact on sri Lankan Economy.
  (answers have to be given on topics which have a timely relevance to emerging world economic 
conditions)
  Note.– The candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
13. the time table of this examination is as follows : 
 
SR. 
No.
Name of the 
examination
Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
01
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative service
constitutional Law and 
administrative Law
01-i 05.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Legal systems of sri Lanka 01-ii 05.10.2019 12.30 p. m. -3.30 p. m.
criminal Law and Evidence Law 01-iii 06.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-i 06.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m. 
Economics and sociology 03 12.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
financial management in the public 
sector and procurement process 
04 12.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m. 

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2970
SR. 
No.
Name of the 
examination
Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
02
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
Engineering service
financial systems 05-i 06.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-ii 06.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
03
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Scientific 
service
financial systems 05-ii 05.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-iii 05.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
04
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of sri Lanka architects' 
service
financial systems 05-ii 05.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-iii 05.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
05
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ service
Government financial Regulations 06 12.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Law and management 07 12.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
administration 02-iV 19.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Report writing and Presenting 
information to management
08 19.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
06
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of sri Lanka Planning 
service
Planning concepts, methodology and 
Planning institutions
09 12.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Economic analysis and statistics 10 12.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
Project Planning, implementation 
monitoring and Evaluation
11 19.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
institutional Regulations and Public 
sector financial methods
12 19.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
English Language 13 20.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
07
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative service
Economic and social Policy (With 
special reference to sri Lanka)
14 20.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Process of development 
administration (With special 
reference to sri Lanka)
15 20.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
Use of information and 
communication technology for 
management
16 date of the practical test to be held 
by shall be informed by the director 
General of sri Lanka institute of 
development administration after 
the closing date of applications
Proficiency in the Link Language 
(English)
17 26.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
08
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ service
management accountancy 18 20.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Public financial management 19 20.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
management and organization 20 26.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
09
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of sri Lanka Planning 
service
techniques of development Planning 21 20.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
basic macro Economics 22 26.10.2019 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
current international Economic 
crises and their impact on sri Lankan 
Economy
23 26.10.2019 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
  

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2971
14.  14.1  Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and Second 
Language test shall be made in the following manner. 
examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers in Sri Lanka 
administrative service
Law shall be a barrister or a lawyer at the supreme court 
of sri Lanka. shall have obtained a degree in Law 
from a University recognized by the University 
Grants commission. 
Note 1.– the exemption for Sociology or Economics in the First Efficiency Bar shall be made applicable to 
the officers of Sri Lanka Administrative Service recruited from 01.07.2012 to 23.12.2013 under the Service 
minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005.
 14.2  Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5 (b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers 
were required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes 
before the effective date of (01.07.2012) of the above Service Minute, the officers who are unable to pass 
the same as at 31.12.2014 should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examinations held under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects 
of each Efficiency Bar Examinations as per the existed service minute. Corresponding subjects are given in 
the following table :
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005 New Service Minute No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013
01. Law
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Law 
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
02. administration
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
administration
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
03. Economics or sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economics and sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
04. Public sector financial management
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Public sector financial management and 
Procurement  Process
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
05. English
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Link (English) Language Proficiency
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
06. Economic and social Policy
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economic and social Policy
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
07. development administration Process
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
development administration Process
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
08. management and organization methods
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Use of information and communication 
technology for management
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
 15. Issuance of results.– the results of all the candidates who have applied/sat for this examination shall be 
published in the web site of the Public administration, disaster management and Livestock development. Publishing of the 
results in the website of the ministry shall be considered as an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the circular 
Number sP/sb/1/13 and dated 13.10.2009 of secretary to H. E. the President on the e-documents and e-communication. 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2972
accordingly, Heads of departments shall include the 
relevant copies of the results sheets of the examination 
published in the website of the Ministry to the personal files 
of the officers. It is not allowed to re-scrutinize the results of 
the examination. 
16. any matter 
not referred to herein will be decided by  
secretary to the Public administration disaster management 
and Livestock development. 
17. in the event of any inconsistency between the sinhala, 
Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail. 
J. J. rathNaSiri,
 
 secretary,
Public administration, 
 disaster management and 
Livestock development. 
Public administration, disaster management and Livestock 
development, 
independence square,
colombo 07,
22nd of august, 2019.
09–239
––––––––––––––––––
EXCISE DEPARTMENT OF SRI LANKA 
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment        
to the Post of Excise Guard Driver -2019 
aPPLicatioNs are called from eligible sri Lankans 
with following qualifications for the Open Competitive 
Examination for Recruitment to the post of Excise Guard 
driver of the Excise department of sri Lanka. 
02.
 applications as per the specimen set out below 
should be sent to reach the commissioner General of 
Excise, Excise department of sri Lanka, No.353, Kotte 
Road, Rajagiriya; under the Registered Post on or before 
20.09.2019. t
op left hand corner of the envelope should 
be marked as “Post of Excise Guard driver”. incomplete 
applications and the applications which are received after 
the prescribed date will be rejected. Receipt of applications 
will not be acknowledged. 
03.
 Monthly Salary Scale.–  Grade ii: Rs. 29,540-7 ×300-
27×370 –41,630/-.will be placed on the monthly salary 
of Rs. 29,540. (First Efficiency Bar Examination should 
be passed before the salary step of Rs. 30,440/- of the 
aforementioned salary scale(R
s 01-2016 (P c) is exceeded 
as per the P.a.c.3/2016) 
04. Age Limit.– should be not less than 22 years and not
more than 30 years as at the closing date of applications. 
(age limit shall not apply for the applicants who are already 
employed in Public/ Provincial service) 
05. It is compulsory to fulfill all the qualifications
relevant to the post by all candidates by the closing date of 
applications given in the Gazette Notification. 
 i .  Educational Qualifications: - 
  should have passed six (06) subjects including 
mathematics with credit passes for sinhala/ tamil 
and for one other subject at the G. c.E ( ordinary 
Level) Examination in not more than 02 attempts, 
having passed 05 subjects at one attempt. 
 ii .  Professional Qualifications : - 
(a)  should have an adequate knowledge on Highway
code
(b)  should have a basic knowledge on motor
mechanics
(c)  should possess a valid Vehicle driving License
for driving of motor buses and motor coaches,
class “a” issued by the commissioner General
of Motor Traffic
 iii.  Service experience : - 
 03 years of service experience as a driver in a 
recognized institute subsequent to obtaining the 
driving License of the relevant category. 
 i V.  Physical Requirements :
(a) minimum height should be 5’4”.
(b) chest size should be 32(inches)when exhaled.
(c) Eyesight/ vision including that of identify items
without wearing spectacles or contact 
lenses,
should be at least 6/6 and 6/12.
(d) all candidates are required to possess adequate
physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of
the island and fulfill the duties of the post.
V. Other Requirements :
candidates should be sri Lankan citizens and should
possess an excellent character.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2973
06. Method of Recruitment. – Applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications shall be subjected to a written test and
professional test. these tests shall be conducted in sinhala and tamil languages.the language medium requested by you 
will not be allowed to change later. 
(i)  Written examination: Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Excise Guard driver of the Excise department
of sri Lanka :
Subjects Time Maximum Mark Pass Mark 
i. Highway Rules and motor mechanics 03 hours 100 40% 
ii. General test 01 hour 30 minutes 100 40% 
Syllabus for the examination : 
Question Paper Syllabus 
1. Highway Rules and motor  mechanics this paper tests the candidate’s knowledge of highway rules, 
technical field and the basic understanding of the defects related 
to said field. 
11. General test Paper this is a general question paper designed to measure the general 
knowledge of the applicants. 
Conducting Authority: appointing authority or an institute approved by the appointing authority. 
(ii)  Professional Test: this is a practical test to measure the applicant’s driving skills.
Maximum Marks Pass Marks
Driving Skills 40 40% 
(iii) out of the applicants who obtain highest marks at the written test, twice the number of vacancies will be called for
a physical fitness test and practical driving test, and in order of merit based on the marks obtained at said test and
the written examination, they will be selected to be appointed to the post of Excise Guard driver.
07. Service Conditions.– this post is permanent and pensionable. appointees will subject to the policy decision taken by
the Government, regarding the pension scheme in future. further, appointees should contribute to the Widow’s/Widower’s, 
orphans’ Pension scheme. appointees should pay the relevant contribution fee in the manner ordered by the Government 
from time to time. this is a post of the uniformed staff administered under the orders of the Excise department of sri Lanka. 
08. conditions stipulated in Procedural Rules of the Public service commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and the provisions of the Establishment code will be applicable. 
09. any matter not provided for in the scheme of Recruitment relevant to this appointment will be decided having
consulted the Public service commission. 
10. Applicant should send the photocopies of the following certificates (not originals) attached with the application.
(i) Birth Certificate
(ii) 02 Character Certificates obtained recently; one should be obtained from the Grama Niladhari / Divisional
secretary of one’s permanent residential area
(iii) Certificates in proof of Educational Qualifications.
(iv) Valid Driving License issued by the Commissioner General of Motor Traffic
(v) Acceptable certificates in proof of special qualifications.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2974
09. applicants who are called for the interview shall be
informed in writing. transport expenses; etc. shall not be 
paid in this respect. 
H.G. SumaNaSiNghe,
 commissioner General of Excise.
date: 30.08.2019.
sPEcimEN aPPLicatioN 
oPeN ComPetitiVe examiNatioN for reCruitmeNt to the 
PoSt of exCiSe guard driVer of the exCiSe dePartmeNt of 
Sri laNka - 2019 
01. (a)  full Name (in mother tongue) :–––––––––––––.
(b)  full Name (in English) :–––––––––––––.
(Use block Letters)
(c)  Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
03. Present address :
(a) Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
(b) Police station :–––––––––––––.
04. Whether you are a sri Lankan citizen by descend or a
registration (if by registration, attach  a copy of the said
certificate) :–––––––––––––.
05. civil status :–––––––––––––.
06. date of birth: -
 year :––––––––, month :––––––––, date :–––––––––.
07. age as at the closing date of applications as per the
Gazette Notification: -
 years :–––––––.  months :––––––––.  days :–––––––.
(Attach a copy of the Birth Certificate)
08. Educational Qualifications: (Attach copies of certificates
indicating the examinations  you have passed) :––––––.
09. Relevant documents should be enclosed with the
application form to prove the experience  gained as per
the paragraph 6 of the Gazette Notification :––––––––.
10. s ize of the chest (without inhaling): .................cm 
(inches: ……………) 
11. Height: cm: …………… feet: ……………………… 
(inches: ……………) 
12. the Language medium which you apply for the written
and professional examinations:
sinhala  tamil
13. Names, Post and address of two Referees: -
(i) ………………...............…………… 
(ii) ……………………………………… 
14. Give details if you had been /are employed in Public /
Provincial service; Give reasons if you have resigned
from said post :–––––––––––––.
15. c urrent Post and the Place of Work :–––––––––––––.
i do hereby declare and certify that the foregoing
details furnished by me are true and correct to the best of 
my knowledge and belief. similarly, i am aware that i am 
subject to termination of service without any compensation 
in the event that foregoing facts are found to be falsified and 
inaccurate after the assumption of duties. 
––––––––––––,
 signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
09–389
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRy OF LANDS & PARLIAMENTARy 
REfORmS
Survey Department of Sri Lanka
REcRUitmENt to Posts of sURVEy fiELd 
assistaNt iN PRimaRy sEmi sKiLLEd sERVicE 
catEGoRy WHicH REmaiN VacaNt iN sURVEy 
dEPaRtmENt of sRi LaNKa 
1. aPPLicatioNs are invited from qualified citizens of
sri Lanka to recruit to the post of primary semi skilled (PL
02 -2016) survey assistant which remains vacant in survey
department.
1.1   Post Grade Number of
Vacancies
 i. survey  Grade iii 35
 field assistant 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2975
1.2 Nature of duties of posts :
Post Main Functions
survey field 
assistant
• Giving assistance to draw the sketch relevant to the survey
• Preparation of survey lines as possible as to observe old boundaries,using Survey field books
and plans.
• Placing and opening of relevant land marks and pickets in area relevant to the survey.
• Giving Assistance to Survey duties relevant to finding out and placing of bench marks relevant
to the 
survey.
• Giving assistance to maintenance relevant to the safety and storing of instruments, use in the
field.
• Setting out of G.P.S. instruments in survey points in field For surveys which are done, using
of satellite technology including of theodolite, leveling instruments and new electronic total
stations.
• Giving assistance to all activities of placing of geo control points require for air photography.
• keeping of  targets properly that  require  for determination of location and level  of all stations
which made in surveys and giving assistance to collect data.
•
setting out of landmarks and bench marks using correct data in survey.
• setting out of landmarks relevant to blocking out of lands which basically done using the data in
survey field books and tracing entries.
• attending to any duty assigned by surveyor General or his representative as applicable to
surveying.
• Supervision of works of other survey field assistants is assigned for those who hold the post of
overseers in survey field assistant grade, in addition to the above duties.
2.
the number of appointments and the date of appointment will be decided by the appointing authority. the
appointing authority has power to fill all or any number of vacancies.
3. Salary.– in terms of public administration circular No. 03/2016 and dated 25-02-2016 monthly salary scale
applicable for the iii, ii, i and special grade of survey field assistants’ service is Rs. 25,250 -10 x 270 -10 x 300 - 10 x 
330 - 12 x 350 – Rs. 38,450 and  the  effective date of said salary will be 01.01.2020. salaries will be paid from the effective 
date of the appointment in terms of provision in schedule ii of above circular.
4. This post is permanent. The Pension entitled to the officers  appointed to the grade III of Survey Field Assistants’ 
service, by this examination will be determined in terms of the policy decision, on pension scheme taken by the government 
in future. this appointment is subject to 03 years probation period and selected candidates are prepared to serve in any part 
of the country and subject to general conditions applicable to appointment to the public service specified at the beginning 
of this Gazette notification.
5. Qualifications :
5.1  Educational qualifications :
(a)  should have passed the G. c.E. ordinary Level Examination in six (06) subjects with at least two
credits passes in not more than two sittings.
5.2  Professional qualifications :
 Should have obtained a skill at least in level two of National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) as 
determined by the tertiary and V ocational Education commission as appropriate for the post of survey 
field assistant.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2976
5.3  Minimum skills :
(a) Giving assistance to identify survey fields.
(b) attending to safety and maintenance of survey instruments and equipments.
5.4  Physical fitness :
 All candidates should have physically and mentally fit adequate to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to 
carry out duties in the post.
5.5  Other :
 i. s hould be a citizen of sri Lanka.
 ii. t he candidate should be of excellent moral character.
III. All the necessary qualifications for recruitment to the post should have been fulfilled in all respect as
at the closing date of calling for application.
 5.6 Age :
(a) the minimum age should be 18 years and maximum age should be 45 years as at the closing date of
applicable. (the maximum age limit is not applicable for those who hold a permanent post already
in the public service)
6. Furnishing false information.– In filling these vacancies, if a candidate is found not to have necessary
qualifications, his/her candidature can be cancelled. If any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is found to be false 
within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed by material fact he/she will be liable to dismissal from the 
public service.
7. Method of recruitment.– By a written examination and an interview to ascertain qualifications.
examination Procedure.– the examination will consists of written test consisting two subjects. this examination 
will be held in sinhala, tamil and English mediums. the medium applied for will not be allowed to change subsequently.
Maximum marks
obtainable
Minimum percentage of marks 
required For a pass Time
1. General Knowledge
2. intelligence
100
100
40%
40%
02 hours
01 hour and 15 minutes.
7.1  Syllabus  :
i. General knowledge: including the knowledge of environment of the candidate lives, political, social,
cultural, religious, and economical environment in Sri lanka, scientific and technological development,
internationally important general facts are expected by this paper.
ii.  intelligence test :a question paper made in multiple choice method, consists of questions to judge the
rationality,  ability of thought and ability to take decision, of the candidate.
8. Interview :
8.1 a fter an interview held by an interview board appointed by surveyor General only to ascertain whether
the qualifications have been fulfilled by the candidates, recruitment will be made as survey field assistant 
grade 
iii  in order of   merits  obtained by candidates in the written examination.
 t he number of candidates decided by the surveyor General as per the vacancies remain, will be called for 
the interview for ascertaining of  qualifications. 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2977
One month field and theoretical training will be given to 
those who recruited as survey field assistants by the training 
institute of survey department.  
9. Preparation and submission of applications :
(a) t he application should be prepared by the
applicant himself on a paper size 21×29( a4)
using both sides as per the specimen application 
appearing 
at the end of this notice. item No. 01 to 
05 should be on page 01, No. 06 – 08.2 on page 
02, No. 09 – 13 on page 03, and No. 14 – 15.2 
should be on page 04.
(b) c andidates who are already employed in public
service should forward their applications through
their heads of the departments before the closing 
date of application.
(c) a pplications should be in the language in which
the candidates in eligible to sit the examination.
(d) a pplications which are not complying with the
specimen form, examination fees have not been
paid before the prescribed date, of improper 
filling, will be rejected without any notice. 
candidates should bear consequences of improper 
filling of applications. It would be useful to retain 
a photocopy of the application. 
it is responsibility 
of the candidate to find out whether the completed 
application complies with the application specified 
in the notice. 
if not, application will be rejected.
(e) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
complaints for any loss of applications in the post
will not be considered.
9.1  Only those who have fulfilled qualifications 
prescribed in chapter 5 of Gazette Notification  
as at the closing date of application should 
apply. 
surveyor General will allow candidates 
who have paid specified examination fees and 
submitted application on or before 27.09.2019 
to sit the competitive examination. 
issuing 
of admission card shall not be deemed as the 
applicant possesses qualifications to the post or 
to sit the examination. 
9.2  the envelope containing the application should 
be clearly marked “Recruitment to posts of 
primary semi skilled - 
survey  field assistant” 
on the top left hand corner.
9.3  the signature of the applicant in the 
application should be certified by a principal 
of a Government 
school/ Justice of the Peace/ 
commissioner of oaths / attorney – at – law/ 
Commissioned Officer in the Army / an Officer 
in Police 
service hold a Gazetted post or an 
Officer who hold a permanent post in public 
service in tertiary or senior level in terms of the 
grading of Public 
service circular No. 3/2016.
10. examination Fees.– Examination fee is Rs. 800/=.
this fee should be paid at the cashier of the surveyor 
General office in No. 150, Kirula road, Colombo 05 or at 
any of District Survey Office or at Institute of Surveying 
and mapping – 
diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted 
in the relevant cage in the application form. ( it is advisable 
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee 
is not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. 
applications without cash 
receipts will be rejected.
11. Submission of application.– completed application
should be sent by registered post to reach to the following 
address on or before 27.09.2019 :
senior superintendent of survey ( Examination),
Surveyor General's Office,
colombo 05.
12. Appearing for the examination.– Every candidate
should hand over their admission card to the supervisor 
of the Examination 
centre. a candidate who fails to hand 
over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the 
examination. 
the candidate should sit the examination at 
the examination hall assigned to him.
13. Identity of candidate. – candidates should prove
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each paper they sit. any of the following 
documents will be accepted for their purpose.
 i. t he National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of persons.
 ii. a valid postal identity card issued by the post 
master general.
 iii. a valid passport.
14. Any matter not specified here, will be determined by
the surveyor general.
   s. m. P. P. SaNgakkara, 
 surveyor General.
Surveyor General's Office,
colombo 05,
02nd september, 2019.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2978
SPeCimeN aPPliCatioN form
reCruitmeNt to PoStS of SurVey field aSSiStaNt iN Primary 
Semi Skilled SerViCe Category WhiCh remaiN VaCaNt iN
SurVey dePartmeNt of Sri laNka 
For office use only
01. medium of examination :
(sinhala – s    tamil – t    English – E)
(indicate the letter/code in given cages)
02. Name with initials (mr./mrs./miss) :
 in sinhala  :––––––––––––––.
 in English  :––––––––––––––.
02.1  Names denoted by initials (in legible letters)
 in sinhala :––––––––––––––.
 in English :––––––––––––––.
03. National identity card No. :
04. d ate of birth :
      d ate : month : year : 
04.1 a ge as at the closing date of application :–––––.
05. Gender (male – m  /  female – f) :
06. Permanent address (in legible letters) :
 in sinhala :––––––––––––––.
 in English :––––––––––––––.
06.1 administrative district to which address belongs 
(see the schedule 1)
 district No.  :         
Name of the district  :
06.2 d ate from which the applicant is resident in the 
  d istrict:
07. t elephone No. : Permanent  :––––––––––––––.
mobile :––––––––––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :
08.1  details of G.c.E. ordinary Level Examination :
1st attempt:
(a) year and month of the examination :––––––.
(b) index No. :––––––––––––.
(c) subjects passed :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8
08.2  details of G.c.E. ordinary Level Examination :
 2nd attempt
(a) year and month of the examination :––––––.
(b) index No. :––––––––––––.
(c) subjects passed :––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1 5
2 6
3 7
4 8
09. Professional Qualifications: (Mention the NVQ
qualifications that have been obtained) :––––––––––––.
10. Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
11. Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any
offence :
 yes      No  
 11.1 if yes give details :––––––––––––.
12. details of Receipt which the examination fees paid
I. Office at which the payment made :–––––––––.
 ii. Receipt No. and date :––––––––––––.
 iii. a mount paid :––––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2979
13. Certificate of the candidate :
(a) i  declare that the particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and correct to the best of
my knowledge.
(b) i  am aware that if this declaration made by me is
found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit
for the appointment and if it is found after the 
appointment, 
i would be liable to dismissal from 
the service.
(c) t he cash receipt obtained for the payment of
………….. has been pasted in relevant cage.
(d) f urther, i declare that i agree to comply with the
rules and regulations laid down by the surveyor
General in respect of the examination.
(e) i  shall not subsequently change any of the
particulars mention here.
 –––––––––––––,
  signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––.
14. Certification of signature of the Applicant :
 i certify that mr./mrs./miss…………………… who is 
submitting  the application is personally known to me and 
that he/she placed his /her signature under  the section 13, 
in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
 signature of attester.
date :––––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
15. Recommendation of the Head of the department (only
for the applicant who are in Public /Provincial Public
service).
 15.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during
the five years immediately.
 Prior to the closing date of application.
 Work, behavior, attendance satisfactory / 
Unsatisfactory.
  all salary increments have been earned /have not 
been earned.
 Has not been /  has been subject to any disciplinary 
action.
 15.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can 
be / cannot be released from the post he holds at 
present.
––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of  the department.
Official Stamp.
date :––––––––––––.
Schedule 01
this schedule is relevant to the administrative districts 
to which address belongs on No.06.1 of the application.
Town/District Name  Town/ District No.
i. c olombo 01
ii. Gampaha 02
iii. Kaluthara 03
iv. Kandy 04
v. m atale 05
vi. Nuwara Eliya 06
vii. Galle 07
viii. m atara 08
ix. Hambanthota 09
x. Kurunagala 10
xi. Puttalam 11
xii. a nuradapura 12
xiii. Polonnaruwa 13
xiv. b adulla 14
xv. m onaragala 15
xvi. Rathnapura 16
xvii. Kegalle 17
xviii. a mpara 18
xix. b atticaloa 19
xx. t rincomalee 20
xxi. Jaffna 21
xxii. Vavuniya 22
09–536

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2980
NEW SCALES Of ChARGES fOR NOTICES AND ADvERTISEmENTS IN ThE
 “GAzETTE Of ThE DEmOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPubLIC Of SRI LANkA” 
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARy  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday)
1.  a ll Notices and advertisements are published at the risk of the advertisers.
2.  all Notices and advertisements by Private advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments to the Government
Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4.  c ash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by money
order, Postal order or cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of advertisements.
Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6.  to avoid errors and delay “copy”  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government servants and trade advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9.  advertisements purporting to be issued under orders of courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the supreme court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
Rs. cts.
one inch or less  ... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
 one column or 1/2 page of Gazette  ... ... ... 1,300  0
 two columns or one page of Gazette  ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11.  the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” is published every friday. day of publication is subject to alteration in
any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12.  all Notices and advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13.  all communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka should be 
addressed to the Government Printer, department of Government Printing, colombo 08.
14.  REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARy 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ... ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
section ii (advertising, Vacancies, tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
section iii (Patent & trade mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part ii (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part iii (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (stage carriage permits and book List)             ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part Vi (List of Jurors and assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12 months 
so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs.  cts.
Part i :
section i             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
section ii            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
section iii          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part i (Whole of 3 sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part ii                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part iii               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part iV (Notices of Provincial councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part Vi               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha, Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'09'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.09.2019
2981
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of  GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time 
is allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The ScheduLe
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
2019
 SEPTEmbER 06.09.2019 friday — 23.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  12.09.2019 thursday –– 30.08.2019 friday 12 noon
  20.09.2019 friday –– 06.09.2019 friday 12 noon
  27.09.2019 friday –– 12.09.2019 thursday 12 noon
 OCTObER 04.10.2019 friday — 20.09.2019 friday 12 noon
  11.10.2019 friday –– 27.09.2019 friday 12 noon
  18.10.2019 friday –– 04.10.2019 friday 12 noon
  25.10.2019 friday –– 11.10.2019 friday 12 noon
 NOvEmbER 01.11.2019 friday — 18.10.2019 friday 12 noon
  08.11.2019 friday –– 25.10.2019 friday 12 noon
  15.11.2019 friday –– 01.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  22.11.2019 friday –– 08.11.2019 friday 12 noon
  29.11.2019 friday –– 15.11.2019 friday 12 noon
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2019.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.