

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 08.07.2019
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2131$2 - 2019 cQ,s ui 08 jeks i÷od - 2019'07'08
No. 2131/2 - MONDAY,  JULY  08, 2019
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A  PG  4588— 3017 (07/2019)
L.D.B. 11/80(3)
FOOD  ACT,  No.  26 OF 1980
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine in terms of Section 32 of the Food
Act, No. 26 of 1980 in consultation with the Food Advisory Committee.
Dr. RAJITHA S ENARATHNE,
Minister of Health, Nutrition and
Indigenous Medicine.
Colombo,
27th June, 2019.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Food (Additives - General) Regulations 2019 and shall come into
operation on 1st of January 2020.
2. No person shall import, manufacture, offer for sale, advertise for sale or sell, transport, distribute, store or
introduce into or on any food, any food additives other than the following (hereinafter referred to as the permitted food
additive) :-


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 08.07.2019
2A
(a) food additives which are covered by regulations specified in the Schedule I ; and
(b) classes of food additives used for technological functions that are specified in the Schedule II and covered
by the list and limits for the substances published in the General Standard for Food Additives (GSFA) of the
Codex Alimentarious Commission, unless regulated by food additives specified in product standards
established under the Food Act.
3. A new food additive, if permitted by Codex Alimentarious Commission may be allowed by the Chief Food
Authority on the recommendation of the Food Advisory Committee.
4. No person shall introduce into or on any food, any food additive in such a manner as to conceal or damage, or
make any inferiority in the quality of that food.
5. (1) The label printed on or attached to the package or container -
(a) of a food product containing food additives imported, manufactured, sold, transported, distributed or stored
shall include the common name and INS numbers of the food additives as permitted ; and
(b) of permitted food additivies imported, manufactured, sold, transported, distributed or stored shall include
the common names and classes, INS numbers of the food additives and a statement of directions for its
storage, if any.
(2) In the case of flavoring substances, it shall be sufficient to state the common name of such food flavoring
substance and the specific type of flavour.
6. The labelling of a package or container of a food product containing permitted food additives shall be in
compliance with the provisions of the Food (Labelling and Advertising) Regulations 2005 published in Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1376/9 of January 19, 2005 and any subsequent amendments or replacements.
7. (1) No person shall import, manufacture, store, transport, sell or offer for sale or advertise any permitted food
additive (including any permitted food additive mixed with any other substance) as an ingredient for the preparation of
food, unless such food additive is dispensed in a container bearing a label in accordance with the requirements as follows:-
-
(a) the common name and the INS number of every permitted food additive present in the preparation in the
container ; and
(b) the common name and the INS number, if any, of each other substance present in the preparation in the
container.
(2) If two or more such substances are present, the proportion of each permitted food additive and of each
other substance present in the preparation of food shall be submitted as given in the technical data sheets, if requested by
the Chief Food Authority.
8. (1) Notwithstanding anything stated in these regulations, a food additive may be present in any food where-
(a) the additive is permitted by any other regulations mentioned in Schedule I to be in any ingredient used in
the manufacture of the food ;
(b) the proportion of the additive in any such ingredient does not exceed the maximum proportion, if any,
permitted by any other regulation made under the food Act or Codex Alimentarious Commission for the
class of food additives mentioned in Schedule II, unless regulated by food additives specified in product
standards ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 08.07.2019
3A
(c) the total proportion of the additive in the final product does not exceed the maximum proportion, if any,
permitted by any other regulation made under the food Act or Codex Alimentarious Commission for the
class of food additives mentioned in Schedule II, unless regulated by food additives specified in product
standards ;
(d) the food into which the additive is carried over does not exceed the permitted level for that particular food
; and
(e) the additives which are carried over into foods at a level less than that required to achieve a technological
function and processing aids are exempted from declaration in the list of ingredients.
(2) For the avoidance of doubt it is declared that where a combination of the same class of additives is present
in the final product, the quantity of each such additive shall be expressed as a percentage of the maximum permitted limit
of that additive and the total of these percentages shall not exceed hundred.
9. In these regulations -
“Carried over” means the presence of food additives in food as a result of the use of raw material or other
ingredients in which these additives are used ;
“Class of food additives” means the name given to a group of food additives performing a particular
technological function in the food within the classification purview of the Codex Alimentarious
Commission ;
“Food Additive” means any substance not normally consumed as a food by itself and not normally used as
a typical ingredient of the food, whether or not it has nutritive values, the intentional addition of
which to food for a technological (including organoleptic) purpose in the manufacture, processing,
preparation, treatment, packaging, transport or storage of such food results, or may be reasonably
expected to result (directly or indirectly), in it or its by - products becoming a component of or
otherwise affecting the characteristics of such foods. The term does not include common salt,
substances added to food for maintaining or improving nutritional quality or contaminants ;
“processing aid” means any substance or material, not including apparatus or utensils, and not consumed as
a food ingredient by it self, intentionally used in the processing of raw material, foods or its ingredient
to fulfill a certain technological purpose during treatment or processing which may result in the non
- intentional but unavoidable presence of residues or derivative in the final products.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'07'08
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA 08.07.2019
4A
SCHEDULE   I
(Regulation 2)
1. Food (Coloring substances) Regulations - 2006, Gazette No. 1472/19 dated November 23, 2006 ;
2. Amendment to Food (Colouring substances) Regulations - 2006, Gazette No. 1586/26 dated January 23,
2009 ;
3. Amendment to Food (Coloring substances) Regulations - 2006, Gazette No. 1688/28 dated January 14,
2011 ;
4. Food (Antioxidant) Regulations - 2009, Gazette No. 1617/16 dated September 1, 2009 ;
5. Amendment to Food (Antioxidant) Regulations - 2009, Gazette No. 1809/4 dated May 6, 2013 ;
6. Food (Flavoring substances and flavor enhancers) Regulations - 2013, Gazette No. 1795/51 dated February 1,
2013 ;
7. Food (Sweeteners) Regulations - 2014, Gazette No. 1905/36 dated March 13, 2015 ;
8. Food (Preservatives) Regulations - 2019, Gazette No. 2113/16 dated March 5, 2019 ;
SCHEDULE  II
(Regulation 2)
Class of Food Additive Technological Function
Acidity regulators alters or controls the acidity or alkalinity of a food.
Anticaking agents reduces the tendency of articles of food to adhere to one another.
Antifoaming agents prevents or reduces foaming.
Flour treatment agents a substance added to flour to improve its baking quality or colour.
Colour retention agents stabilizes, retains or intensifies the colour of food.
Emulsifiers substatances which, when added to food, are capable of facilitating uniform dispersion
of oils and fats in aqueous media or vice versa.
Firming agents makes or keeps tissues of fruits or vegetables firm and crisp, or interacts with gelling
agents to produce or strengthen a gel.
Foaming agents make it possible to form or maintain a uniform dispersion of a gaseous phase in a
liquid or solid food.
Glazing agents a substance which is applied to the external surface of a food.
Humectants prevents food from drying out by counteracting the effect of a wetting agent
atmosphere  having  a low degree of humidity.
Propellants a gas, other than air, which expels a food from a container.
Raising/leavening agents a substance or combination of substances which liberate gas and thereby increase
the volume of a dough.
Sequestrants/emulsifying salt reacts with trace metals in foods, forming tightly bound complexes thereby preventing
the auto oxidation of fats and oils and fat ased products.
Stabilizers substances which, when added to food, stabilize emulsions.
07 - 730
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.