

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
539
539
wxl 1"654 - 2010 uehs ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'05'14
No. 1,654 – FRIDAY , MAY 14, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st May, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th May,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... 540
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 540
P
AGE
Posts - Vacant ... ––
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... —
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,653 of 07.05.2010 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
540
Other Appointments & c.
NORTH  CENTRAL  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Ministry of Health, Indigenous Medicine, Social Welfare, Probation and Childcare,
Sports and Youth Affairs of the North Central Province
NOTIFICA TION ISSUED BY THE PROVINCIAL COMMISSIONER OF PROBATION AND CHILDCARE SERVICES ON
APPOINTMENT OF PROBATION OFFICERS
BY virtue of powers vested in me under the 13th Amendment incorporated to the Constitution of 1978, the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42
of 1987 and the Provincial Councils Act, (Ancillary Provisions) No. 12 of 1989, I, Kottala Badda Vidanelage Dhammika Namal Muthugala,
the Commissioner of Probation and Childcare Services of the North Central Provincial Council inform the Government of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and all Sri Lankans, that in accordance with Section No. 18(3) of the Probation of offenders Ordinance No.
42 of 1944 appoint the persons named below as Probation Officers in the Department of Probation and Childcare Services of the N orth
Central Province with effect from the dates indicated against their names until further notice is given and will post them to the judicial regions
mentioned against their names to be effective from the same date :–
No. Names Judicial Regions Effective Dates
01. Mr. Adi Udi Samasara Rathnamalala Irugal Bandaralage Anuradhapura 01.09.2005
Wanninayaka, Rathnamalala
02. Mrs. Doona Sriyani De Silva Anuradhapura 08.07.2002
03. Mr. Kapuruhamyge Karuna Keerthirathna Thambuththegama 07.09.2009
04. Miss  Senevirathna Mudiyanselage Sirisenage Chandra Senevirathna Kekirawa 14.09.2009
05. Mrs. Abesingha Mudiyanselage Mudiyansege Amara Sriyani Kebithigollawa 01.09.2009
06. Mr. Ukku Bandage Tennakoon Polonnaruwa 01.09.2005
07. Mrs. Dunumalage Menaka Subhashini Jayasekara Hingurakgoda 16.10.2009
K. B. V . D. N. M
UTHUGALA,
Commissioner,
Department of Probation and Childcare Services.
North Central Province,
Anuradhapura.
05–288
Provincial Councils Notifications
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notification under terms of Provisions in Section 154, 255 Competent Authority in Urban Councils Ordinance read in
Conjunction with Section 2 in the Provincial Councils (Consequent Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
THE By-law described in Schedule hereto was prepared, by Maharagama Urban Council by the virtue of powers vested on Section 153 of
Urban Councils Ordinance and as per provisions of Section 157(14a) as the 255 Competent Authority, Maharagama Urban Council has
prepared and approved under the Resolution No. 08.1 in the Council General Meeting held on 31st July, 2007 I, Prasanna Ranathunga, the
Chief Minister and the Minister in-Charge of Finance Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial
Administration, Power and Energy, Manpower and Employment, Economic Development of Provincial Council Western Province under
terms and Provisions in Section 154, aforesaid 255 competent Authority in Urban Councils Ordinance read in conjunction with Section 2 in
the Provincial Councils Consequent Provisions Act, No. 12 of 1989, granted approval.
P
RASSANA RANATHUNGA,
Chief Minister and the Minister in-Charge of Finance Planning, Law and Order, Land,
Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration, Power and Energy, Manpower
and Employment, Economic Development of Provincial Council, Western Province.
Chief Ministry Office,
“Shrawasthi Mandiraya”,
Colombo 07.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
541
By Law – Maharagama Urban Council
BY -LAW ON CREMATORIUMS
1. This By-law is refereed to as supplementary legislation for crematoriums of Maharagama Urban Council.
2. This By-law is enforced to impose charges and regularize the administration of crematoriums owned by Maharagama Urban Council.
3. No Entombment should be done with out written permission by the Chairman of Urban Council or authorized officer.
4. Any individual (hereafter referred as applicant) who wish to get written permission of aforesaid in 3rd Supplementary Legislation
should submit an application according to the provisions of Schedule "A" :–
(a) A document issued by the Chairman or by a Member of Urban Council or certificate issued by Grama Niladhari of the relevant
Grama Niladhari Division is accepted ;
(b) If the death of deceased person is investigated under the provisions of Penal Provisions Code a certificate of approval for
cremation by a coroner or a magistrate under Secion 41(e) of Births and Deaths Registration Ordinance is necessary ;
(c) If death body is by a still birth, the certificate issued under Section 43(1) of the ordinance of the birth and death registration is
suffice.
5. The completed application form after been handed over to the Chairman should be recorded in order of receipt.
6. If dead body is accepted for cremation, permit should be handed over to the applicant after due charges are levied. Time of cremation
should be mentioned in the permit before the dead body is handed over to caretaker of crematorium.
7. If dead body is not accepted for cremation it should be informed to applicant with relevant reasons in writing.
8. Corpse could be accepted daily between 7.00 a. m. to 8.00 p. m. for cremation.
9. Applicant should handover corpse on or before time indicated to caretaker of crematorium. The Urban Council will not be held
responsible for any inconvenience caused due to any delayed handing over.
10. The name and address of the applicant, National Identity Card Number, name of the deceased and the address where he lived before
death and relationship between deceased and the applicant, date and time of the cremation etc. should be recorded by the caretaker
of the crematorium on each cremation carried out in every crematorium respectively.
11. The applicant or his agent who request, remaining should accept them with in lapse of 72 hours of cremation. If remaining were not
collected within 07 days after a written notification council can dispose them whatever the manner legitimately.
12. It is an offence to enter premises of the crematorium with out the permission of Chairman or the caretaker of the crematoriu m.
However is it should be considered that permit holder to cremate or an associate/s are permitted to perform cremation.
13. Breach of peace within the crematorium premises or causing damage the properties of the Urban Council within the premises, o r
obstructing the official duties of the caretaker of crematorium or his assistants and decorating the crematorium premises should not
be done.
14. Any individual, if punished by court of law, with proper judicial powers, he will be fined not exceeding sum of Rupees Seven
Hundred Fifty, regarding violation of By-laws 12 and 13 of this supplementary legislation.
15. (1) The maintenance of the crematorium is the duty of the Chairman.
(2) It is the duty of the chairman display a notice at the crematorium in public if crematorium is closed for a period of this f or
maintenance or restoration.
16. Charges for cremation of dead bodies could be decided at council at a council meeting and could be imposed timely. Such charges could
revised if required by the council. These changes should always be published on the Government gazette.
17. If another version is required regarding the terms,
“Council” means Urban Council of Maharagama,
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council of Maharagama,

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
542
“Authorized Officer” means any officer authorized legally in writing to perform the duties of the Chairman,
“Caretaker of crematorium” means a person appointed to work as by the council as the caretaker of the crematorium,
“Dead body” means a dead body of human being or part of a dead body or body by a still birth.
SCHEDULE "A"
APPLICATION FOR CREMATION OF A DEAD BODY AT .................................... CREMATORIUM
1. Full name of the applicant :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
2. Name of Deceased :–––––––––––.
Address of dwelling :–––––––––––.
Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
3. Relationship of the deceased to the applicant :–––––––––––.
4. Number and date of certificate of death :–––––––––––.
5. Name and address of Registrar :–––––––––––.
6. Cause of Death :–––––––––––.
7. If a postmortem was held, date and time :–––––––––––.
8. Name and designation of the conducted officer :–––––––––––.
9. Verdict of the officer :–––––––––––.
10. Permitted to cremate or not :–––––––––––.
11. Expected date and time for crementation :–––––––––––.
I certify this information give above are true and correct. Relevant certificates are attached.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature and date.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
I approved to issue the permit/permission is denied due following reasons. ............................................
––––––––––––––,
Signature,
Chairman/Officer Authorized.
Date :–––––––––––.
Chairman/Officer Authorized :
1. Entered to the register.
Received sum of Rupees .......................... on ......../........./........ under receipt No. ..............................
2. Permit is produced for endorsement.
3. Letter of refutation is produced for approval.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of clerk.
Date :–––––––––––.
05–211/1
–––––––––––––––––
MAHARAGAMA  URBAN  COUNCIL
By-law on demarcations of parking, controlling and charging, parking fee within the limits of
Urban Council of Maharagama
1. This By-law is terms as supplementary legislation of controlling parking of vehicles and charging fees for parking in place demarcated
for parking within the limits of Urban Council, Maharagama.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
543
2. A notice should be exhibited in a public places by Chairman of Maharagama Urban Council hereinafter referred as the Chairman,
regarding the place of parking, prohibited or limited parking or places reserved for parking in a street or part of a street. P arking
should be done only in places where it is allowed by the Council.
3. As mentioned in article 2 at the time when parking of vehicles is permitted or parking of vehicles is prohibited the driver of the vehicle
must adhere to –
(a) Any officer or authority taking action in terms of sign boards or notice according to so exhibited ; or
(b) Following any procedure of moving vehicles existing at the street or part of the street ; or
(c) Allowing somebody to get in or get out a vehicle ; or
(d) Stopping/Parking the vehicle to load or unload some items to/from the vehicle should not be done.
4. Unless anybody posses a valid permit issued by the Chairman under this by-law to part his/her vehicle he/she should not part vehicle
in reserved place.
5. The fee will be charged as mentioned in the Schedule A and B for each permit issued under By-Law 04, approved by the Council,
revised by Gazette notification.
Schedule "A"
Charges for first hour or Charges for each
a fraction of it additional hour
Rs. cents Rs. cents
(i) For a bicycle 5 0 2 0
(ii) For motorcycle 10 0 5 0
(iii) For motorcar 20 0 10 0
(iv) For bus or lorry 100 0 20 0
(v) For a van or other motor vehicle 30 0 10 0
(vi) For three wheeler 15 0 5 0
6. Annual or monthly permit could be obtained for private vehicles according to Schedule 'B'. Schedule B for hiring vehicles registered
in Urban Council Maharagama.
Schedule "B"
For a full day
Rs. cents.
Bicycle 20 0
Lorry 100 0
Bus (CTB and private) 100 0
Hiring van 75 0
7. Every permit when issued under this By-law should under consist the Registration No. of the vehicle and it should be limited to the
period mentioned.
8. Everybody who record should display it in a place visible outside.
9. Anytime a police officer or any other person authorized by the Chairman at a common place of parking, requests the driver or the
owner to produce a permit/pass issued to the particular vehicle for inspection, the driver or the owner should produce same.
10. At a time whenever a permit is issued to park a particular type, class or grade of vehicle, he should not park any other type vehicle
not belonging that class or grade of vehicle.
11. Nobody should park his vehicle in public place for parking obstructing the "IN" or "OUT" way to the common parking space.
12. In an occasion when a notice or a signboard is displayed, at a public parking space, after reserving a separate entrance or departure,
any vehicle should not enter or depart from any other way.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'05'14
Part IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 14.05.2010
544
13. At the common parking space, where chains and pillars are supplied (to demarcate the parking track) every vehicle should be kept
parked in order of arrival one behind the other.
14. Nobody should wash a vehicle in common parking space when it is parked.
15. Nobody should do any type of repair to the vehicle parked in a common space for parking unless it is essential to do the rep air to
remove the vehicle from the parking space.
16. In an occasion when such a repair is been done (an unusual or) essential or unreasonable alarming sound should not be made.
17. Any driver of vehicle parked in a common parking space should –
(a) Refrain from starting engine unless for the changing of parking place or leaving the park ;
(b) Refrain from sounding an alarm equipment/instrument unless for prevention of an accident or confirming the security of the
vehicle or persons occupying the vehicle.
18. Anybody should refrain from behaving bad or causing hindrance.
19. A monthly permit could be obtained by any Government Department or corporation or unconstitutional personal board by paying
the following monthly charges to the Chairman or to an authorized officer for the use of that department or personal board :
Rs. cts.
(i) For bus or a lorry 350 0
(ii) For motor coach or motor vehicle 300 0
(iii) For motorcycle 150 0
(iv) For three wheeler 200 0
20. A particular class of persons could be released from paying the specified fees after approving a council proposal.
21. Anybody violating these By-laws will commit an offence, if that person is found guilty before a court of law, should pay a fine a sum
of money not exceeding Rs. 750 and if he continues commit same offence, should be fined an additional fine of Rs. 250 per every day
of committing and money should be credited to Common/General account of the Urban Council.
Unless other meaning is required for these  :–
22. (i) Term of Chairman means, the Chairman of Urban Council Maharagama ;
(ii) The Police Officer means, an officer of the Department of the Police less than the grade of Inspector of Police ;
(iii) Controller of the traffic means, a person authorized by the Chairman to issue the permits in common parking space on behalf
of the Chairman ;
(iv) Unless other meaning is required regarding the terms in this By-law motorcar, motor coach, motorcycle, motor vehicle, lorry,
bus, three-wheeler gives the same meaning as in Motor Traffics Ordinance ;
(v) Vehicle means, it is driven mechanically or otherwise, used as a mode of transport or and an artificial device that should be used
for transport.
(vi) “ Common parking place” means, a place named on an approved proposal of Urban Council Maharagama.
Municipality means Urban Council Maharagama.
05–211/2
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.