

<!-- page 1 -->

7National Savings Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
NATIONAL   SA VINGS   BANK (AMENDMENT)
ACT,  No.22 OF 1999
[Certified on 12th  August , 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 13, 1999.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price: Rs. 5.75 Postage: Rs.3.50
[Internet Version]


<!-- page 2 -->

1National Savings Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1999
[Certified on 12th  August, 1999]
L. D. O  - 8/98.
A N  ACT  TO  AMEND  THE  NATIONAL  SA VINGS  BANK  ACT ,
N O . 30 OF  1971
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the National Savings Bank
(Amendment) Act, No.22 of 1999.
2. Section 3 of the National Savings Bank Act, No.30 of
1971 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is
hereby amended as follows:-
(1) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “The Seal of the Bank”, of the words
“Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), the Seal
of the Bank” ; and
(2) by the addition, immediately after subsection (3) of
that section, of the following new subsection:-
“(4) Where due to sickness, temporary
absence from Sri Lanka or there being
vacancies in the membership of the Board,
affixing of the seal under subsection (3) cannot
be done in the presence of two members, the
seal may be affixed to any instrument or
document in the presence of one member and
the General- Manager of the Bank.”
3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:-
(1)  by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, and
the substitution of the following subsection
therefor:-
Short title.
Amendment of
section 3 of Act
No.30 of 1971.
Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.
H- 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Savings Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1999
“(1) The Bank shall have its principal place
of business in Colombo and may have such
branches, and may appoint such agencies
and agents as may be necessary for the
transaction of business of the Bank and may
also appoint agents and establish
representative offices outside Sri Lanka for
purpose of mobilisation of deposits.” and
(2) by the substitution, in subsection (2) of that
section, for the words, “appoint as an agency or
agent.” of the words “appoint as an agent.” ;
4. Section 6 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No.28 of 1995 is herey further amended in subsection (1)
of that section, as follows:-
(1) by the substitution for the words “provisions
of this Act,”, of the words “provisions of this
Act and any other law including regulations
made or directions issued thereunder,” ;
(2) in paragraph (a) of that subsection, by the
substitution, for the words “savings accounts
and the issue of savings certificates;” , of the
words “savings certificate or any other
instrument or product that will enable the Bank
to mobilise savings; “;
(3) in paragraph (e) of that subsection, by the
substitution, for the words “against the
security of their deposits,” of  the words “against
the security of their deposits or any other secu-
rity or guarantee as determined by the Board;”;
(4) in paragraph (f) of that subsection, by the
substitution for the words “housing loans on
security”, of the words “housing loans or other
loans for non commercial purposes on security”;
(5) in paragraph (h) of that subsection, by the
substitution, for the words “acquiring any
immovable or movable property” , of the words
“purchasing, taking on lease, exchange, hiring
or  otherwise acquiring  any immovable or mov-
able property or any rights in such property” ;
Amendment of
section 6 of the
principal
enactment

<!-- page 4 -->

3National Savings Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1999
( 6 ) by the repeal of paragraph (j) of that
subsection, and the substitution therefor of the
following paragraph:-
“(j)trading in financial instruments issued or
guaranteed by financial institutions and
quoted companies approved by the Board;”.
(7) by the addition immediately after paragraph (j)
of that subsection the following new
paragraphs:-
“(k) Providing re-finance facilities to licensed
commercial banks and licensed specialised
banks, for the purpose of medium and long
term project lending;
(l) issuing letters of guarantee against
deposits;
(m) borrowing monies from local and
international credit institutions or agencies;
(n) conducting lotteries and prize competitions;
(o) investing in equity capital of any licensed
commercial bank, licensed specialised bank,
a subsidiary of any licensed commercial bank
or licensed specialised bank or in any public
company listed or seeking listing in a licensed
stock exchange;
(p) opening of rupee accounts for non  residents;
(q) collection and conversion of foreign currency
from depositors;
(r) providing safe custody and safe deposit
locker facilities to customers;
(s) undertaking pawnbroking business subject
to such conditions as may be determined by
the  Monetary Board:
(t) providing facilities for money transfers;
(u) establishing subsidiary companies with the
written approval of the Monetary Board;

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Savings Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1999
(v) undertaking trust and estate administration;
(w) carrying on such other activities as may be
incidental or conducive to the functions and
activities referred to above.”
5. Section 26 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No.28 of 1995, is hereby further amended in subsection
(1) of that section by the substitution for the words “General
Manager of the Bank” , of the words “General Manager of the
Bank who shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Bank.”
6. The following new section is hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 26 and shall have effect as section 26
A  of
the principal enactment:-
26 A  (1) The Board may, from time to time by
resolution made in that behalf delegate to the
General Manager or to any other officer of the
Bank any of its functions or activities, subject
to such terms and conditions as may be
 specified in such resolution and the Board may
revoke or withdraw any such delegation.
(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made
under subsection (1) to the General Manager
or to any other officer of the Bank, the Board
shall have the right to discharge or perform any
function or activity so delegated.”
7. Section 41 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 28 of 1995 is hereby repealed and the following
section is substituted therefor :-
41. Interest shall be paid by the Bank at
rates to be determined by the Board, on
money’s deposited with it, including money’s
transferred to the Unclaimed Deposits Reserve,
for the period during which the money was
lying in such Unclaimed Deposits Reserve.”.
Amendment of
section 26 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 26A  in
the principal
enactment.
Replacement of
Section 41 of the
principal
enactment
“Delegation
of powers to
the General
Manager and
any other
officer.
“Interest to
 be paid

<!-- page 6 -->

5National Savings Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1999
Insertion of new
section 42 in the
principal
enactment.
8. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 41, and shall have effect as section
42 of the principal enactment :-
42. the Board may make payments, other
than interest, on such classes of accounts as it
may specify, and at such rates as it may
determine.”
9. Section 47 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No.28 of 1995 is hereby further amended in subsection
(4) of that section, by the substitution, for the words “Pay and
amount equivalent to the amount which was in the account,
to the claimant” , of the words “pay to the claimant an amount
equivalent to the amount which was in the account together
with interest calculated in accordance with rates as
determined by the Board under section 41,”.
10. the following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 78, and shall have effect as section
79 of the principal enactment:-
79. the provisions of the Pawnbrokers
Ordinance (Chapter 90) shall not apply in
respect of pawnbroking business undertaken
by the Bank.”.
11. Section 87 of the principal enactment as last amended
by Act, No.28 of 1995 is hereby further amended as follows:-
(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition
of the word “guardian” of the following new
definition:-
“licensed commercial  bank” and Iicensed
specialised bank” shall have the same meaning,
respectively as in Banking Act, No.30 of 1988,”
and ; and
Amendment of
Section 47 of the
principal
enactment.
Insertion of new
section 79 in the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 87 of the
principal
enactment.
“Pawnbrokers
Ordinance not
to apply
“Payments
other
than
interest.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Savings Bank (Amendment)
Act, No. 22 of 1999
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
(2) by the insertion immediately after the definition
of the expression “savings certificate”, of the
following new definition:-
“savings instrument or product” means any
instrument or product that will enable the Bank
to mobilise savings”.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS
H OUSE , LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year
following.