

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2209
2209
wxl 1"837 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'11'15
No. 1,837 – FRIDAY , NOVEMBER 15, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2211
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.—Part I:III of the Gazette No. 1,836 of 08.11.2013 was not published.
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th December, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd
November, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2210
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2211
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE  AND  URBAN
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF COAST
CONSERV ATION GUARD IN CLASS III OF COAST
CONSERV ATION SERVICE – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who
qualified from the qualifications stipulated in this notification to
recruit to the Post of Coast Conservation Guard of the Department
of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management.
(Including the attachments to the North and East Provinces).
02. Service Conditions. – The Officers who will be recruited to
the post of Coast Conservation Guard of Class III in Coast
Conservation Service shall be subject to the general conditions,
imposed to the appointments of Public Service and the conditions
under mentioned.
2.1 The selected officers may be subject to the condition of
discharge the service in any part of the island.
2.2 Appointment will be on probation, for a period of 3
years. If an officer would be appointed to this post,
which is in permanent state service at present, he will be
subject to a one year of examine period.
2.3 The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed
before earn the third salary increment, since the date of
appointent, to permanent the appointment.
2.4 As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007,
the selected officers should attain proficiency in other
official language, within a period of 05 years from the
date of appointment.
2.5 The officer who will be appointed shall be subject to the
Orders of the Public Service Commission, Provisions of
the Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Orders
and Regulations that may be issued by the Government
from time to time and the Regulations of the Ministry
and the Department.
2.6 Should able to perform the duties in Tamil language.
2.7 This post is permanent and pensionable, which
contributions should be made to the Widows/Widowers
and Orphan's Pension Fund.
2.8 The Clauses 10-12, in the 11 Chapter of the Establishment
Code is, applicable.
03. Salary Scale .– The monthly salary scale attached to this
post as per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv) -
MN-1-2006-A is Rs. 13,120 -10x145 -11x170 - 10x240 - 10x320 -
Rs. 22,040.
04. Age Limit :
4.1 Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30
years of age on the closing date of applications. The
maximum age limit does not apply to those who are
presently serving in the Government Service.
4.2 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4.3 The applicant shall bear an excellent moral character and
adequate physical eligibility for discharging the duties.
05. Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Passed in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in
one sitting including Sinhala/Tamil/English, Mathematics
and another 2 subjects with credit passes ; and
5.2 Passed at least one subject in the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
(Except General Test).
06. Selection Procedure for Appointments .– Candidates who
possessed the basic qualifications should be appeared for a structured
interview conducted by the Department of Coast Conservation
and Coastal Resource Management.
The recruitment will be done according to the sequence of the
merits of the total marks obtained by the each applicant, at the
interview.
07. The method of sending application :
7.1 The application form should be prepared as per the
specimen application form given at the end of this Gazette
Notification, using both sides of the A 4 size sheets including
Sections 01 to 06 in the first page and the remaining Sections
in other pages and should be sent under registered post to
reach "The Director General, Department of Coast
Conservation and Coastal Resource Management, 4th
Floor, New Secretariat, Maligawattha, Colombo 10" on or
before 06.12.2013. Left hand corner of the envelope which
enclosed the application "Recruitment to the Post of Coast
Conservation Guard in Class III of the Coast Conservation
Service" should be mentioned clearly.
Note.– The candidates who are already in the Public
Service should forward their application forms through
the respective Head of the Department/Institution.
7.2 Applications not completed in each ways will be rejected.
The requests made regarding the applications received late
or those lost in the post will not be considered.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2212
7.3 Receipt of application will not be acknowledged.
Candidates who do not receive their letter calling for
interview, at least 07 days before the date of interview,
should inquire without delay, from the Director General,
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management and submit the following details :
(i) Full name of applicant.
(ii) Address.
08. The photocopies of the following certificates should be
attached to the application form :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Certificates of proving educational qualifications.
Punishments for furnishing incorrect information.– If it is found
that the candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications prior to the
interview or after the interview or at any time, his candidature will
be liable for cancellation. Any information which is found to be
incorrect, the applicant liable to dismissal from the service, if it is
discovered that he has intentionally produced such information.
09. Action will be taken as per the decision of the Director
General to the Coast Conservation and Coast Resources
Management, regarding any matter which is not considered by this
Gazette Notification.
Dr. A
NIL PREMARATHNE,
Director General of Coast Conservation and
Coast Resources Management.
Department of Coast Conservation and
Coast Resources Management,
Maligawatta,
25th October, 2013.
M
INISTRY OF DEFENCE AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF COAST CONSERV ATION AND COASTAL RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF COAST CONSERVATION
GUARD IN CLASS III TO THE SERVICE OF COAST
CONSERVATION – 2013
(For office use only)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters Ex. : SILV A  A. B.)
1.2 Names denoted by the Initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block letter)
1.3 Full Name (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Private :––––––––––––.
2.2 Office :––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Residential District :––––––––––––.
3.2 Divisional Secretary Division :––––––––––––.
3.3 Whether a Sri Lanka citizen :––––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.2 National Identity Card :
05. 5.1 Sex :
Female
Male
5.2 Married/Unmarried/Widowed :
Married
Unmarried
Widowed
06. Educational Qualifications :
6.1 G. C. E. (O/L) :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
(The copies of the certificates are attached here to)
6.2 G. C. E. (A/L) :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass
1.
2.
3.
4.
(The copies of the certificates are attached here to)
07. Other Qualifications :
Name of the Course followed Duration of Pass
Course Institution Course
1.
2.
3.
(The copies of the certificates are attached here to)

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2213
08. Details of language proficiency :
Language Reading Writing Speaking
1.
2.
3.
(The copies of the certificates are attached here to)
09. Details of computer skills :
Certificates Certificate issued Y ear Subject
Institution
1.
2.
(The copies of the certificates are attached here to)
10. I do hereby certify that the particulars provided by me in this
application form are true and correct. Further, I am fully aware
that if any information provided herein is found to be false or
incorrect prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified
and if it is found after the selection, I am liable to be dismissed
from the service without paying any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Only for the applicants those who serves in the permanent
government service, at present :
Recommendation of the Head of the Department/Institution
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by the applicant,
are examined and those are correct. If he would be qualified to
recruit the above post, and he/she, could be released/cannot be
released from his/her present position.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Should keep the official stamp)
Post :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–446/1
––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  DEFENCE  AND  URBAN  DEVELOPMENT
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF FIELD LABOURER IN
CLASS III OF THE DEPARTMENTAL SERVICE – 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who
qualified from the qualifications stipulated in this notification to
recruit to the Post of Field Labourer of Class III, in the Departmental
Service, of the Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal
Resource Management. (Including the attachments to the North
and East Provinces).
02. Service Conditions. – The officers who will be recruited to
the post of Field Labourer of Class III in Departmental Service
shall be subject to the general conditions, imposed to the
appointments of Public Service and the condition under mentioned.
2.1 The selected officers may be subject to the condition of
discharge the service in any part of the island.
2.2 Appointment will be on probation, for a period of 3
years. If an officer would be appointed to this post,
which is in permanent state service at present, he will be
subject to a one year of examine period.
2.3 The First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed
before earn the third salary increment, since the date of
appointment, to permanent the appointment.
2.4 As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007,
the selected officers should attain proficiency in other
official language, with in a period of 05 years from the
date of appointment.
2.5 The officer who will be appointed shall be subject to the
Orders of the Public Service Commission, Provisions of
the Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Orders
and Regulations that may be issued by the Government
from time to time and the Regulations of the Ministry
and the Department.
2.6 This post is permanent and pensionable, which
contributions should be made to the Widows/Widowers
and Orphan's Pension Fund.
2.7 The Clauses 10-12, in the 11 Chapter of the Establishment
Code is, applicable.
03. Salary Scale .– The monthly salary scale attached to this
post as per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv) -
PL-1-2006-A is Rs. 11,730 -10x120 -10x130 - 10x145 - 12x160 -
Rs. 17,600.
04. Age Limit :
4.1 Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age on the closing date of applications. The
maximum age limit does not apply to those who are
presently serving in the Government Service.
4.2 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4.3 The applicant shall bear an excellent moral character and
adequate physical eligibility for discharging the duties.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2214
05. Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Passed in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in
two sitting including not less than 2 credit passes.
06. Selection Procedure for Appointments .– Candidates who
possessed the basic qualifications will be appeared for a structured
interview conducted by the Department of Coast Conservation
and Coastal Resource Management.
The recruitment will be done according to the sequence if the
merits of the total marks obtained by the each applicant, at the
interview.
07. The method of sending applications :
7.1 The application form should be prepared as per the
specimen application form given at the end of this Gazette
Notification, using both sides of the A4 size sheets including
Sections 01 to 06 in the first page and the remaining Sections
in other pages and should be sent under registered post to
reach "The Director General, Department of Coast
Conservation and Coastal Resource Management, 4th
Floor, New Secretariat, Maligawattha, Colombo 10" on or
before 06.12.2013. Left hand corner of the envelope which
enclosed the application "Recruitment to the post of Field
Labourer in Class III of the Departmental Service" should
be mentioned clearly.
Note.– The candidates who are already in the Public Service
should forward their application forms through the
respective Head of the Department/Institution.
7.2 Applications not completed in each ways will be rejected.
The requests made regarding the applications received late
or those lost in the post will not be considered.
7.3 Receipt of application will not be acknowledged.
Candidates who do not receive their letter calling for
interview, at least 07 days before the date of interview,
should without delay, inquire from the Director General,
Department of Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management and submit the following details :
(i) Full name of applicant.
(ii) Address.
08. The photocopies of the following certificates should be
attached to the application form :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Ce rtificates of proving educational qualifications.
Punishments for furnishing incorrect information.– If it is found
that the candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications prior to the
interview or after the interview or at any time, his candidature will
be liable for cancellation. Any information which is found to be
incorrect, the applicant liable to dismissal from the service, if it is
discovered that he has intentionally produced such information.
09. Action will be taken as per the decision of the Director
General to the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource
Management, regarding any matter which is not considered by this
Gazette Notification.
Dr. A
NIL PREMARATHNE,
Director General of Coast Conservation and
Coast Resource Management.
Department of Coast Conservation and
Coastal Resource Management,
Maligawatta,
25th October, 2013.
MINISTRY OF DEFENCE AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
DEPARTMENT OF COAST CONSERV ATION AND COASTAL RESOURCE
MANAGEMENT
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF FIELD LABOURER
IN CLASS III TO THE DEP ARTMENTAL SERVICE - 2013
(For office use only)
01. Name :
1.1 Name with Initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters Ex. : SILV A  A. B.)
1.2 Names denoted by the Initials :––––––––––––.
(In English block letters)
1.3 Full name (in Sinhala) :––––––––––––.
02. Address :
2.1 Private :––––––––––––.
2.2 Office :––––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Residential District :––––––––––––.
3.2 Divisional Secretary Division :––––––––––––.
3.3 Whether a Sri Lankan citizen :––––––––––––.
04. 4.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.2 National Identity Card No. :
05. 5.1 Sex :
Female
Male

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2215
5.2 Married/Unmarried/Widowed :
Married
Unmarried
Widowed
06. Educational Qualifications :
6.1 G . C. E. (O/L) :
Year :––––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
(The copies of the certificates are attached hereto)
07. Other Qualifications :
Name of the Course followed Duration of Pass
course institution the Course
1.
2.
3.
(The copies of the certificates are attached hereto)
08. Details of language proficiency :
Language Reading Writing Speaking
1.
2.
3.
(The copies of the certificates are attached hereto)
09. I do hereby certify that the particulars provided by me in this
application form are true and correct. Further, I am fully aware
that if any information provided herein is found to be false or
incorrect prior to my selection, I am liable to be disqualified
and if it is found after the selection, I am liable to be dismissed
from the service without paying any compensation.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
Only for the applicants those who serves in the permanent
Government service, at present :
Recommendation of the Head of the Department/Institution
I do hereby certify that the particulars given by the applicant,
are examined and those are correct. If he would be qualified to
recruit the above post and he/she, could be released/cannot be
released from his/her present position.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Should keep the official stamp)
Post :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–446/2
––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Highways, Ports and Shipping
DIRECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE OF
MERCHANT SHIPPING
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following post, from citizens
of Sri Lanka who possess the necessary qualifications as indicated
in this notification.
Posts Vacant :
Posts Class No. of Posts
Assistant Government Ship Class II 01
Survey (Engineer)
1. Qualifications and Experience :
Educational Qualifications. – Applicants should possess a
Certificate of Competency as NWKO (Unlimited).
Experience.– 2 years' experience having served as a Watch
keeping Officer (Engineer) of a trading vessel having a
capacity of more than 300KW.
2. Physical fitness.– All candidates shall have the physical and
mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and to perform the
duties of the post. Selected candidates will be called upon to undergo
a medical examination.
3. Other Qualifications .– A candidate applying for these posts
must :
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Have a sound moral character ;
(iii) Have satisfied all the requirements for recruitment to the
post, on the prescribed date as per the notification/
Gazette.
4. Age.– Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45
years of age. (The upper age limit will not be applicable to those
who are already in the Public Service).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2216
5. Salary Scale. – Rs. 16,720 - 10x320 -11x365 -15x450 -
Rs. 30,685.
6. Method of recruitment. – Marks will be granted by the
structured interview as per the marking scheme mentioned in below.
Vacancies will be filled in order of the merit obtained by the applicant
at the interview.
Areas to be checked and the Maximum
marks allotted Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 30
2. Professional Qualifications 25
3. Additional Experience 20
(In addition to the minimum recruitment
qualifications)
4. English Language Proficiency 10
5. Computer Literacy 10
6. Skills at the Interview
  05
100
(i) Above posts are permanent and Pensionable. Contributions
must be made to "Widows and Orphans" Pension Fund.
7. Method of Applying :
(i) Applications which should be in the form appended to
this notification should be sent by registered post to
reach the Director General, Director General's Office of
Merchant Shipping, No. 43/89, 1st Floor, Bristol Building,
York Street, Colombo 01 on or before. 17.12.2013. The
envelope enclosing the application should be marked with
the relevant post on the left hand top corner.
(ii) Applications from officers in the public service must be
forwarded through the Head of their Department.
In this notification, if there is any conflict between the English,
Sinhala and Tamil texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
A. W. S
ENAVIRATNA,
Director General.
Director General's Office of Merchant Shipping,
1st Floor, Bristol Building,
No. 43-89, York Street,
Colombo 01,
15th November, 2013.
F
ORM OF APPLICATION
MINISTRY OF HIGHW AYS, PORTS AND SHIPPING
ASSISTANT GOVERNMENT SHIP SURVEY (ENGINEER) OF
DIRECTOR GENERAL'S OFFICE OF MERCHANT SHIPPING
01. Name in full :–––––––––––.
02. Address :–––––––––––.
03. Contact No. :–––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
Age as at 15.11.2013 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
05. Nationality :–––––––––––.
06. Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
07. Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
08. Particulars of Employment or Training :–––––––––––.
09. Present Employment :–––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to
disqualification before the selection and to dismissal without any
compensation whatsoever if the inaccuracies are detected after the
appointment.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–498
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  TRANSPORT
Post of Legal Officer (Executive Grade, Grade III)
Recruitment on Open Basis
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lanka citizens possessing
following qualifications for the post of legal officer in the Ministry
of Transport.
01. Method of Recruitment. – Candidates obtaining the highest
marks from the results of a structural interview conducted by an
interview Board appointed by the Public Service Commission will
be recruited from among applicants possessing the qualifications
prescribed in the notification according to the number of vacancies.
Structural interview will be held in accordance with the marking
scheme (para 06) approved by the Public Service Commission.
02. Required Qualifications :
(i) Educational/professional Qualifications :
Having taken oaths as an Attorney-at-law of the Supreme
Court/possessing a Law degree obtained from a university
recognized by the University Grants Commission.
(ii) Experience :
Possessing an active professional experience of not less
than three years (03) after taking oaths as an Attorney-
at-Law of the Supreme Court.
(iii) Physical Qualifications :

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2217
Every applicant should be of sufficient physical and
mental fitness to serve in any part of the Island and to
perform the duties attached to the post.
(iv) Other Qualifications :
* Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* Applicant should be of excellent moral character.
* Should have completed the required qualifications by
the closing date of applications.
03. Terms of engagement and Service Conditions  :
(i) Post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions should
be paid to the Widows and Orphans/Widower's and
Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Appointment will be subject to a three years probation
period. After recruitment as Legal Officer Grade III, should
pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed in
the Scheme of recruitment within three years.
(iii) According to the Public Administration Circular 07/2007,
within five years from recruitment to the post, should
obtain proficiency in the other official language in addition
to the language of recruitment to the service.
(iv) This appointment will be subject to the Procedural Rules
of the Public Service Commission published in the
Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009
Financial regulations and provisions of the Establishments
Code.
04. Age limit.– Applicant should be not less than 21 years not
more than 45 years on the closing date of application.
05. Salary scale. – This post carries a monthly salary scale
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (in terms of P.
A. Circular 06/2006 salary segment SL 1-2006.
06. Scheme of marks given below will be base for the structural
interview :
Subject Maximum
Marks
01 Additional Ed ucational Qualifications : 20
Law degree obtained from a recgonized
university :
– First class pass 20
– Second upper class pass 15
– Second lower class pass 10
First class pass in Law College final year 15
Second class pass in Law College 10
final year
(Marks will be allocated only for the
maximum qualification, only one out of
degree or Law College qualifications)
Subject Maximum
Marks
02 Additional Professional Qualifications : 15
For a post-graduate diploma not less than
one eyar pertaining to the relevant field
obtained from a recognized institution or
Post Diploma Course in Law).
(05 marks for each Diploma)
For a Diploma Course not less than six
months pertaining to the relevant field,
obtained from a recognized institution.
(03 marks for each Diploma)
For a certificate course not less than 03
months pertaining to the relevant field
given by a recognized institution
(02 marks for each Diploma)
03 Additional Experience : 30
Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in
state service or private sector maximum of
30 marks at the rate of 05 marks per year.
(Excluding the 03 years period worked as
an attorney required to obtain the basic
qualification)
(Additional experience should be certified
by an Attorney-at-Law who completed a
period of service of not less than 20 years
or a President's Counsel or a Judge).
04 Computer literacy 15
For having followed Information
Technology as a main subject for a degree
obtained from a university recognized by
the University Grant Commission.
For a Diploma Course in Information
Technology not less than six months
followed in a Government recognized
Institution.
For a certificate course in Information
Technology not less than 03 months
followed in a Government recognized
Institution.
05 Proficiency in English Language 15 15
Post Degree/Degree/Post Law Degree/Law
Degree (should have answered all relevant
question papers in English medium)
For a Diploma Course in English Language 10
from a university recognized by the
University Grants Commission or an
institute recognized by the government
For a certificate course from a university
recognized by the University Grants
Commission or an Institute recognized by
the Government
06 Merits shown at the interview 05
Total 100

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2218
Note :–
(i) Applicants should have fulfilled all the necessary
qualifications prior to the date of calling for applications.
Only those who submitted applications complete in all
respects will be called for the interview.
(ii) Originals of all certificates and dulty certified copies
should be produced at the interview.
07. Candidate's Identity. – The following documents will be
accepted to prove the Identity of the candidate at the interview :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of registration
of Persons ;
(ii) V alid Passport.
08. ( a) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach
the following address on or before 15.12.2013.
Applications received after this date will be rejected :
Secretary,
Ministry of Transport,
No. 01, D. R. Wijewardana Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
(b) A specimen of the application form to be submitted
appears at the end of this notification. Applicants
should prepare their applications in A4 size papers
and completed in his/her own handwriting, including
items 01 to 08 in the first page, items 09 to 15 in the
second page and items 16 to 17 in the third page. In the
top left hand cover of the enclosing the application A
should be stated "Application for recruitment to the
Post of Legal Officer in the Ministry of Transport".
(c) The signature of the candidate in the application should
be attested by the Head of a Government School/Justice
of the Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/
Notary Public/Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces or an officer holding a permanent post in the
government service receiving a monthly consolidated
salary of Rs. 22,935.
(d) Officers presently serving in the state services or
Provincial State Service should submit their applications
through the Head of the Department in which they are
serving.
(e) Applications not in conformity with the attached
specimen application form will be rejected. Complaints
regarding any loss or delay of applications will not be
entertained.
09. Furnishing false information.– Any information given in the
application submitted by you is detected to be false or incorrect
prior to recruitment your candidature will be cancelled.
Any such false or incorrect information detected after recruitment
action will be taken to dismiss from service subject to relevant
procedure.
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right of making
the final decision on any other matter what so ever not provided
herein or the right of filling or not filling the vacancies.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Transport.
No. 01,
D. R. Wijewardana Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
For office use
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
M
INISTRY OF TRANSPORT
POST APPLIED FOR POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
01. (i) Name with initials (Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
(ii) Name with initials (English) :–––––––––––.
(iii) Name denoted by initials (Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
(iv) Name denoted by initials (English) :–––––––––––.
02. Address :
(i) Official :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private :–––––––––––.
03. Telephone Numbers :
(i) Official :–––––––––––.
(ii) Private :–––––––––––.
04. (i) Present post and place of work :–––––––––––.
(ii) Date of appointment to the said post :–––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
06. (i) Sex :–––––––––––.
(ii) Whether maried, unmarried, Widow or Widower :––––.
07. (i) Date of birth :
Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
(ii) Age on closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :–––––––.
08. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration ?  :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2013
2219
09. Educational and Professional Qualifications :
(a) Details of pass, professional and/or technical
qualifications should be attached :
Examination Y ear Main Pass Name of the
Subjects Institution
(b) Year of taking oaths by the applicant as an Attorney-at-
Law of the Supreme Court :–––––––––––.
(c) Period served as an attorney up to the closing date of
applications :
10. Experience :
(i) Institute :–––––––––––.
(ii) Period of Service :–––––––––––.
11. Experience in computer literacy :–––––––––––.
12. Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
13. Proficiency in English Language :–––––––––––.
14. Other relevant information :–––––––––––.
15. Whether applicant has appeared in Courts for any criminal
offence prior to this ? If so details in that regards :––––––––.
16. According to Chapter V of Procedural Rules of the Public
Service Commission whether you are not qualified for
appointment to the Public Service :–––––––––––.
17. I do hereby declare that the foregoing particulars are true and
accurate.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
18. Attesting Applicant Signature :
Mr./Mrs. ............................. applying for the post of legal Officer
in the Ministry of Transport in personally known to me and signed
before me on .......................... 2013.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Date :–––––––––––.
Place :–––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Official Stamp :–––––––––––.
19. Certificate of the Head of Department/Head of Institute :
The application of Mr./Mrs./Miss. ............................. holding
the post of ............................ in this institute, who is applying for
the post of Legal Officer in the Ministry of Transport is
recommended and forwarded.
His/her work and conduct is satisfactory and certify that no
disciplinary action has been taken or contemplated against him/her.
In case he/she can/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the  Department/Institute.
Official Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
11–539
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.