

<!-- page 1 -->

6 Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and
Thakiyas Development Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PERIYA  MOULANA,  ZAIN  MOULANA
SHRINES  AND  THAKIYAS  DEVELOPMENT
SOCIETY  (INCORPORATION)
ACT, N O .26 OF 1999
[Certified on 30th  August, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  September 03, 1999.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs.4.50 Postage: Rs.3.50
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and
Thakiyas Development Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 1999
[Certified on  30 th  August , 1999]
L.D.- O. 58/96.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  PERIY A M OULANA , ZAIN
M OULANA  SHRINES  AND  THAKIYAS  DEVELOPMENT  SOCIETY
WHEREAS   a   Development Society called and Known as
the “Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and Thakiyas
Development Society heretofore been formed for the
purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all objects
and matters connected with the said Development Society
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Development Society has
heretofore successfully carried out and transacted the
several objects for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the Periya Moulana, Zain
Moulana Shrines and Thakiyas Development Society
(Incorporation) Act, No.26 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are the  members of
the Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and Thakiyas
Development Society (hereinafter referred to as the
“Development Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the “Corporation”)
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and Thakiyas
Development Society” and by that name may sue and be sued
in all courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
Preamble
Short title.
Incorporation
of Periya
Moulana, Zain
Moulana
Shrines and
Thakiyas
Development
Society.
H-022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and
Thakiyas Development Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 1999
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be -
(a) to assist in the rehabilitation, maintenance,
development and upkeep of the Shrines and
Thakiyas and the places of Muslim religious
pilgrimage and resort ;
(b) to promote the welfare, comfort and well being of
pilgrims who may visit, venerate or seek succour
and rest in, such places of pilgrimage, or who de-
sire to observe Islamic rules of worship and prayer;
(c) to promote in general, the religious, cultural,
educational and economic well being and Welfare
of Muslims ;
(d) to provide relief and aid to the poor, the needy the
sick and the aged of the Muslim faith visiting the
Shrines and Thakiyas, and any other relief such as
the provisions of social services, Educational and
Training facilities of all manner and description to
the Muslim Community in general ;
(e) to establish and maintain a Muslim religious school
for the teaching of Quran and the Arabic Language;
and
(f)do such other acts and things as  are conducive or
incidental to the attainment of all or any of the above
objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
and furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them , including the power to open, operate or close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys, with or without security,
to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest and
expend its funds, and to engage employ and dismiss officers
and servants required  for  the carrying  out  of  the objects of
Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.
General powers
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and
Thakiyas Development Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 1999
     5.(1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Trustees elected in accordance
with such rules.
(2) The first Board of Trustees of the Corporation shall
be the Board of Trustees of the Development Society  holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of this
Act and whose names are specified in the Schedule to this
Act.
    6.(1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting  and by a  majority of  the
 members who are the descendants of the Seyed Zain Sakhaff
Moulana family present and voting, to make rules not incon-
sistent with the provisions  of this act and any other written
law, for the admission , withdrawal and expulsion of members
of the Corporation, for the election of the office-bearers and
the Board of  Trustees and their powers conduct and duties,
for the procedure to be followed at the meetings of the
Corporation and the Board of Trustees and generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
accomplishment of its objects. Such rules when made may, at
a like meeting and in like manner be altered, added   to, amended
or rescinded.
(2) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
7. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virture of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act and subject to the rules in force for the time being of
the Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and
Thakiyas Development Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 1999
8. All debts and liabilities of the Development
Society existing on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act, shall be paid by the Corporation
hereby constituted and all debts due to and subscriptions
and contributions payable to the Development society on
that day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence at least of
two members of the Board of Trustees who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from, or under ,
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail
                                                 S
CHEDULE                     [section 5 (2)]
BOARD  OF  TRUSTEES
1. His Eminence Saiyad Omar Zain Barulba Alavi Moulana.
2. His Eminence Seyed Ali Hibsny Moulana.
3. His Eminence Saiyed Aftharb Omar Barulba Alavi
Moulana.
4. His Eminence Saiyad Tharbish Omar Barulba Alavi
Moulana.
Debts due by and
payable to the
Development
Society.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Periya Moulana, Zain Moulana Shrines and
Thakiyas Development Society (Incorporation)
Act, No. 26 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180 (Foreign),
Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT . GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32, TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.