

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
w;s úfYI EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notifications
wxl 1936$50 – 2015 Tlaf;dan¾ 15 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2015'10'15
No. 1936/50 – THURSDAY, OCTOBER 15, 2015
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
My No.: CI/1816.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT,  CHAPTER  131
The Collective Agreement entered  into between Hayleys  Agriculture  Holdings Limited, 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10  of the one part and
The Inter Company Employees’ Union, No. 259/9, Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta,  Thalangama of the other part on 20th day of January 2015
is hereby published in terms of Section 06 of the Industrial Disputes Act, Chapter 131, of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (Revised
Edition 1956).
M. D. C. AMARATHUNGA,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
06th October, 2015.
Collective Agreement No. 12  of  2015
THIS COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT made this Twentieth day of January Two Thousand Fifteen to take effect from the First day of
November Two Thousand and Fourteen pursuant to the Industrial Disputes Act between
HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED, having its registered office at 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10. (hereinafter referred to
as the ‘‘Employer’’,) of the One Part
and
THE INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES' UNION a registered  Trade Union having its office at 259/9 Sethsiri Mawatha, Koswatta,
Thalangama (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Union’) of the Second Part
Witnesseth and it is hereby agreed between the parties as follows:-
Title: This Agreement shall  be known and refered to  as the HAYLEYS  AGRICULTURE  HOLDINGS  LIMITED  KOTTAWA
FACTORY  MANUAL  WORKERS'  COLLECTIVE  AGREEMENT  OF  2014.
1A – G022493 – 09 (2015/10)

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
PART I
CONTAINING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYMENT AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO AND CONNECTED
THEREWITH.
1. Persons Covered and Bound.– This Agreement shall cover and bind the Employer, the Union and the Members of  the Union who
are employed  and are working at the Factory at  168/D, Brahmanagama,  Kottawa of the  Employer in a  manual or labouring capacity on
monthly contracts of employment as at the date of signing this Agreement and for whom provision has been made in the wage scales set  out
in schedules  1 and 2 of  this Agreement. For employees recruited to the permanent  cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd. after First Jun e Two
Thousand and Eight and for new employees  recruited directly under the Employer, provision has been made in the Wage Scales set out in
Schedule 3 of this Agreement and Clauses 15 and 20 shall not apply to such employees.
2. Date of Operation  and Duration.– This Agreement shall be effective as from the First day of November Two Thousand and
Fourteen and shall thereafter  continue  in force unless it is determeined by either party giving notice in terms of  the Industrial Disputes Act
in writing to the other subject to the following provisos:
(a) That one party hereto shall not give such notice to the other party before the Thirty First day of October Two Thousand and
Seventeen and no notice given  before that date shall be regarded as valid.
(b) That in the event of a reduction in the par value of the Sri  Lankan Rupee under any provision of law, a party shall be at liberty
to abrogate this Agreement by giving one month's notice in writing to the other in terms of the Industrial Disputes Act.
3. General Terms and Conditions of Employment.– During the continuance in force of this Agreement the terms and conditions of
this Agreement shall be deemed to be included in each contract of service between the Employer bound by this  Agreement and an Employee
covered and bound by this Agreement  whether such contract of service be written or oral, which was subsisting on the date hereof or which
shall come into being at any time after the date hereof during the continuance in force of this Agreement.
4. New Employees.– The Company will be entitled to recruit employees to the permanent cadre after the date hereof and place them
on a suitable point in the Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3, if required. Such new employees will not be covered by clauses 15 and 20 of this
Agreement. The Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3 hereto includes the Statutory Allowances as at the date of this Agreement.
5. Probation.– Every Employee recruited by the Employer shall serve a period of probation of not more than six (6) months.
Provided however, that if during the six (6) months probationary period the  Employer is not satisfied with the progress of such Employee,
the probationary period may be extended for a further period of three (3) months and in that event the Employer shall indicate to the
Employee in writing the reasons why the probationary period has been extended.  During the period of probation or extended probation the
Employer shall have the right to terminate the Services of the Employee without notice.
6. Attendance.–
(1) Unless otherwise specifically instructed by his Employer an Employee shall present himself for work on everyday (other
than a holiday) at the usual starting time of the store, factory, mill or job and shall there remain available for work throughout
the normal working hours.
(2) If, at a store, factory, mill or job, work is temporarily not available for an Employee in  his own occupation he shall be deemed
to be ready and willing to perform work within the capacity and skill in any other occupation at any other work site of the
Employer where work is available.
(3) Irregular attendance or unpunctuality of an Employee shall constitute neglect of duty for which he shall be liable to
appropriate disciplinary action.
7. Hours of Work.– The hours of work on a normal working day or on a shift shall be nine and one half (9 1/ 2) hours inclusive of
a half (1/ 2) hour interval for lunch and two fifteen minutes intervals for tea. (Please note that the decision to work a five day week was arrived
at consequent to the Fuel Conservation Law of 1973 and the request made by the employees to continue with the same work arrangements
after the repeal of the Law. Therefore, currently the employees enjoy the benefit of an additional holiday on the short working day which
is presently on Saturday).
8. Forfeiture of Wages.– Unless for good cause shown to the satisfaction of the Employer and Employee fails to hold himself
available for work throughout the normal working hours of each working day he shall forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct his
wages for the period from the time at which such failure occurs until he is again available for work.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
3A
9. Overtime.–
(1) If required by his Employer, an Employee shall work reasonable overtime which has been authorized by the Employer.
Refusal to work reasonable overtime in the absence of a satisfactory explanation which is acceptable to the Employer shall
constitute neglect of duty for which an Employee shall be liable to appropriate disciplinary action.
(2) Overtime work (that is work performed in excess of normal working hours) shall be remunerated at one and half (11/2) times
the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19(a) hereof.
10. Weekly Holiday.–
(1)  In respect of each week every Employee shall be allowed a paid holiday on a Sunday in that week as the weekly holiday
provided however, that if an Employee has not worked for a period of at least twenty eight (28) hours, exclusive of any
period of overtime work during that week, he shall be liable to forfeit and his Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day's
wage in respect of the weekly holiday for that week computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 (b) hereof.
(2) In computing the period of twenty eight (28) hours referred to in sub-clause (1) the Employer shall include -
(a) Every holiday allowed by the Employer to the Employee as annual holiday;
(b) Every public holiday granted by the Employer in terms of clause 12 hereof;
and
(c) Every day’s absence on any ground approved by the Employer.
(3) The Employer may employ any Employee on a weekly holiday subject to the following conditions:
(i) A day within the six days next succeeding such weekly holiday shall be allowed to that Employee as a holiday with
remuneration. Provided however, that if any Employee who is employed on a weekly holiday is liable to forfeit and the
Employer is entitled to deduct one day’s wage in respect of that weekly holiday as provided in sub-clause (1) then and
in such event that Employee shall forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct one day’s wage computed in
accordance with the provisions of clause 19(b) hereof in respect of the holiday which shall be allowed to that Employee
within six (6) days of that weekly holiday. Provided further, that in respect of not more than two (2) such weekly
holidays in any one calendar month the Employer may with the consent of the Employee–
(a) Instead of allowing an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday in respect of which that
Employee shall not be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall not be entitled to deduct one day’s wage as aforesaid,
pay him one day’s wage computed in accordance with the provisions of clause 19(b) hereof in lieu of such alternate
holiday, or
(b) In case that Employee is entitled to an alternate holiday within six (6) days of the weekly holiday as aforesaid in
respect of which alternate holiday he shall be liable to forfeit and the Employer shall be entitled to deduct a day’s
wage as aforesaid, employ that Employee on the alternate holiday.
(ii) T hat in respect of work done on such weekly holiday the Employee shall be paid as remuneration–
(a) One and one half (1 1/2) times the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 (a)
hereof for the number of hours worked during the first nine (09) hours (exclusive of one (1) hour for a meal); and
(b) At double the normal hourly rate ascertained in accordance with the provisions of clause 19 (a) hereof for each
subsequent hour of work.
The provisions of this Sub-clause shall not apply to employees engaged on work outside the business premises of the Employer
for periods exceeding twelve (12) hours in respect of the duration of each such period.
(4) Saturday shall be a non-working day and  where an Employee does not qualify for a paid weekly holiday in tems of this clause
he shall forfeit three fifth of his pay for Saturday if he has worked only 2 days in the week; four fifth of his pay for Saturday
if he has worked only one day in the week and shall receive no pay for the Saturday if he has not worked on any day in the
week. For the purpose of this Sub-clause days worked will be reckoned in terms of sub-clause (2) above.
11. Annual Holidays.– An employee will be entitled to a maximum of fourteen (14) days earned annual  leave in accordance with
the practice of the Company.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
12. Public Holidays.–
 (1) Public holidays shall be allowed to an Employee in accordance with the practice of the Company. Provided however, that
an Employee may be employed on a public holiday in accordance with the practice of the Company.
(2) If any public holiday which an Employee is eligible to under the provisions of sub-clause (1) falls on a Sunday, a day either
in the Six (6) days immediately preceding or in the six (6) days immediately succeeding such public holiday shall be granted
to the employee as a weekly holiday in accordance with the provisions of clause 10 hereof.
(3) If any public holiday to which an Employee is eligible under the provisions of sub clause (1) falls on a Saturday the number
of hours constituting the normal working day on the day immediately preceding such public holiday shall be four and one
half (4 1/ 2) hours and no interval for a meal shall be granted.
13. Casual Leave.–
(1) In respect of each year of employment during which any Employee has been continuously in employment  that  Employee
shall be entitled to take on account of private business or other reasonable cause including ill  health if that Employee’s
entitlement to sick leave has been fully utilized, leave (hereinafter referred to as ‘Casual Leave’) with remuneration for the
period or an aggregate of periods not exceeding seven (7) days and the Employer shall allow such Casual Leave and shall be
liable to pay such remuneration. Provided however, that not more than two (2) days casual leave shall be taken  at any time
save  and except upon the ground of ill health. Provided  further that any employee shall not be entitled to take Casual Leave
immediately preceding or immediately following any period  of annual holidays. Provided further that in respect of any
employee’s first year of employment including any period of probation he shall be entitled to Casual Leave  for that year
computed on the basis of one day for each complete period of two months’ service.
(2) Casual leave will normally be granted on application without the Employee being required to state the reason for the
application. Where  an Employer finds it difficult to grant an application for Casual Leave his difficulty shall be notified to
the Employee as soon as possible after the application is made and in such case the Employee may be required to state the
reason for the application in order that the Employer may decide whether it is reasonable in the circumstances to grant him
Casual Leave.
14. Sick Leave.-
(1) In any year an Employee covered by Wage Scales set out in schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement shall be entitled to Sick
Leave not exceeding twenty-one (21) days provided that:
(a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his  Employer),
and
(b) The Employee shall not be on probation with in the meaning of Clause  5 hereof. Provided, however, that an employee
who has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of
employment be entitled to sick leave not exceeding ten (10) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months' probation and
sick leave not exceeding five (5) days if he is confirmed after nine (9) months's probation.
(2) In any year an employee recruited to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June Two Thousand and Eight
and for new employees recruited directly under the Employer covered by the wage Scale set out in Schedule 3 of this
Agreement shall  be entitled to sick leave not exceeding 7 days  Provided that:
(a) His illness is supported by a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner (unless waived by his  Employer),
and
(b) The employee shall not be on probation within the meaning of Clause  5 hereof. Provided, however, that an employee
who has been on probation shall as from the date of confirmation in respect of the remainder of the first year of
employment be entitled to sick leave not exceeding Five (05) days if he is confirmed after six (6) months' probation and
Sick Leave not exceeding three (03) days  if he is confirmed after nine (9) months probation.
15. Monthly Consolidated Wages in lieu of CCPI consolidation .–
(1) Subject to the provisions of Clause 16 hereof, each employee shall be paid upon and subject to the other terms and
conditions herein contained, a monthly consolidated wage on the basis of the scales of consolidated wages set out in the
Schedules 1 and 2 hereto.
(2) The scales of consolidated wages set out in  Schedules 1 and 2 hereto include the Statutory allowances as at the date of this
Agreement.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
5A
(3) The wages of employees who are in employment as at the date of this Agreement and for whom provision has been made
in the wage scales set out in schedules 1 and 2 of this Agreement will be revised as follows:
(a) A sum of Rs. 800/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
September Two Thousand and Fifteen.
(b) A sum of Rs. 800/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
September Two Thousand and Sixteen.
(c) A sum of Rs. 800/- would be added to the wages payable to each Employee with effect from the First day of
September Two Thousand and Seventeen.
(4) Employees recruited to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June Two Thousand and Eight and for new
employees recruited derectly under the Employer, and for whom provision has been made in the Wage Scale set out in
Schedule 3 hereto, shall not be covered by the provisions of this Clause and therefore would not be entitled to the
aforementioned payments.
16. Conversion to Scales of Monthly Consolidated Wages.–
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining the wage which an employee shall receive with effect from the First day of November Two
Thousand and Fourteen on the basis of the consolidated wages set out in the Schedules 1, 2 and 3 hereto the following
provisions shall apply:
(i) The monthly consolidated wage payable to an employee who is in receipt of a monthly consolidated wage of less than
Rupees Fifteen Thousand as at the Thirty First day of October Two Thousand and Fourteen will be revised to Rupees
Fifteen Thousand.
(ii) To the monthly consolidated wage payable to an employee who is in receipt of a monthly consolidated wage between
Rupees Fifteen Thousand and Twenty Thousand as at the Thirty First day of October Two Thousand and Fourteen an
amount equal to 15% of the wage payable to such employee as at the date shall be added.
(iii) To the monthly consolidated wage payable to an employee who is in receipt of a monthly consolidated wage exceeding
Rupees Twenty Thousand as at the Thirty First day of October Two Thousand and Fourteen an amount equal to 12%
of the wage payable to such employee as at the date shall be added.
(2) Each employee shall thereafter be placed on the corresponding point of the wage scales set out in Schedules 1, 2 and 3 in
the scale and grade applicable to him. If there is no corresponding point he shall be placed on the next highest point on the
same scale and grade in monetary terms.
(3) If during the continuance in force of this Agreement the Government of Sri Lanka –
(a) Prescribes increases in wages by any written law applicable to categories covered by this Agreement legally obliging
the Employer to make such payment, the Employer shall pay such increases in wages prescribed by such written law
and in terms of such written law;
(b) Recommends increases in wages such recommendations will not be applicable to the Employer, irrespective of
whether or not such recommendations are applicable to categories covered by this Agreement.
17. Productivity Bonus Scheme.– The Employer will continue to pay a Productivity bonus in accordance with the Productivity
Bonus Schemes set out in Schedules 4 and 5 of this Agreement. The norms mentioned in Schedule 4 will be the level of production to be
achieved by the employees on a daily basis during normal working hours.
18. Attendance Bonus Scheme.– Employees who are not entitled to receive a payment under the Productivity Bonus Scheme set
out in Clause 17 and schedules 4 and 5 of this Agreement shall be entitled to receive an Attendance Bonus of Rs. 3000/- per month provided
that the said employee reports for work on at least 80% of his nomal working days. An employee who registers any unauhorized absence
will not be entitled to any payment under this clause in respect of that particular month.
19. Wages for Periods Less Than One Month.– For the purpose of this Agreement the wages of any employee for periods less than
one month shall be computed in the manner following:

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
(a) for one hour the monthly wage divided by two hundred and forty (240)
(b) for one day the monthly wage divided by thirty (30)
(c) for one half day a day’s wage ascertained as above divided by two (2)
(either morning or afternoon)
(d) for one week a day’s wage ascertained as above multiplied by seven (7)
20. Annual Lump sum payment in lieu of non-Recurring cost of living gratuity.–
(1) A lump sum payment on an ex gratia basis would be made to the employees for whom provision has been made in the Wage
Scales set out in Schedules 1 and 2 on the following basis:
(a) A Sum of Rs. 16,000/- payable in September 2015 for the period 01 September 2014 to 31 August 2015.
(b) A Sum of Rs. 16,000/- payable in September 2016 for the period 01 September 2015 to 31 August 2016.
(c) A Sum of Rs. 16,000/- payable in September 2017 for the period 01 September 2016  to 31 August 2017.
(2) No Provident Fund, Trust Fund, Overtime or any other payment shall be due or calculated on these ex-gratia payment.
(3) Employees recruited to the permanent cadre of Haychem (Pvt) Ltd after First June 2008 and new employees recruited
directly under the Employer and for whom provision has been made in the Wage Scale set out in Schedule 3 hereto, shall not
be covered by the provisions of this Clause and therefore would not be entitled to the aforementioned payments.
21. Provident Fund.–
(1) The Employer and an Employee shall contribute to the Provident Fund at rates prescribed by the Employees’ Provident
Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958.
22. Terminal Benefits.– The Employer will pay terminal benefits to Employees in accordance with the Gratuity Act, No. 12 of
1983.
23. Bonus .–
(1) Without prejudice to existing bonus schemes and without prejudice to the Employer’s claim that bonus payment
in the past and as provided in this Agreement are ex-gratia , the Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided,
continue to pay to each of his employees a bonus which will not be less than the sum of money paid to him as his
bonus for the year immediately preceding the signing of the  Agreement. If in any year the Employer, in his
discretion reduces the bonus to an amount less than the sum of money paid to each of his Employees as bonus for the
year immediately preceding the signing of this Agreement the Union may canvas such reduction of bonus with the
Employer concerned. If the Union is not satisfied by the Employer in the matter, the Union may pursue this matter with
the Employers Federation of Ceylon. If the dispute as to the reduction of bonus is not settled with the Federation, the same
shall be referred to a committee of three (3) persons (hereinafter referred to as a 'Bonus Committee') which shall be
constituted in accordance with the provisions of sub-clause 2 for settlement  in the manner hereinafter set forth.
(2) At the written request of the parties to the dispute as to the reduction of the bonus the Commissioner General of Labour
will constitute  a Bonus Committee which shall consist of three (3) senior accountants nominated by  the Council of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants  of Sri Lanka. The said Chartered Accountants shall be persons with at least ten (10)
years post qualification experience. The selection of the three Chartered Accountants will be communicated by the Institute
of Chartered Accountants to the Commissioner General of Labour, the Employer, the Union  and to the Federation.
Thereupon the Commissioner General of Labour will communicate in writing to each  member of the Bonus Committee so
constituted a statement of principles and procedures by which the members of  the Bonus Committee shall be bound in
settling the dispute as to the reduction of Bonus.
(3) Upon receipt  of the submissions and the statement of the principles and procedures from the Commissioner General of
Labour the Bonus Committee shall in accordance with the said principles and procedures decide whether the reduction of
the bonus by the Employer was justified and if the reduction was not justified to what extent, if any, the bonus should  be
reduced. The Bonus Committee shall communicate its decision in writing to the Employer, the Union, the Federation and
the Commissioner General of Labour. If the decision of the Bonus Committee is unanimous, such decision shall be final and
binding on the parties to the dispute  and the Union and / or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form
of Trade  Union action or otherwise during the continuance in force of this Agreement. If, however, the Bonus Committee
is divided in its decision then the decision of the Commissioner General of Labour on the matter shall be final and binding
on the parties to the dispute and the Commissioner General's decision shall be communicated in writing to the Federation,
and the Union or its members shall not pursue the matter further by any form of Trade Union action or otherwise during
the continuance in force of this Agreement.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
7A
(4) The Bonus committee shall not be entitled nor be competent to decide that in any year the Employer should pay his
Employees a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as bonus as in the year immediately preceding the signing of this
Agreement.
(5) The fees payable to the members of the Bonus committee shall be borne equally by  the parties  to the dispute as to the
reduction of bonus and be payable on demand by the Commissioner General of Labour.
(6) The payment of a bonus exceeding the sum of money paid as  bonus to employees in the year immediately preceding the
signing of this Agreement shall be in the sole discretion of the Employer and  shall  not be called in question by the Union and
/ or its members nor shall the Employer's failure or refusal to pay such bonus be the subject of any dispute.
(7) The provisions of sub-clauses (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) and (6) shall mutatis mutandis apply to the  existing  bonus scheme.
(8) At the request of  the Commissioner General of Labour the Council of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka
will nominate three (3) chartered accountants with not less than ten (10) years of post qualification experience drawn from
professional accountancy firms  to serve on the Bonus Committee.
24. Annual Increments.–
(1) The annual increments provided in each grade of the scales of consolidated wages in Schedules 1, 2 and 3 shall be automatic,
unless as a matter of punishment for general inefficiency including irregular attendance or unpunctuality or disciplinary
action on account of serious misconduct an increment is suspended, stopped or deferred in which case where an increment
is –
(a) Deferred, the loss of increment shall be continuous throughout the year;
(b) Stopped, the loss of increment shall  only be for the period of stoppage during the year;
(c) Suspended, the increment is suspended pending a decision to defer or stop an increment, such decision being
dependent upon a consideration of the factors giving rise to the suspension.  Where on such decision and increment
is neither stopped nor deferred, then the suspension shall be treated as waived and the full increment from the date
of suspension thereof shall occur to the employee concerned.
Deferment, stoppage or suspension of an increment shall only be effected in cases where the Employee  has been notified, in writing  of a
complaint against such Employee and has been found guilty  after due inquiry  of inefficiency, fraud or misconduct which in the circumstances
dose not merit termination of employment.
(2) The incremental rates as stipulated in respect of the consolidated scales of wages set out in Schedules 1, 2 and 3 hereof and/
or may  be revised thereafter  in terms of clause 15  (3) shall be as  set out hereunder.
Schedule 1
Grade III 10  x Rs. 100/-
10  x Rs. 105/-
179  x Rs. 115/-
Grade II 199  x Rs. 80/-
Grade I 199  x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 1
Skilled 149  x Rs. 125/-
Semi -Skilled 149  x Rs. 105/-
Unskilled 149  x Rs. 65/-

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
Schedule 1
Class B 199  x Rs. 105/-
Class G 199  x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 2
Grade 3 10  x Rs. 100/-
10  x Rs. 105/-
179  x Rs. 115/-
Grade 2 199  x Rs. 80/-
Grade 1 199  x Rs. 65/-
Schedule 3
Grade 3 10  x Rs. 100/-
10  x Rs. 105/-
179  x Rs. 115/-
Grade 2 199  x Rs. 80/-
Grade 1 199  x Rs. 65/-
(3) This agreement shall not have  the  effect of changing the incremental date of an Employee.
25. Warnings.–
If in the opinion of the Employer an offence warrants a   warning the same shall be conveyed to the Employee, by a letter, a duplicate
of which shall be signed by the Employee. If the Employee refuses to sign the duplicate the warning   may be given to the Employee
orally by the Employer in the presence of two witnesses.
26. Suspension.–
(1) An employee may be suspended without pay by his Employer -
(a) Pending an inquiry to be held by the Employer on a charge or charges of misconduct which  warrants dismissal;
(b) In order to avoid a breach of the peace or damage to the property or disturbance of business of the Employer;
(c) As a punishment for misconduct for a period not exceeding seven (7) working days after the inquiry;
(2) At the time of suspension under sub-clause (1)(a) or within twenty-four (24) hours thereof the Employer shall provide the
Employee with a written order of suspension specifying the reasons for such suspension and thereafter, hold an inquiry into
the charge or charges in terms of clause 27 hereof.
27. Disciplinary Action.– Where the Employer proposes to proceed against an Employee then –
(1) Irrespective of whether an Employee has been suspended under Clause 26 hereof or not, the  Employee shall be furnished
with a show cause notice which shall set out the particulars of the charge or charges of misconduct alleged against such
Employee and such show cause notice shall give the Employee not less than five (5) clear working days in which to give the
answer or explanation to the charge or charges preferred.
(2) Within five (5) clear working days after the date of the show cause notice, the Employee shall furnish in writing to the
Employer, the answer or explanation to the charges preferred against such Employee. Provided however that if in the
circumstances it is reasonable, the employee may ask the Employer for an extension of time within which to furnish a written
answer or explanation to the show cause notice  and where such request is made by the Employee to the Employer, the
Employer shall grant such request for such further period of time as is deemed necessary in the circumstances of the case.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
9A
(3) If the Employer  is satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee, the Employee shall, if he is under
suspension  forthwith be reinstated and shall  be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of such suspension.
(4) If the Employer is not satisfied with the written answer or explanation of the Employee to the show cause notice and such
answer or explanation is rejected by the Employer, the Employer shall commence an inquiry within fourteen (14)  working
days from the date of receipt by him of the written answer or explanation to the show cause notice.
(5) After holding such inquiry the Employer shall notify the  Employee of the findings of each of the charges in the show cause
notice and the punishment, If any, imposed by the Employer. Provided that if the Employer fails to make an order except for
reasons beyond the control of the Employer on the charges in the show cause notice within thirty (30)  working days from
the conclusion of the inquiry into such charges, the Employee shall not be liable to be punished thereafter in respect of such
charges and no inference adverse to the Employee in respect of such charges shall be drawn from such charges.
(6) If the employee is under suspension and the Employer after such inquiry makes order that –
(a) The employee shall not be dismissed then the Employee shall resume employment forthwith and shall subject to the
provisions of sub-clause 26(1)(c) hereof be paid all wages and entitlements due for the period of suspension irrespective
of such other punishment less than dismissal that may be imposed by the Employer on the findings as to the charges
in the show cause notice;
(b) The employee shall be dismissed, the Employee’s dismissal shall take effect from the date of the Employee’s suspension
and accordingly the Employee shall not be paid for the period of such suspension;
(c) In view of the serious or involved nature of the charges in the show cause notice against the Employee, the Employer
is unable to make a final order as it is necessary and desirable that the matter be referred to the Police or other authorities
for further investigations or inquiries and that the matter be therefore referred to Police or  other authorities or if in view
of the serious or involved nature of the charges preferred against the Employee the matter had been previously referred
to the Police or other authorities for investigations or inquiries that the outcome of such investigations or inquiries be
awaited, then in either of such circumstances the employee may remain suspended without pay.
(7) If in any case where an Employee is suspended as provided for herein the Employer fails to make order under paragraphs (a)
to (c) of the preceding sub-clause for any reason other than that of the Employee’s own seeking within thirty (30) working
days from  the date of the Employee’s suspension, the Employee shall be entitled to half his normal remuneration for a period
of thirty (30) days from the date of such suspension and to his full remuneration for the period of suspension in excess of
thirty (30) days up to the date on which the Employer makes and order under paragraphs ( a) to (c) of the preceding  sub-
clause, irrespective of the outcome of the inquiry.
(8) In any case where the Employee is suspended as provided herein, the Employer shall make an order under paragraphs
(a) to (c) of  sub-clause 6 within ninety (90) days of the date of suspension of the Employee unless he is prevented from so
doing by reason of the Employee’s own seeking or for reasons beyond the control of the Employer or it is agreed between the
Employer and the Union that in the circumstances of the case the period of  ninety (90) days be extended for such further time
as may be agreed.
(9) The Employer shall not be required to hold an inquiry as referred to in sub-clauses 4 and 5 hereof where the Employer
proposes to warn the Employee or where the Employee admits to the charge or charges. Provided however, that if the Union
disputes the warning or punishment imposed on the Employee by the Employer and requests the holding of an inquiry the
Employer shall comply with such request and the provisions relating to the holding of an inquiry shall then apply subject to
the exception that the fact that the inquiry had not commenced within fourteen (14) working days after the receipt of the
Employee’s explanation shall not be material or relevant.
(10) The Employer may, as an alternative to more serious disciplinary action, recover from an employee the cost of damage to or
loss of the Employer’s goods or property, or a percentage thereof, caused through the negligence of the employee as
determined at a domestic inquiry or on the admission of the Employee.
28. Retirement.– On reaching the age of fifty five (55) years an Employee shall ipso facto retire and cease to be Employed by the
Employer and there shall be no obligation on the Employer to give the Employee any notice of such retirement. Provided however, that an
Employee who has retired  may, at the discretion of the Employer, be employed after his retirement on a temporary basis on such terms as
may be mutually agreed.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
29. Termination of Services.-
(1) Every contract,whether oral or written, for the hire of any Employee by the Employer except for work usually performed
by the day, or by the job, or by the journey, shall (subject to the provisions of clause 5 hereof or unless otherwise expressly
stipulated) be deemed  and taken in law to be a contract for hire and service for the period of one month and to be renewable
from month to month and shall be deemed and taken in law to be so renewed, unless one month’s previous notice be given
by either party to the other of his intention to determine the same and such month has expired.
(2) Where an Employee is engaged for a particular job or period such as casual  or temporary work, he shall be informed thereof
at the commencement of his employment and his contract of service will terminate on the completion of the job or period
or the failure of the Employee to complete the job within reasonable time.
30. Union Recognition.- The Union shall be competent to make representations on behalf of any of its members bound by this
agreement who is employed in any workplace of the Employer bound by this Agreement. In regard to issues of general application or to the
effect of principle such as matters affecting general terms and conditions of employment either in the workplace or the trade as whole, the
following provisions shall apply.
(1) When the Union is  representative of not less than forty per cent. (40%) of the employees whose membership subscription
is not in arrears, the Employer of such employees will recognize the Union for the purpose of general claims and matters
and negotiate with it on that basis. If there is any other Union which is also representative of  not less than forty percent
(40%) of such employees the Employer will be at liberty to require that general claims and matters be discussed and
negotiated with the Union competent to make general demands by virtue of the requisite membership and not separately
with each such Union.
(2) When the Employer carries on more than one type of business or has more than one workplace and the claim or matter is
restricted to one type of business or one workplace but is applicable or capable of being applicable to other Employees in
the service of the Employer, the competence of the Union to make such claims or raise such matter shall be determined by
reference to the duly qualified members of such Union in proportion to the total number of Employees in the service of the
Employer in Sri Lanka.
(3) If it becomes necessary to decide the question whether at the establishment of the Employer the Union is, competent to
make general claims or raise general matters, the same shall be determined by a referendum which shall be held by the
Department of Labour and the result of such referndum shall be binding on the Employer and the Union and the parties
hereto.
31. Disputes procedure.–
(1) In the first instance the Union shall submit any demand  on behalf of its members to the Employer of such members and give
the Employer at least ten (10) working days’ time within which to reply. If in the Union’s opinion the Employer’s  reply
is unsatisfactory the Union and the Employer shall explore the possibility of reaching a settlement.
(2) When the union concludes that negotiations with the Employer and the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon have been
abortive it shall ask the Department of Labour to intervene and give the Department not less than ten (10) working day’s
to arrange Conference and/or discussions with a View to a settlement of the dispute. Negotiations under the aegis of the
Department of Labour shall then proceed until the Department of Labour reports failure.
(3) Subject to the provisions of clause 33 hereof all disputes between the Union and the Employer or between the parties
hereto shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
(4) Any party to this Agreement shall not instigate, support or engage in any unfair Labour practice during the currency of this
Agreement.
32. How Anomalies In The Course of Implementing this Agreement Shall be Dealt With .- Any anomaly, arising from the
implementation of this Agreement shall be settled by negotiation between the Employer and the Union and if the matter cannot be settled
by negotiation, it shall be settled in accordance with the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act and the regulations made thereunder.
33. Trade Union Action.– The Union and Employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in
force of this Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or other form of trade union action against the Employer, in respect of any dispute
between the Union or the Employees and the Employer, whether or not such dispute is  related to the  Agreement, except where such dispute
has been caused by an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of the union is mala
fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate activities of the union and/or its members or is grossly

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
11A
unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the union and/or its members. Provided however that at least seven (7) days notice in writing
shall be given by the union to the Employer, the Federation and the Commissioner General of Labour before the date of commencement of
any intended strike or other form of trade union action consequent upon an act of the Employer which in the opinion of the controlling body
(by whatsoever name called)  of the union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated to threaten or undermine the existence or the legitimate
activities of the union and/or its members is grossly unfair or seriously detrimental to the interest of the union and/or its members.
34. Variation of Terms and Conditions of Employment and Benefits.–
(1) The Union and the employees jointly and severally agree with the Employer that during the continuance in force of this
Agreement, they will not seek to vary, alter or  add to all or any of the terms and conditions of employment presently
applicable to any of the employees covered and bound by this agreement  as amended or altered  in terms of  this Agreement,
or all or any of the benefits presently enjoyed by  any of the employees covered and bound by this Agreement other than
by mutual agreement.
(2) The Employer agrees with the union and the Employees that the Employer shall not seek to vary, alter or withdraw all or
any of the benefits presently enjoyed by the employees other than by mutual agreement.
(3) Any dispute or difference arising from negotiations under the provision of sub-clauses 1 or 2 may be resolved by voluntary
arbitration but only if all the parties, concerned agree to submit such dispute or difference for settlement by voluntary
arbitration.
PART II
CONTAINING THE FACILITIES AND CONCESSIONS GRANTED BY THE EMPLOYER TO THE UNION
1. Breaches of  Collective Agreement.– If in the opinion of the Employer and the Federation, the Union shall commit a beach of
any of the terms of this Agreement, then and in any such event the Union shall cease to be entitled to enjoy the facilities and concessions
granted by the Employer in the succeeding clauses of this Part and same shall stand withdrawn without Prejudice to the Employer's right
to restore such facilities and consessions upon such terms and conditions as the Employer may decide.
2. Domestic Inquiries.– If  an employee who is furnished with a show cause notice in terms of clause 27 is a member of the
union, the following provisions shall apply to the inquiry held by the Employer pursuant to such show cause notice-
(a) The Employer will, subject as hereinafter provided, allow another member of the Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘an
Observer’) to be present as an observer without loss of wages for  absence from work.
(b) If the Employer who is served with a show cause notice desires an ‘Observer’ to be present at the inquiry to be held pursuant
to such show cause notice, he shall forty eight (48) hours at least before the time appointed for the commencement of the
inquiry submit to the Employer the name of such  Observer.
(c) An Observer may answer any questions which the person who conducts the inquiry may ask him, but an Observer shall not
be entitled to represent the Employee who is served with a show cause notice or otherwise partake in the inquiry.
(d) The person who conducts an inquiry shall be entitled to require an Observer who obstructs such inquiry, in any manner
whatsoever to withdraw therefrom and an Observer shall forthwith comply with such requirement.
(e) The absence of an Observer from the whole or part of an inquiry for any reason whatsoever shall not vitiate such inquiry, nor
the proceedings there at, nor the findings pursuant thereto.
3. Union Meetings.– The following Provisions shall apply to  Meetings of the Union:-
(a) In respect of each meeting, which the  Union desires to hold at the Employer’s premises, and application for permission shall
be previously made to the Employer.
(b) If the employer decides to grant permission, the Employer shall be entitled to impose inter-alia, one or more of the under
noted conditions:
(i) That no person other than an Employee in the service of that Employer shall be present at a meeting of the union;
(ii) On occasions such as the Annual General Meeting of the Union, office Bearers of the Parent Union may with the
previous approval of the employer, attend;
(iii) Fix a time limit within which a meeting of the Union  shall be concluded or adjourned.

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
(c) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that the terms on which permission to hold a meeting of the
Union is granted, are duly complied with.
(d) It shall be the duty of the Union and  its Office Bearers to ensure that no damage is caused in the course of the, or in connection
with a meeting of the Union to the Employer’s property or any other persons at the Employer’s  premises and the Union
shall indemnify the Employer and keep the Employer indemnified against any such damage.
4. Duty Leave.–
(1) The following provisions shall apply to duty leave –
Without prejudice to the right of the Employer, to refuse to grant permission if in his discretion the exigencies of the
circumstances warrant refusal, the Employer will generally grant permission for not less than two (2) office bearers of the
Union –
(a) To be present at conferences held under the aegis of the Employer or the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon or the
Department of Labour in connection with a dispute between the Union and the Employer.
or
(b) To attend inquiries before Industrial Courts, Arbitrators or Labour Tribunals –
without loss of wages for such absence.
(2) The Employer shall provide the President and the Secretary one day’s duty leave per month to attend meetings at the Union
Headquarters in connection with Union activities if required to do so by the Union. The Employer shall be informed of such
meetings at least 48 hours before the meeting and written approval should be obtained from the management.
(3) The Employer will, in his discretion, grant leave without remuneration to an Employee to attend a Trade Union course or
seminar or conference either in Sri Lanka or abroad unless the Employee concerned is entitled to annual or other holidays,
which he wishes to utilize for the purpose.
(4) The Employer shall grant a day’s duty leave for the branch committee not exceeding fourteen (14) employees to attend the
Annual Convention of the Parent Union. However, the Employer shall be informed of such meetings at least 48 hours
before the meeting and written approval should be obtained from the management.
5. Check-off.–
(1) The facility of check-off shall be granted, subject to Clause 1 of Part II hereof only so long as the Union represents no less
than forty (40) percent of the Employees covered and bound by this Collective Agreement.
(2) The Employer shall on the written request of an Employee deduct from the wages due to such Employees the current
monthly Union dues as are specified by the Employee to be payable monthly by the employee to the Union and remit the
amount so deducted to the Union in accordance with the procedure and upon and subject to the conditions hereinafter
setforth.
(3) Every employee who agrees to the deduction of Union dues from his wages shall sign a statement to that effect in the form
set out in Form No. 1 referred to as an ‘Authorization’.
(4) Every Employee shall be entitiled to withdraw his agreement to check-off at any time by signing a statement to that effect
in the form set out in Form No. 2 hereinafter referred to as a ‘Revocation’.
(5) As far as practicable deduction under an authorization shall commence from the wages due immediately after the date of
receipt of such authorization and shall continue thereafter untill the authorization is cancelled by a revocation.
(6) As far as practicable deductions under and authorization shall cease from the date of receipt of a revocation cancelling such
authorization. Provided however –
(a) That the Employer shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever to the Union or the Employee concerned for failure
to comply with sub-clause 5 or 6;
(b) that at his discretion the Employer shall be entitled not to make deductions by way of check-off in any month in which
the deductions from the Employee’s wages in that month exceed the deduction permitted by Law.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
13A
(7) The Employer shall not later than the tenth (10th) day of each month remit the Union dues deducted from the wages of the
Employees in the month immediately preceding, to the Treasurer of the Union in accordance with the tenor of each
authorization by a cheque payable to the Treasurer thereof and crossed ‘Account Payee’.
(8) The cheque shall be sent at the risk of the Union and the Employees concernd by post in a prepaid envelope addressed to
the Treasurer of the Union at its address for the time being.
(9) The Treasurer of the Union shall promptly acknowledge receipt of the cheque.
(10) The Employer shall not be liable to pay to the Union or the Treasurer on its behalf as aforesaid any sum other than the
Union’s dues actually deducted.
FORM No. 1
Name of Employer: HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Authorization
As I am an Employee working at the factory at 168D Brahmanagama, Kottawa, of the Employer covered and bound by the HAYLEYS
AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED COLLECTIVE AGREEMENT 2014, and I desire to avail myself of the facility for check-off
contained in the Collective Agreement to which I am eligible as a member of the INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES' UNION,  please deduct
from my wages each month a sum of Rupees ……………… (Rs.        ) in respect of my current monthly membership dues to the said Unio n
and remmit same to the said Union on my behalf. The first payment should please be made from my wages due immediately following the
date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) (Checkroll Number)
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)
FORM N
O. 2
Name of Employer :  HAYLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED
Revocation
With reference to the authorization submitted by me, please cease to deduct from my wages any further membership dues in favour  of
INTER COMPANY EMPLOYEES’ UNION, with effect from the wages next due to me immediately following the date hereof.
……………………………… ………………………………
(Date of signing) (Signature of Employee)
……………………………… ………………………………
(Full name of Employee) (Checkroll Number)
Received on ………………………………
(To be filled by the Employer)

<!-- page 14 -->

14A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
PART III
CONTAINING  DEFINITIONS OF CERTAIN WORDS
In Parts I and II of this Agreement unless excluded by the Subject or context, the following words shall have the meaning set opposite to
them.
Words Meaning
Branch Union The Branch Union at the factory at 168D, Brahmanagama, Kottawa
Check-off The act of the Employer deducting in terms of Clause 5 of Part II the subscriptions
payable to the Union by an employee from the latter’s pay.
Dispute Shall have the same meaning as in the Industrial Disputes Act.
Employee An employee covered and bound by this Agreement.
(For convenience sometimes referred to
as ‘he’ or its grammatical variations)
Employer HA YLEYS AGRICULTURE HOLDINGS LIMITED (PB 575)
Federation Employers’ Federation of Ceylon
Industrial Disputes Act The Indusrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950
Normal Incremental Date The date on which and employee would normally receive and increment
Relevant Wages Board The Wages Board which covers the Trade in which the particular employee is employed in
Union Inter Company Employees’ Union
W age The monthly wage according to the scales of  wages set out in Schedule 1, 2 and 3 hereto.
Week The period between midnight on any Saturday night and midnight on the succeeding
Saturday night.
Y ear A continuous period of twelve (12) months
Words importing the masculine gender shall include the feminine gender
Words importing the singular number shall include the plural and vice versa

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
15A
In witness hereof parties have hereunto set their hands on this Twentieth day of January Two Thousand and Fifteen at Colombo.


<!-- page 16 -->

16A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
SCHEDULE 1


<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
17A


<!-- page 18 -->

18A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
19A


<!-- page 20 -->

20A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
21A


<!-- page 22 -->

22A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
23A


<!-- page 24 -->

24A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
25A


<!-- page 26 -->

26A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
27A
SCHEDULE 2


<!-- page 28 -->

28A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
29A


<!-- page 30 -->

30A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
31A
SCHEDULE 3


<!-- page 32 -->

32A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
33A


<!-- page 34 -->

34A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015


<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
35A
SCHEDULE 4


<!-- page 36 -->

36A I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
SCHEDULE 4 (CONTINUED)


<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2015'10'15
PART I: S EC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.10.2015
37A
SCHEDULE 5
10 - 1134
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA
.