

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
471
471
wxl 1"855 - 2014 ud¾;= 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'03'21
No. 1,855 – FRIDAY , MARCH 21, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 474
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 482
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 11th April, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th
March, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,854 of 14.03.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
472
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
473
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
474
Posts – Vacant
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Open Recruitment to the Post of Publication Distribution
Assistant
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified candidates for recruitment
to the post of Publication Distribution Assistant of the Department
of Government Information.
1. 'Director General' in this notice refers to the Director General
of Government Information.
2. Structured Examination.– The date of the examination will be
decided by the Director General of Information. Candidates who
obtain maximum marks from a structured interview, based on their
rank will be appointed to the post.
Fields considered in Maximum
granting marks marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Additional Experience 40
Additional Professional Qualifications 35
Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100
3. Number of Appointments. – Steps will be taken to fill 05
vacancies of the posts of Publication Distribution Assistant of the
Department of Government Information on contractual basis under
the open recruitment.
4. Effective date of appointments.– Will be decided by the Director
General of Government Information.
5. Service conditions.– Selected candidates will be appointed to
the post of Publication Distribution Assistant of the Department of
Government Information subject to general conditions governing
public service appointments and amendments already done and would
be done in the future to those conditions.
6. The Public Service Commission has the authority to cancel the
appointments of candidates who fail to asume duties on the due date
and/or who reject or avoid to assume duties.
7. Salary/Allowances.– An allowance similar to the basic salary
step of PL 02-2006(A) salary code and the approved cost of living
allowance.
8. Qualifications.– At the closing date of applications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed G . C. E.
(O/L) in six (06) subjects at least with two credit passes
in less than two sittings.
(ii) Professional Qualifications.– Not applicable.
(iii) Experience.– Not applicable.
(iv) Physical Qualifications. – Each candidate should be
physically and psychologically fit to serve in any part of
Sri Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
(v) Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) All qualifications in regard to the appointment to the
post should be duly completed.
9. Age :
Minimum age : 18 years
Maximum age : 45 years
10. Method of application :
(a) Applications should be prepared according to the specimen
form of application attached to this notice using both sides
of an A4 sheet. Application should be filled in with
candidates own handwriting. Applications that do not
comply with the specimen form of application and
incomplete applications will be rejected without
notification. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the
application. Candidate must check whether the duly filled
in application complies with the specimen form of
application. Otherwise, it may be rejected.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered post
to reach the "Director General of Government Information,
Department of Government Information, No. 163,
Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05" before 15.04.2014 cite,
"Open Recruitemnt to the Post of Publication Distribution
Assistant of the Department of Government Information"
on the top left hand corner of the envelope, in which the
application forms is enclosed. Applications received after
the closing date will not be accpeted.
(c) Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected.
Complaints on misplacements or delays will not be
entertained.
11. If any candidate was found guilty of providing any false
information or suppressing any important information purposely,
he/she is liable to be dismissed.
12. Matters not covered by these regulations will be determined
by the Director General of Government Information.
Director General of Government Information,
Department of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
24th February, 2014.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
475
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For official use only)
OPEN RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF PUBLICATION DISTRIBUTION
ASSISTANT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
01. Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
02. Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English Block letters, starting initials
at the end : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
E. g.– SILV A, A. B.
2.2 Name in full in English Block Letters :––––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Personal address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.5 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,  Ind. Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10 Telephone Number (if available) :
03. Educational Qualifications :
First sitting : Year :–––––––––.  Index Number :––––––––––.
Subject Pass S ubject Pass
Second sitting : Year :–––––––––.  Index Number :––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
04. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
05. Experience :––––––––––.
06. Certification of the applicant.
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
03–437
––––––––––––––––
DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  INFORMATION
Open Recruitment to the Primary Semi-Technical Service
Category of the Department of Government Information
[Production Work Assistant (Maintenance)]
APPLICATIONS are called from qualified candidates for recruitment
to the posts of Primary Semi-Technical Service Category of the
Department of Government Information.
1. 'Director General' in this notice refers to the Director General
of Government Information.
2. Structured Examination.– The date of the examination will be
decided by the Director General of Information. Candidates who
obtain maximum marks from a structured interview, based on their
rank will be appointed to the Grade III of the post.
Fields considered in Maximum
granting marks marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Additional Experience 40
Additional Professional Qualifications 35
Skill demonstrated in the interview 05
Total 100
3. Number of Appointments.– Steps will be taken to fill 01 vacancy
of the post of Primary Semi-Technical Service Category of the
Department of Government Information [Production Work Assistant
(Maintenance)].

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
476
4. Effective date of appointments.– Will be decided by the Director
General of Government Information.
5. Service conditions.– Selected candidates will be appointed to
the post of Production Work Assistant Subject to General Conditions
governing Public Service appointments conditions and regulations in
the Recruitment Procedure of Primary Semi-Technical Service
Category of the Department of Government Information, approved
by the Public Service Commission on 23.04.2013 and amendments
already done and would be done in the future to the Recruitment
Procedure.
6. The Public Service Commission has the authority to cancel the
appointments of candidates who fail to assume duties on the due
date and/or who reject or avoid to assume duties.
7. Salary :
Salary Code Number : PL 02-2006(A)
Salary Scale : Rs. 12,210 -10x130 -10x145 - 10x160 - 12x170
- Rs. 18,600. Initial salary steps of the relevant category.
Grade Initial salary step Initial salary level
Rs.
III Step 01 12,210
II Step 12 13,665
I Step 22 15,120
Special Step 32 16,730
(The first Efficiency Bar examination should be passed within
03 years from the date of appointment, and the second
Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03
years from promotion to Class II, and the third Efficiency
Bar examination should be passed within 05 years from
promotion to Class I. The second official language
proficiency should be obtained according to Public
Administration Circular Number 07/2007 dated
28.05.2007).
8. Qualifications.– At the closing date of applications :
(i) Educational Qualifications.– Should have passed G . C. E.
(O/L) in six (06) subjects at least with two credit passes
in less than two sittings.
(ii) Professional Qualifications.– Should have obtain the NVQ
level 2 qualification relevant to the respective post as
determined by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission.
(iii) Experience.– Should have 02 years of experience relevant
to the post at a recognized organization.
(iv) Physical Qualifications. – Each candidate should be
physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri
Lanka and to discharge duties of the post.
(v) Other :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Should possess an excellent character,
(iii) All qualifications in regard to the appointment to the
post should be duly completed.
9. Age :
Minimum age : 18 years
Maximum age : 45 years
10. Method of application :
(a) Applications should be prepared according to the specimen
form of application attached to this notice using both sides
of an A4 sheet. Application should be filled in with
candidates own handwriting. Applications that do not
comply with the specimen form of application and
incomplete applications will be rejected without
notification. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the
application. Candidate must check whether the duly filled
in application complies with the specimen form of
application. Otherwise, it may be rejected.
(b) Completed applications should be sent by registered post
to reach the Director General of Government Information,
Department of Government Information, No. 163,
Kirulapona Avenue, Colombo 05 before 15.04.2014 cite,
"Open Recruitment to the Post of Produce Work Assistant
(maintenance) at the Department of Government
Information" on the top left hand corner of the envelope,
in which the application form is enclosed. Applications
received after the closing date will not be accepted.
(c) Incomplete applications in any manner will be rejected.
Complaints on misplacements or delays will not be
entertained.
11. If any candidate was found guilty of prviding any false
information or suppressing any important information purposely,
he/she is liable to be dismissed.
12. Matters not covered by these regulations will be determined
by the Public Service Commission.
Director General of Government Information,
Powers Delegated by the Public Service Commission,
Department of Government Information.
Department of Government Information,
No. 163, Kirulapona Avenue,
Colombo 05,
24th February, 2014.
SPECIMEN FORM OF APPLICATION
(For official use only)
O
PEN RECRUITMENT TO THE PRIMARY SEMI-TECHNICAL SERVICE
CATEGORY OF THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION
[PRODUCTION WORK ASSISTANT (MAINTENANCE)]
01. Medium :
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
477
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KEGALLE   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
02. Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English Block letters, starting initials
at the end : Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
E. g.– SILV A, A. B.
2.2 Name in full in English Block letters :––––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.4 Personal address (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.5 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.6 Civil status :
Unmarried - 1
Married - 2
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Ethnicity :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,  Ind. Tamil - 3,
Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10 Telephone Number (if available) :
03. Educational Qualifications :
First sitting : Year :–––––––––.  Index Number :––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
Second sitting : Year :–––––––––.  Index Number :––––––––––.
Subject Pass Subject Pass
04. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
05. Experience :––––––––––.
06. Certification of the applicant.
I certify that the above information is true and correct.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
03–438

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
478
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st Apr il, 2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
28th February, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Ap plications must be sent
Kegalle Kegalle Post of Registrar of Marriages (General/ District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Kandyan) of Paranakuru Koralaya General, District Secretariat,
Division and Births and Deaths for Kegalle.
Mawathapattu South Division
03–400
––––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (CLASS III OF EXECUTIVE SERVICE CA TEGORY) OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
APPLICATIONS are invited from Sri Lankan citizens who have following qualifications, to the Post of Legal Officer of the Department
of Technical Education and Training of the Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development.
01. Recruitment Procedure.– Applicants, who got highest marks on the results of structured interview, held by the interview
board appointed by the Public Service Commission, out of the applicants who fulfilled the qualifications, mentioned in the noti fication,
will be recruited for the number of vacancies available. In this case, structured interview will be held in accordance with the  marking
scheme (mentioned under No. 06) which was approved by the Public Service Commission.
02. Qualifications :
(i) Educational and Vocational Quailfications :
Have obtained LLB Degree from a University recognized by the University Grant Commission or have sworn in the
Supreme Court as a Lawyer.
(ii) Experience :
Not less than three (03) year active professional experience, after sworn in the Supreme Court as a Lawyer.
(iii) Physical Fitness :
Every candidates shall have sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and discharge the
duties of the post.
(iv) Other :
* Proffecincy in Tamil and English Language is an additional qualification.
* Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
* Must have excellent moral character.
* All qualifications, needed to recruit to this post, should have been fulfilled as at the closing date of applications.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
479
03. Conditions of Employment and Service Conditions  :
(i) This Post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Appointment will be subjected to a probation period of three (03) year. As mentioned in the scheme of recruitment, 1st
Efficiency Bar Examination should be fulfilled within 03 years from the appointment to Class III of the Post of Legal
Officer.
(iii) In terms of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and circulars, incidental thereto, profficiency in other official
language, in excess to the language, recruited to the service, must be obtained, within 05 years from the appointment and
the officers who recruited by the language other than official language should obtain prescribed official language
profficiency within the period of probation.
(iv) This appointment is subjected to procedural rules of Public Service Commission, the Establishments Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations and Departmental other orders.
04. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of the age on the closing date of applications.
05. Salary scale.– Salary Scale of Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 - 17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitle for this Post. (Salary segment SL-
1-2006 of Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 dated 25.04.2006).
06. Following Marking Scheme will be based for the Structured Interview  :
Subject Maximum
Marks
1. Additional Educational Qualifications :2 0
LLB Degree obtained from a recognized university :
– For first class 20
– For second class upper 15
– For second class lawer 10
or
First class for final year of law college 15
Second class for final year of law college 10
Note.– Only 10 marks should be given, final exam had been passed with honour pass before the year
1997, (marks will be given only for maximum qualification, marks should be given only for a
Degree or Qualification from Law College.
2. Additional Professional Qualifications :1 5
For a Post Graduate Diploma not less than one year, in relevant field, awaded by the recognized
institution or Post Graduate Diploma in Law (05 marks per a Diploma)
For a Diploma Course, not less than 06 months, in relevant field, awaded by the recognized
institution. (03 marks per a Diploma)
For a Certificate Course, not less than 03 months, in relevant field, awaded by the recognized
institution (02 marks per a Diploma)
3. Additional Experience : 15
Experience in Public Service or private sector as a lawyer - more than 06 months and less than one
year, 02 marks, 05 marks per a year maximum 30 marks (except 03 year period of service worked
as a lawyer needed to obtain basic qualification)
(Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate obtained from a lawyer who have
completed not less than 20 years period of service president's counsel or a justice)
4. Computer Literacy : 15
Have followed Information Technology as a main subject for a degree, from a University, 15
recognized by University Grant Commission.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
480
For a Diploma Course in Information Technology, not less than 01 year or 1500 hours from 10
Government recognized Institution
For a Certificate Course in Information Technology, from Government recognized Institution :
- 06 Months/720 hours 07
- 03 months/360 hours 05
5. Proffeciancy in English Language: 15
Post Graduate/Degree/Post Graduate Degree in law, in English medium. (All relevant question 15
papers should have been answered in English Medium)
For a Diploma Course in English Language from a University, Recognized by University Grant 10
Commission or from a Government recognized Institution. (one year or 1500 hours)
For a certificate Course in English Language from a University, Recognized by University
Grant Commission or from a Government Recognized Institution
- 06 Months/720 hours 07
- 03 months/360 hours 05
6. Skills at the interview 05
Total 100
Subject Maximum
Marks
07. Identity of the Candidates. – Only applicants, who have
submitted completed applications will be called for structured
interview.
Original copies of certificates and properly certified copies should
be submitted, in the interivew. Following identity Card will be
accepted to certify the identity of his/her, in the interview :
(i) Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration
of persons,
(ii) A valid pass port.
08. Method of Application :
(i) Applications, should be sent under registered cover to
reach the "Director General, Department of Technical
Education and Training, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10",
on or before 21st April, 2014. Applications, received
after that date will be rejected.
(ii) A specimen application, is indicated at the end of this
notification. Applicants should prepare their application,
in their own handwriting, in A4 size paper with No. 01
to 07 appearing in 1st page, No. 08 to 11 appearing in
2nd page and the rest in next pages.
(iii) The envelope enclosing the application should be
marked "Application for the post of Legal Officer" on
the top left hand corner.
(iv) Signature of candidate should be attested by a Principal
of a Government School/A Justice of a Peace/
Commissioner of Oaths/Attorny-at-law/Notary Public,
Commissioned Officer in the Armed Force or an officer
holding a permanent post in the Government with
monthly consolidated salary of Rs.  22,935.
(v) Officers, who are already in Public or Provincial Public
Service should submit applications through their Head
of the Department.
(vi) Applications, without confirmity with the specimen
application form, will be rejected. Inquiries about
applications lost or delayed will not be accpeted.
09. Furnishing false Information .– Your candidature will be
repealed, if any information mentioned in the application, being
detected as incorrect or false, before the recrutiment. If such
information being detected after the recruitment, action will be
taken to dismiss from the service, subject to the procedure relevant
thereto.
10. Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to
fill vacancies.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this notification, Sinhala text shall prevail.
By Order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and
Skills Development.
Nipunatha Piyasa,
No. 354/2, Alvitigala Mawatha,
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
481
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
For office use
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER (CLASS III OF EXECUTIVE
SERVICE CATEGORY) OF THE DEP ARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND
TRAINING
01. Name of the applicant :––––––––––––.
(i) Name with initials at the end (In block capital letters) :
––––––––––––.
(ii) Full name (In block capital letters) :––––––––––––.
(iii) Full name (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. Address and Telephone Number :
(i) Official Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
(ii) Private Address :––––––––––––.
Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
Mobile Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
(Any change in the address or telephone number should
be informed immediately)
03. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
04. Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––––.
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Whether married/unmarried/Widow :––––––––––––.
08. Education Qualifications :
(i) University date and language medium, obtained a degree
in law :––––––––––––.
(ii) Date, sworn in supreme court as a lawyer :–––––––––.
09. Professional experience as a lawyer :––––––––––––.  years
10. Professional Qualifications :
Examination/ Y ear Subjects Grade Name of the
Diploma Institution/University
11. Experience :
Institutions, Designation Period Whether Public Sector/
worked worked Semi Government/
Private
12. Proficiency in computer literacy :
Degree :––––––––––––.
Diploma :––––––––––––.
Certificate course :––––––––––––.
13. Proficiency in English Language :
Degree in English Medium :––––––––––––.
Diploma Course in English :––––––––––––.
Certificate Course in English :––––––––––––.
14. If you are a citizen of Sri Lanka, state by decent or registration
(if registration, state details) :––––––––––––.
15. Whether you have dismissed from a post in Public Service, that
you had been holding ? :––––––––––––.
16. If you are already in Public Service is there any disciplinary
inquiry pending against you ? :––––––––––––.
17. Whether you have been convicted in a court, if so, state details
:––––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the perticulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate. I am aware that if any perticulars
contained there in are found to be false and incorrect, before the
selection, I'm liable to disqualify and dismissal, without
compensation, if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
18. Attestation of the signature of the candidate :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ...........................
personally known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence
on ................
––––––––––––––,
Signature of certifying officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
(This part is applicable only for candidates who engage in
Government employment)
Attestation of the Head of the Department/Institution
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................ who is
working in this Ministry/Department/Institution, is presently
working in the post of .................................. and his/her work and
conduct are satisfactory, no disciplinary action pending against
him/her and no dicision has been taken to impose any such in
future. He/She can/cannot be released from the service once he/she
is selected for this post.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department or Authorized Officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
03–436

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
482
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
LEGAL  DRAFTSMAN'S  DEPARTMENT
Competitive Examination for the recruitment to the Posts of Editor Grade III and Documentation Assistant Grade III of the
Management Assistant Non Technical Category 2 in the Legal Draftsman's Department
APPLICATIONS are invited by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration on behalf of the Legal Draftsman's Department for
the selection of suitable persons to fill the vacancies in the Post of Editor Grade III and Documentation Assistant Grade III i n the Legal
Draftsman Department. Applications prepared according to the specimen form at the end of this notification should be send by registered
post addressed to the Director General, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, No. 28/10, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo
07, on or before the date mentioned below. "Competitive examination for the recruitment to the Post of Editor Grade III and Documentation
Assistant Grade III in the Legal Draftsman's Department" should be clearly mentioned on the top left corner of the envelope.
Further the name of the examination in the applications in Sinhala in addition to being in Sinhala should be given in English and the
name of the examination in applications in Tamil in addition to being in Tamil should be given in English.
(a) The last date for the receipt of application is 21.04.2014.
Note.– No complaint regarding the loss or delay in the post of an application or any related letter will be entertained. Any
inconvenience caused due to the delay in sending the applications should be borne by the applicants.
01. Method of recruitment.– The applicants who have obtained the highest marks in the Open Competitive Examination will be
subjected to an interview and after examining the qualifications they will be recruited in order of merit according to the number of vacancies.
The number of appointees and the date of appointment will be decided by the Legal Draftsman.
02. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Contributions should be made to the Widows/Widowers and Orphans Pension
Fund.
(ii) Officers appointed to this post are subject to a probation period of three (03) years.
(iii) In terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007(ii) proficiency level of the other official language should be
obtained within a period of five (05) years. Officers who joined the service through a medium which is not an official
language are required to obtain the proficiency in the official language within 03 years that is within the period of
probation. Proficiency in one official language should be obtained while the proficiency in the other official language
should be obtained within 06 (six) years.
(iv) This appointment is subject to the procedural rules of the Public Serivce Commission, Establishment Code of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Financial Regulations of the Government and other Departmental Regulations.
(v) The appointment of applicants who fail and refuse or avoid to assume the duties of the post on the relevant date are
liable to be cancelled.
03. Salary Scale.– This post carries (monthly) salary scale of Rs. 13,120 -10x145 - 11x170 -10x240 - 10x320 - Rs. 22,040 in terms
of MN-1-2006A - Public Administration Salaries Circular No. 06/2006.
04. Educational Qualifications/Experience :
Educational qualifications.– Should pass/have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subject with credits in at least four
(04) subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil/English language at one sitting.
Have obtained at least a credit pass in Sinhala language or Tamil language/English language at the G . C. E. (Advanced Level)
Examination.
Note :
(i) The applicant should have completed the qualifications for the language subjects, relevant to the medium applied, at the
G . C. E. (O/L) and G . C. E. (A/L).

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
483
(ii) In the absence of a sufficient number of applicants who have obtained a credit pass in English language at the G . C. E.
(A/L) examination having obtained a credit pass in Sinhala/Tamil language at the G. C. E. (A/L) examination and a pass
in English or a credit pass in General English at the G . C. E. (A/L) will be considered as a qualification.
Experience.– Only the applicants for the Post of Documentation Assistant should have at least one year experience in a
government recognized establishment in computer related work (eg.– open office Microsoft Office Word-Excel/etc.)
05. Age limit.– Should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years on the closing date of applications.
06. Physical qualification.– Every applicant should possess sufficient physical and mental suitability –
(i) To serve in any part of Sri Lanka ; and
(ii) To perform the duties of the post (selected applicants will be subject to a medical investigation).
07. Other qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Applicants should be of unblemished character ;
(iii) Applicant should have completed all the required qualifications on every manner for the recruitment to the post on the
date of publication of the notice calling for applications.
08. 8.1 Written examination : Editor
Question paper Time Total marks Pass mark
Test the knowledge on Sinhala/Tamil/English language and 1 1/2 hours 100
spelling.
8.1.1 Syllabus :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
Test the knowledge on Sinhala/Tamil/English A paper consi sting of three questions with two parts to evaluate the proof
language and spelling reading skills specially the proof reading skills relating to the publications
of this department and a question to test the correct Sinhala/Tamil/English
spelling
8.2 Written examination : Documentation Assistant
Question paper Time Total marks Pass mark
Intelligence test one hour 100 40
Language proficiency one hour 100 40
8.2.1 Syllabus :
Name of the question paper Syllabus
Intelligence Test A question paper to test the general intelligence, logical skill, expression of
ideas, statistical skill and comprehension skill
Language proficiency/skill A question paper to test the spelling, grammer, expression of precise and
clear ideas, knowledge of expressions of the language, summarizing and
essay writing.
N. B.– Marks will be deducted for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes.
The candidacy of a candidate whose handwriting is illegible shall/may be cancelled.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
484
8.3 Interview.– Applicants who have obtained the highest
marks (equal to the number of vacancies) from the
applicants who have obtained marks more than 40% for
each of the above papers will be interviewed by a panel
of interview appointed by the Legal Draftsman in order
the required physical and mental suitability mentioned
in the notice. Marks will not be given for the interview.
09. Conditions for the Examination/Examination Conditions :
(i) An applicant applying for both posts shall submit
separate applications.
(ii) The examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media. An applicant will not be permitted
to change the medium mentioned in his application
later.
(iii) The examination fee is Rs. 1,000. The applicants could
pay a non-refundable examination fee of Rs. 1,000 at
any branch of Bank of Ceylon in favour of Director
General, Sri Lanka Institute of Development
Administration, to the credit of Account No. : 02323278
at the Torrington Square Branch of Bank of Ceylon.
A copy of the receipt of payment should be annexed to
the application.
(iv) The fee paid for the examination will not be refunded
under no circumstance.
(v) This examination will be held in Colombo in May 2014.
The date of the examination will be notified later.
(vi) Incomplete application will be rejected without any
notice.
Note.– No applicant will be allowed to enter the
examination hall without the admission card.
An application shall sit for the examination at
the examination hall specified for him. Every
applicant is erquired to have his signature
attested in his admission card and it to the
supervisor of the examination hall when he
appears for the first time. The issue of an
admission card to an applicant shall not be
accepted as that he/she has fulfilled the
eligibility to sit for the examination.
(vii) The application should be prepared in 22cm x 29cm
A4 sheets size of 22x9 c. m. in accordance with the
specimen application herein. The application shold be
prepared with captions 1-5 in the first page and 6-11 in
the second page and the relevant information should be
clearly filled in the applicant's handwriting. Applications
which are non in accordance with the specimen
application form and incomplete applications will be
rejected without any notice.
(viii) The receipt of application will not be acknowledged
and the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration will issue admission cards
to appilcant who have submitted applications complete
in all aspects.
(ix) The Legal Draftsman shall have the power to postpone
or to cancel the examination.
(x) The applicants are subject to the rules stipulated by
the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration regarding the holding of
the examination and the release of the results. If such
rules are violated be he/she will have be subjected to
any punishment imposed by the Director General of
the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
under examination laws and rules.
10. Identify of the applicant. – Every applicant shall prove his
identify at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the Supervisor
of the Examination hall. For such purpose only one of the following
documents will be accepted.
1. The national identity card issued by the Department for
the Registration of Persons ;
2. A valid passport ;
3. A valid driving licence.
Note :
(a) No document or any copy should be annexed to the
paplication.
(b) Applications of applicants who fail to submit the
originals of the relevant documents when requested
will not be taken into consideration.
Applicants are required to have their specimen signature attested
by a principal/retired principal of a government school, Grama
Niladhari of the Division, Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for
Oaths, Attorney-at-law, Notary Public, Commissioned officer of
the Armed Forces or a permanent staff grade officer in the
Government or Local Government Service receiving an annual salary
of Rs. 240,360 or more, chief incumbent of a Buddhist temple or a
member of the clergy of a respectable standing in charge of any other
religious institution.
11. Punishing false information.– If it is disclosed that an applicant
does not posses the qualifications at any time before the examination
or in the course of the examination or after the examination, his/her
appilcation is liable to be cancelled. If it is disclosed that an applicant
has furnished false facts knowing that it is false or that he/she has
wilfully hidden any fact he/she is liable to be dismissed from
government service.
G . S. A. 
DE SIL V A,
Legal Draftsman.
Legal Draftsman Department,
Colombo 12.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
485
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment to the Pupil Nurse Training – 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the applicants who have
fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the Nursing Service Minute
published in the Extraordinary Gazette No. 1,837/8 dated 19.11.2013
For office use only
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR THE RECRUITMENT
TO THE POSTS OF EDITOR GRADE III AND
DOCUMENTATION ASSISTANT GRADE III OF THE
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANT NON TECHNICAL
CATEGORY 2 IN THE LEGAL DRAFTSMAN'S
DEPARTMENT - 2014
A
PPLICATION  FORM
Medium - medium for the examination.
Sinhala - 1
Tamil - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
In terms of Paragraph 9.11 of the application (Medium will not
be allowed to changed)
01. 1.1 Last name with initials at the end :–––––––––––.
(e. g.– SILV A A. B. in English Capital letters)
1.2 Name in full (in Sinhala /Tamil)  :–––––––––––.
1.3 Name in full (in English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
1.4 National Identity Card No. :
02. 2.1 Permanent address (in English capital letter) :–––––––––.
2.2 Address to which the admission card should be sent (in
English capital letters) :–––––––––––.
03. 3.1 Date of birth :
Year :––––––––  Month :––––––––  Date :––––––––.
3.2 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years :––––––––  Months :––––––––  Days :––––––––.
04. Gender  :
Male : 0 Female : 1
05. Civil Status :
Married - 1 Unmarried - 2
06. Educational Qualifications :
(i) G . C. E. (O/L)
Year Subjects Grade
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) :
Year Subjects Grade
07. Mention any other relevant educational/professional
qualifications :–––––––––––.
08. Professional experience :–––––––––––.
09. Firmly paste the receipt here :
Receipt No. :–––––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––––.
Office where the payment was made
10. Applicant's Declaration :
I do hereby declare that the foregoing particulars are true to the
best of my knowledge and belief. Further I declare that I agree to be
bound by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Director General
of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration regarding the
holding of the examination and decisions regarding the release of the
results. I aslo agree to abide by any decision to cancel my examination
candidature before in the course of or after the examination, if it
appears that I am not eligible according to the conditions of this
examination.
11. Attestation of the Applicant's signature :
I do hereby certify that ....................... (full name) who submits
this application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature before me on this ................................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the attesting officer :–––––––––––.
Signature :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Official seal :–––––––––––.
03–645
–––––––––––––––

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
486
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka in order to be
recruited into the pupil nurse training under the Ministry of Health.
(Recruitment of the male applicants will be carried out under the
provisions of the Nursing Service minute on the basis of the
requirement that are existed in the institutes under the Ministry).
01. The number of recruitmetns will be divided in proportion to
the number apply in each year. Then the number prescribed to be
recruited in each year will be divided in proportion to the number of
students who apply from Biology, Mathematics and Agriculture
streams in the relevant year and eligible persons will be selected on
district basis from the applicants who have obtained highest Z-
score.
02. These will be full time courses. Therefore students who are
following full time courses in any university or under the Ministry
of Health or in any other Government institute during the five days
of the week including Saturday morning should not apply for this. If
anybody so appiles and someone it was revealed later he or she will
be dismissed from the course/post and all the expenses which were
incurred by the Government on behalf of the trainee should be paid
to the Government. If a full time student of the university or in
another Government institute intends to apply the following
guidelines should be followed.
2.1 If you had registered in a university or in any other
Government institute for a full time course by the date
10.04.2014 and if you are selected for the student nurses
training your registration for the relevant training or course
should be cancelled before the date of the registration at
the Nurses Training School.
2.2 Also if you had not registered in any university or for any
other course conducted by the Ministry of Health by the
date 10.04.2014 if you had registered by the date of
registration of trainees for the student nursing training
due to any reason his/her registration should also be
cancelled before the date of registration at the nurses
training school.
2.3 If the applicant who have registered for a full time course
under the Ministry of Health are selected for the Student
Nursing Training they will be registered for the Student
Nursing Training only if they leave the relevant course
after paying back the bonded sum according to the
garments signed relevant to the training at the time and all
the allowances you have received.
Note :–
1. Even though you have fulfilled the conditions from 2.1 to
2.3 if you have not obtained sufficient Z-score or if you
have not completed any conditions mentioned in this
however you should be aware/informed that you will not
be selected for this courses.
2. You should be further informed that even though you
have obtained sufficient Z-score and have been complete
the other conditions mentioned in this if you have not
mentioned from 2.1 to 2.3 you will not be selected for
these courses.
03. Educational Qualifications :–
(a) Should have passed all the subjects (except common
General test) of one of the streams called Biology/
Mathematics/Agriculture which belongs to the Science
Stream in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) examination ;
and
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in not
more than 02 attempts with six subjects including Credits
passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics, Science
and English.
04. Other qualifications :–
(a) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
(b) Should not be below 18 and over 28 years of age as at
10.04.2014.
(c) Height should not be below 4'10" (147.3cm).
(d) Should be unmarried.
(e) Every candidate should be physically fit to serve in any
part of Sri Lanka.
(f) Should have lived in the district from which you are
applying for a period of during three years immediately
prior to the closing date of application which is 10.04.2014
and should have fulfilled at least one of the followings to
prove the residence and the relevant documents should be
presented at the interview :
(I) Should be resided in that district at least 3 years within
05 years prior to 10.04.2014 (for this the Gramaniladari
certificate signed by the Divisional Secretary should
be submitted) ;
(II) Should be obtained the secondary school education
continuously in the relevant district for 5 years (A
copy of school leaving certificate should be submitted) ;
(III) Should be born in the relevant district. (A copy of
Birth Certificate should be submitted) ;
(IV) Extracts of Register of V oters during last three years
obtain from the District Election Office should be
submitted.
Note.– If any candidate whose father or mother is serving
in a transferable service under the Government,
Provincial Council Service or Co-operation, he/she will
be allowed to select the district as his districts as which
in district mother is born or in which district farther is
born. (Birth Certificate and the documents to prove
their service either mother or father should be submitted.)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
487
05. Method of Application :
(a) Application should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen given in this notification by using both sides
of A4 size paper. This should be prepared as including
the sections from No. 01 to No. 09 in page No. 01 and
No. 10 section should be in page No. 02 and page No.
03 should be contained with the sections from No. 11 or
No. 13.
(b) Duly completed applications should be sent on or before
10.04.2014 by the register post to the "Director (Admin.
01), Ministry of Health, Suwasiripaya, No. 385, Rev.
Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo
10" and on the top left corner of the envelope should be
mentioned as "Recruitment of the Pupil Nurse training
in 2014" and resident district.
(c) Applicant's signature should be attested by an officer in
Sri Lanka Administrative Service/Educational
Administrative Service/Public Accountant Service/A
Principle of a Government School/Justice of the peace/
Lawyer or by an Officer who is bearing a government
post and is being paid an annual salary not less than Rs.
240,360.
(d) Value of Rs. 300 valid stamps should be affixed in the
relevant cage before the signature of the application and
they should be cancelled by placing the signature of the
applicant.
06. Incomplete applications, applications which are not in the
specific format and without stamps or not registered on or before
10.04.2014 will be rejected without any notification and will not be
acknoweldge.
07. Among the applicants those who have fulfilled the above
mentioned qualifications will be called for an interview based on a
priority list prepared according to the Z-score. A general interview
will be held by an interview board appointed by the Secretary of
Health and the Interview Board will check the qualifications mentioned
in the Nurse service minute and this Gazette Notification and physical
fitness.
08. Originals and the crtified true copies by himself of the below
mentioned documents should be submitted at the interview by the
applicant and the documents which are submitted after the interview
will not be considered :
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) G. C. E. A/L Result Sheet and the originals of Z-score
Result Sheet ;
(c) G . C. E. O/L Result Sheet ;
(d) National Identity Card or Passport or Valid Driving license ;
(e) The original documents in terms of prove the residence as
per above 4(f) ;
(f) An affidavit by a Justice of peace in order to prove as a
bachelor or spinster.
09. Training Procedure :
(a) Selected applicants will be admitted to nurse training
schools as pupils nurses and three (03) years training
programme should be followed by them ;
(b) A set of laws that existed in the nursing school will be
provided to these trainees at the Admission for training
wit. They will be subjected to these laws and to the other
laws that are implemented time to time respectively ;
(c) If he/she fails at the scheduled examinations, if he/she had
not being conducted as a well mannered person or if they
behave unsatisfactorily or if he/she fails to follow the
examination and leave condition or if any detail was
revealed as incorrect mentioned in the application form,
will be terminated from this training without paying any
compensation at any time of the training. The trainers
will not be entitled for any leave during the training period
and equal amount of money will be deducted on during
the training period and equal amount of money will be
deducted on behalf of the absent days during the training.
However 80% attendance will be required for facing to
the examination ;
(d) The allowances will be granted as follows for the trainees’
who are training in a nurse training school :
1. First year :- Rs. 12,920 per month.
2. Second years :- Rs. 13,040 per month.
3. Third years :- Rs. 13,160 per month.
After successful completion of this training at the final
examination. The trainees will be appointed by the
Secretary of Health as staff nurse officers Grade 3 as per
the relevant salary scale on the basis of available vacancies.
(e) If anyone left the training during the training or dismissed
or resigned by the training during the training period the
all the expenses incurred by the Government for the
training should be paid by the relevant trainee to the
Department. If not action will be taken to recover this
amount of money.
10. Terms and Agreements on unmarried status :
(a) All the applicant should be unmarried by the date of
applications and should also be remained as unmarried
during the training period. An affidavit signed by the Justice
of Peace should be forwarded to prove the unmaried status
at the interview ;

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
488
(b) All the pupil nurses should be signed an agreement with
Director General of Health Services as to agree that to
complete the training programme successfully and to serve
10 years period under the Ministry of Health or in a
hospital under the Provincial Health Ministry. This period
of time will be decided by the Director General of Health
Service time to time.
11. Conditions of recruitment :
(a) The government is not bound to grant permanent
appointment at the end of the Training. However they
will be considered to be appointed at the relevant post
staff nurse officer Grade III on the basis of the conditions
mentioned in the recruitment procedure and on the basis
of available vacancies in the relevant province.
(b) The post of staff nurse officer Grade III that granted on
the basis of final results in the above mentioned training
will be a pensionable occupation and the contributions
should be made to the widow/widower and Orphans'
Pension Scheme.
(c) Appointments will be granted to staff Nurse Officer Grade
III after the 03 years probationary period.
12. Service Conditions :
(a) All the trainees should be appeared for a medical test prior
to the training programme ;
(b) Staff Nurse Officer Grade III will be entitled for the salary
scales Rs. 15,620 - 4x180 -6x240 - 11x320 -20x360 -
Rs. 28,500 as per M. T. 7/2006A of P . A. Circular 6/2006(iv)
and will be appointed to the post of Staff Nurse Officer
Grade III.
(c) All the officers in the nurse service will be subjected to the
provisions of Establishments Code  in the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka to the implemented laws
by the Public Service Commission with regard to the
government service, to the regulations and orders, for the
provisions of nurse service minute to the government
Financial Regulations and to the other regulations of the
government, to the circulars, instructions and to the
revisions made upon them frequently.
(d) The information on Education and other qualifications
should be filled in the applications with full of attention
and they should be entered correctly. If any certificate
mentioned above found as incorrect or fraud document the
relevant appointments will be cancelled and also will be
dismissed by the training or by the post. Such incidents
will be forwarded Criminal Investigation Department to
take legal actions and their names will be entered into black
list that prevented them for re-employing under the
government. Action will be taken to recover the full amount
of money which incurred by the government for payments
and other expenses by the government during the training
period together with relevant surety mentioned in the
surety bond by him/her.
(e) This Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities
within the training schools for the recruited applicants.
(f) During this period no-one is allowed to participate in trade
union actions or serving attached to private services and
they do not have any right thereof. Actions will be taken to
dismissed by the training or another suitable action
according to the rules and regulations if such incident is
revealed.
(g) Decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Health will be
final and exclusive if any complicated situation is arisen on
the circumstances that are not covered by this Gazette
Notification with regard to the training programme. The
Sinhala Language sentences will be effective if any
differences are originated between the Sinhala/Tamil and
English sentences under this Gazette Notification.
Dr. Y . D. N
IHAL JAYATHILAKA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
No. 385, Suwasiripaya,
Rev. Baddagama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
28th February, 2014.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
R
ECRUITMENT OF PUPIL NURSES FOR TRAINING – 2014
District
G . C. E. (A/L) subject stream
G . C. E. (A/L) year passed
Medium
01. ( a) Last name with initials (In English block letters) :––––––.
(b) Full name (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
(c) Full name (English block letters) :–––––––––––.
02. Postal address (In English) :–––––––––––.
03. (i) Permanent address (In Sinhala) :
(ii) D istrict (In English) :

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
489
(iii) Telephone No. :
Mobile :
Residential :
04. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––, Month :––––––––––, Date :––––––––––.
05. Age as at 10.04.2014 :
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
06. Gender : Male
(Put "3" in the appropriate box) Female
07. Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen : Y es
(Put "3" in the appropriate box) No
08. National Identity Card No. :
09. Height :
(a) Feet :–––––––––.  Inches :–––––––––.  (b) cm :––––––––.
10. (a) G . C. E. A/L Examination  :
(i) Year :–––––––––––. (ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
(iii) Z-score :–––––––––––. (iv) Stream  :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
01. 03.
02. 04.
(b) G . C. E. O/L Examination :
First Attempt :
(i) Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
Second Attempt :
(i) Exam year and month :–––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade For office use Subjec t Grade For office use
01. 07.
02. 08.
03. 09.
04. 10.
05. 11.
06. 12.
11. Have you ever been convicted in any Court for any offence :
Yes
No
If "Yes" provide details :––––––––––.
12. Declaration/Certification of the applicant :
(a) I hereby state respectively that the information provided
in the application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I know that I will be dismissed if this statement proved
incorrect/false revaled later.
Stamps should be cancelled after affixing stamps to the
value of Rs. 300 and by placing the signature on it.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
13. Certification of the Signature of the Applicant :
I hereby certify that I personally know Mr./Mrs./Miss
................... who submit this application and he/she placed his/her
signature before me on .................. 2014.
–––––––––––––,
Attestor's signature.
Attestor's :
Full name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
03–411

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
490
DEPARTMENTAL   EXAMINATION   FOR   PRELIMINARY   GRADE
MEDICAL   OFFICERS   AND   DENTAL   SURGEONS – MARCH  -  2014
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which should  be
passed by  Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before promotion to Grade II in terms of Section 07 of the Minute of Medical Offi cers
in the Health Services, published in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, and which should be passed by Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service will be held on 25th May, 2014 in Sinhala, Tamil
and English medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications that should be prepared by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of this circular
must be handed over to the head of the institute on or before 21st April 2014. The applications that are certified as all the eligibilities have
been fulfilled, should be forwarded to the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama
Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 25th April, 2014 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division
should certify the accuracy of contents in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed w ith stamps
to the value of Rs. 30.00 should be sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address). Applications
which are received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application so as to
recommended from 01 to 04(c) on the first front page and from 04(d) to 09 on the second page. Application which do not
conform to above will be rejected any information.
04. Examination fees :
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application and
cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
05. Admission to the Examination:
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete
and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents will be accepted :
(a) National Identity Card ; ( c) Driving License ;
(b) Departmental Identity Card ; ( d) Passport.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre and the
index number through the web site ; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number as mentioned
above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web site together with a letter attesting your
signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your identity. The applicants
who have received the admission card should certify their signature and should be bought. The applicants who have
obtained the certification on their signature will not be entitled to face the examination. (Web site : 
www.health.gov.lk)
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of three written question papers and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce
test. Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be
completed at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :
07.1 Written Examination :
07.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. Total marks 100.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
491
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V , VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV , XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission.
07.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total Marks 100. Should answer four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
Syllabus :
Health Manual :
Part I - Medical Services
Part II - Laboratory Services
07.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer 04 questions out of 7 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Financial Regulations -
Chapter I - All Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV - All Sections
V - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
VI - All Sections
VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 ;
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
07.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services will conduct this Examination in
Colombo to examine the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of Officers to discuss on matters
pertaining to their daily routine duties will be examined.
8. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Compaign/
Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site -  www.health.gov.lk
N. B .– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be effected if any contradictory is arisen in the examination
notifications published in Tamil and English Medium.
M. B. L. R
AHUMAN,
Deputy Director General (Admin.) II,
for Director General of Health Services.
My No. : CF/EXE/02/2014
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
07th March, 2014.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
492
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE
MEDICAL OFFICERS AND DENTAL SURGEONS - MARCH - 2014
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b) (i)  Designation (Please mark ( 3) in relevant cage) :
(i) Medical Officer (ii) Dental Surgeon
(ii) Date of Internship Appointment (MO only) :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ 3’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark "X" against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Accounts
Establishments Code Sinhala Viva Voce
Tamil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination (Mark ‘ 3’ in relevant cage) :
Sinhala English Tamil
04. ( a) Present Station (write clearly) :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.
(c) Please mark  " 3" in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (If any or several
examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to absence of a
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota
Kaluthara Galle Badulla
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
Ampara Vavuniya
(d) Whether a self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been attached to the
application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'03'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.03.2014
493
(e) (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat
the Examination*, and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in
his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination he/she* sits the Examination for the first time/repea ts the
Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/ her*
signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and  he/she* is
eligible to sit for the Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialized Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :–––––––––––– .
03–637
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.