

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 380
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 376 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"372 – 2024 fmnrjdß ui 16 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'02'16
No. 2,372  –  fRiday, fEbRuaRy 16, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th March 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 22nd february 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
373- b 082541 - 5,403 (02/2024)
Note.—  (i)  criminal Procedure code (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of february 09, 2024.
 (ii)  twenty Second amendment to the constitution bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of february 09, 2024.
 (iii)  Penal code (amendment) bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of february 09, 2024.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
374
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
375
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
376
Post - v acant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages (kandyan/ General) - Sinhala medium
PuttaLaM   diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages for the 
Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both Male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala language with 02 Credit passes in not 
more than t wo (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary 
language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any 
other similar examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society 
Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of Village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18
th  March 2024, by registered post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla,
on this 31st day of January, 2024.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
377
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Puttalam anamaduwa
Post of births & deaths Registrar of 
Kumarawanni Pattuwa division and Post 
of Marriages (Kandyan/ General) Registrar 
of demala Hathpattuwa division
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam.
Puttalam Karuwalagas-
 wewa
Post of births and deaths Registrar of 
Rajawanni Pattu North Division and Post 
of Marriages (Kandyan/ General) Registrar 
of demala Hathpattuwa division
district Secretariat/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Puttalam
02 - 426
————————————————————————
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ’ S DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages – (Tamil medium)
JaffNa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages for the 
Divisions set out in the Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant births, deaths and Marriages/ additional Marriages division 
and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. both Male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Tamil language with 02 Credit passes in not more 
than two (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language 
as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar 
examination.
N.B. In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of births, deaths 
and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could 
be obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional 
Secretariat or relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
378
Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18
th  March, 2024, by registered post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla,
on this 31st day of January, 2024.
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
       Jaffna          Velanai
Post of births & deaths Registrar of Velanai 
division and Post of Marriages Registrar of 
island division (t amil Medium)
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Jaffna.
02 - 658
————————————————
REGISTRAR  GENERAL ’ S  DEPARTmENT
Post of Registrar of muslim/ Additional muslim marriages – (Tamil medium)
batticaLoa   diStRict
aPPLicatioNS  are called for the Post of Registrar of additional Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Muslim Marriages division and entitled to reasonable 
properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. only Muslim Males can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications. (Maximum age of retirement is 70 years)
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages should be married and should not be a widower or 
divorced.
05. Applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including Sinhala/ Tamil (relevant language for the Post) 
with 02 credit passes in not more than two (02) sittings in GcE(o/L) examination together with the ability to 
perform duties in secondary language as per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else 
should have passed in any other similar examination.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
379
N.B. - In case a subject contains 02 parts at GCE(O/L) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
(Possession of Moulavi Certificate or Diploma in Arabic Language shall be considered as fulfillment of aforesaid 
basic qualification.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
 07. additional details such as village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Muslim 
Marriage, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices 
exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant 
land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the schedule hereunder.
 08. Relevant application and the said “annex-01” inclusive of village name list/ Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. 
Applications could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s 
department.
 09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18
th  March, 2024, by registered post to the address given 
in the schedule.
  W. R. A. N. S. Wijayasinghe,
  Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
battaramulla,
on this 31st day of January, 2024.
Schedule
District
Divisional 
Secretariat 
Division
Post & Division for which Applications 
are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
batticaloa Koralaipattu
North
Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar of 
Ridhithenna division (t amil Medium)
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, batticaloa.
02 - 659

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
380
mINISTR y  Of L AND SuRv Ey D EPART mENT  Of  SRI  LANkA 
o pen competitive examination for recruitment to the 
posts of a pprentice Surveyors in the Survey d epartment of Sri Lanka - 2024
oPEN  competit ive examination for recruitment to the posts of apprentice surveyors in the Survey d epartment will be held 
in Colombo in may 2024 by the c ommissioner General of Examination. d ate and the venue of the Examination will be 
informed in due course.
Applications are invited from the candidates who completed the prescribed qualifications as follows to recruit for 108 
posts of apprentice surveyor in Survey Department, outside the Sri Lanka Survey Service, so as to be able to fill vacancies 
remain in the grade III of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service. (Appointing authority has power not to fill all or certain number 
of vacancies)
01 Surveying science graduates 97 posts
02 o ther graduates 11 posts
01.Qualifications :
1.1 Educational Qualifications
(a) Should have obtained from a u niversity / i nstitute recognized by the u niversity Grant c ommission
(i)  a  b Sc degree in Surveying Science
or
(ii) a  b Sc Special degree (Mathematics or Physics or c omputer/ i nformation t echnology Science as 
a main Subject)
or
(iii) a  b Sc degree in Engineering Science
or
(iv)  a  c omputer/ i nformation t echnology Science degree with a class
or
(v) General BSc degree with Mathematics or Physics subjects with a class
and
(b) Should have passed Mathematics and Physics subjects for G.C.E. Advanced Level
Note:
No one who is in pending results of a degree examination is allowed to apply to this examination. However, when someone 
who graduated from a recognized university submits an official letter obtained from the registrar of said university 
confirming that he/she has passed the degree examination, with the application, permission is granted to sit for this 
examination.
1.2
 Professional Qualifications and experience : Not applicable
1.3 Physical Qualifications :
 Every candidate should be a person who is physically fit in every respect to serve in any part of Sri Lanka
 with three dimensional sight void of color blindness.
1.4
 Other Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(ii) Should be of excellent moral character.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
381
(iii) Persons ordained in any religious order will not be recruited to this post and they cannot apply for 
this post. Likewise, they are not in any way permitted to sit for the recruitment examination.
(iv) The fact that the qualifications required to sit for the competitive examination for appointment to 
the Service have been fulfilled will be accepted only if the qualifications prescribed in the gazette 
notification have been completed in all respect as at the date stated in the Gazette Notification as the 
date on which the qualifications should be completed.
 
               1.5 Age :
      1.5.1 Minimum age limit : 22 years
      1.5.2 Maximum age limit: 28 years
1.6
if candidates with special needs appear for this examination, it must be mentioned in the application and 
copies of respective medical certificates must be submitted with the application.
2. Method of recruitment:
Recruitments will be made by a written competitive examination conducted only by the commissioner General of 
Examination. Of the candidates who have passed all the subjects and secured a minimum of 40% marks for each 
question paper, a number of applicants equal to the number of vacancies will be recruited to the post of apprentice 
Surveyor outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service in order of merit of marks, subsequent to an interview conducted 
by the Surveyor General to ascertain the qualifications and general physical fitness.
(a) Details of the open competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Apprentice Surveyor of the 
Department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service.
the open competitive examination held for the post of apprentice Surveyor of the department of Survey 
of Sri Lanka is conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English language and candidates are allowed to sit only in 
one language and the medium applied for the examination will not be allowed to change subsequently. this 
examination will consists of question papers related to three subjects as follows and every candidate should 
appear for all three subjects.
Name of the question paper time Maximum marks Passed marks
 1. comprehension 2 hours 100 40
 2. intelligence test 1 hours 100 40
 3. General Knowledge 1 hours 100 40
Comprehension
a number of short texts are given to the candidate by these question papers for a period of two hours (02). certain texts 
are given to express in one sentence. Questions for which comments should be provided to the underlined words are also 
given. a number of alternative statements are given to the candidates in respect of certain other text and one of them is most 
suitable for the contents included in this text. candidates should select the most appropriate statement. Several questions will 
be given to the candidate regarding some other texts. correct answers for them are expected. these questions are prepared 
to test the manner in which the candidate grasps the meaning of such texts. in addition to this, a long text will be given for 
summary writing.
Intelligence Test
duration of this paper is one (01) hour only and it has been prepared to assess the logical state of thinking of the candidate, 
analytical competence of his mind and his decision making power. this question paper will consist of 50 questions.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
382
General knowledge :
duration of this paper is one (01) hour only and it will consist of 50 multiple choice questions to test the entire knowledge 
including political, social, cultural and economic and environmental situation in Sri Lanka and the technological and 
technical developments as well as nationally and internationally important contemporary matters.
(a)  Marks will be deducted for illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes of candidates who sit for this examination. 
Candidates who have illegible handwritings may be disqualified in the examination.
(b) On the presumption of that only the candidate who have qualifications specified in gazette notification, have 
applied, admission card will be issued by the commissioner General of Examination to the candidates within the 
age limit mentioned in the notice, who have sent duly completed applications together with receipt obtained, paying 
the prescribed examination fee on or before the closing date of application. a  newspaper advertisement will be 
published by the department of Examination Sri Lanka immediately after the admission cards have been issued. 
candidates who do not receive admission cards within 02 or 03 days even after the newspaper advertisement 
has been published, should inquire without delay from the institutional Examination organization branch of the 
department of the Examinations Sri Lanka as mentioned in the notice. the name of the examination applied, full 
name of the applicant, National identity card number and address should be mentioned correctly when an inquiry 
is made. if the applicant is a resident of outside colombo, making an inquiry by sending a letter of request to the 
fax number mentioned in the notice along with the above details and a fax number of the candidate which can be 
obtained a copy of the admission card by fax, may be most beneficial. Keeping a copy of the application that you 
have your possession, a copy of the cash receipt if the payment of examination fee is applicable and the receipt of 
registration obtained when posting the application ready, will be useful to confirm any information requested by 
the department of Examination. (Issue of an admission card to a candidate shall not be considered as he or she 
has qualified for the examination or for the post.)
(c) candidates are bound to abide by the rules laid down by the commissioner-General of Examinations. if the rules 
and regulations are violated, he or she will be liable to a penalty imposed by the commissioner.
(d) Result sheet of eligible candidates, in terms of the Chapter 01 & 02 of this notification will be submitted to the 
Surveyor General, Department of Survey. In addition to that, After the release of the final result document all the 
candidates will be informed results personally or by publishing in the website of department of Examination Sri 
Lanka www.result.exams.gov.lk
3. Service Conditions :
(i) Salary:
in terms of public administrative circular No. 03/2016 (MN-5-2016) dated 25-02-2016, monthly salary 
scale entitled to this post is Rs.34,605 -10 x 660 - 11 x 755 - 15 x 930 - Rs. 63,460/ and you will be paid 
salary from the date on which the appointment is implemented.
(ii) Nature of the post: This post is permanent and pensionable and you are subject to a policy decision 
taken by the government in future about your pension scheme. further, you should make contribution to 
the widow / widower and orphan’s pension scheme. you should pay contribution for that in the manner 
ordered by the government time to time.
(iii) induction training:
(a)  t raining on departmental activities will be provided to the surveying science graduates appointed 
to the post of apprentice Surveyor in the department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ 
Service.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
383
(b)  Officers with other degrees other than the holders of the Surveying Science degree appointed to the 
post of apprentice Surveyor in the department of Survey outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service 
should complete a bSc degree course in Surveying Science as their second degree at the institute of 
Surveying and Mapping and training on departmental activities will also be provided.
(iv) Recruitment to the grade III of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service and confirmation in the service :
Recruitments will be made to the grade III of Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service from the officers who fulfill the 
following qualifications and completed the apprentice training successfully, recruited to the service as an 
apprentice surveyor through a language other than an official language and acquired relevant proficiency 
in an official language prior to confirm in the post and carrying out of his/her duties and behavior has been 
fulfilled in satisfactory manner and serve in the post of Apprentice Surveyor in the Department of Survey 
outside the Sri Lanka Surveyors’ Service and who is a registered surveyor in the Land Survey council in 
terms of the Survey act, No. 17 of 2020.
(a) If an officer who recruited to the post of apprentice surveyor with a surveying science degree, having 
served at least three years (03) active and satisfactory period as an apprentice surveyor in the Survey 
department together with six (06) months training on departmental activities.
(b) If an officer who recruited to the post of apprentice surveyor with non-surveying science degree 
should have complete a degree in surveying science and served at least three years (03) active and 
satisfactory period as an apprentice surveyor in the department of Survey.
(v) Appointees should appear for a medical test conducted by a medical officer in a government hospital to 
check whether they are physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the country.
(vi) Should be bound to a cash guarantee of Rs.25,000/- for government stores goods provided to the officers 
who recruit.
(vii) Officers, who receive appointment as an apprentice surveyor with a surveying science degree, are subjected 
to six years (06) compulsory service period from the date appointed as a surveyor and officers who receive 
appointments as an apprentice surveyor with a non-surveying science degree are subjected to eight years 
(08) compulsory service from the date appointed as a surveyor. Each officer who receives appointment as 
an apprentice surveyor should enter into an agreement with the Surveyor General and the regarding the 
officers who leave before the compulsory period of service shall act in terms of the said agreement.
(viii)  Selected candidates should subject to Procedural rules of Public Service Commission, provisions of 
Establishment Code, financial Regulations, Departmental Orders, other regulations and orders issued by 
the government from time to time.
4. Providing false information :
When applying to recruit to the post of apprentice Surveyor in the department of Survey outside the Sri 
Lanka Surveyors’ Service, if a candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature 
will be cancelled at any time. Even after recruited to this post of apprentice surveyor, if any of the 
particulars furnished by a candidate are found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she has 
willfully suppressed any material fact, he/she will be liable to dismissal from the public service.
 5. Preparation and submission of Application
(i) the application should be prepared by the applicant himself using both sides of paper size 21x29 (a4) 
as per the specimen application appearing at the end of this notice. the application should be prepared 
so as to include No. 01 - 05 on page 01 and rest in other pages.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
384
(ii) applications should be prepared in the language in which the candidates are eligible to sit for the 
examination and relevant information should be completed by their own handwritings. the name 
of the examination mentioned in the topic should be entered in “Engiish” in addition to Sinhala in 
Sinhala’applications and - ’ in addition to tamil in tamil applications. Each section of the application 
should be completed by candidates themselves as per the instructions given and sections not applicable, 
should be marked as not applicable, if any.
(iii) applications which are not complying with the specimen application, examination fees have not been 
paid before due date and incomplete and of improper filling will be rejected without any notification. 
Candidates should bear consequences of improper filling of application. It would be useful to retain 
a photocopy of the application. applicant should check out whether the completed application is 
conformity with the specimen application mentioned in the notice. If not, the application can be rejected. 
It should be strictly remembered that application can be rejected by leaving blanks.
(iv) candidates, who are already in public or provincial public service, should submit their applications 
through the Head of institution, and who are in public corporations, boards, local government 
institutions, should submit their applications through the head of institution on or before the due date. 
The applications receive after the due date will be rejected, even if they submit through departments. If 
signature and official stamp have not been placed for certification of signature in the applications of the 
Candidates, who are already in public service ,they will also be rejected.
(v) the words “Recruitment to the post of apprentice surveyor in the department of Survey outside the 
Sri Lanka Surveyors’ service-open competitive examination-2024" should be indicated on the top left 
corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
(vi) Only those who have fulfilled qualifications prescribed in the gazette  notification as at 18.03.2024, 
the closing date of application, should apply. only the candidates who submit applications on or 
before 18.03.2024, fulfill all prescribed qualifications are allowed to sit the written examination by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
6 Attestation of Signature
Signature of a candidate who is already in the public service should have been attested by the relevant head of the 
department or any officer authorized by him. The other candidates should get their signature attested by a person who 
authorized for that i.e. a Principal of a Government School, Justice of peace, sworn commissioner, Notary Public, 
Commissioned officer of three armed forces, an officer holding gazetted  post in the police service, or an officer in 
permanent staff or grade in public service and, an officer in tertiary or senior level as per the grading of posts in Public 
administration circular No 03/2016
7 Examination fees:
Examination fee is Rs. 1200/=. The receipt obtained by paying this fee only at any of the Post office in the island in 
order to credit to the Revenue Head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General of Examinations, should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant). the 
fee is not refundable in any circumstance and applications without receipts will be rejected.
8 Submission of application:
duly completed applications should be sent by registered post to reach to the following address on or before 18.03.2024.
commissioner General of Examination,
institutional Examination organization branch department of 
Examination - Sri Lanka, 
P.o. box 1503, 
colombo.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
385
9 Identity of candidate:
The candidate must prove his/her identity to the satisfaction of examination supervisor for each subject in the 
examination room any of the following documents will be accepted for this purpose.
 i.  the National identity card
ii. Valid passport.
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving License
candidates must access the examination hall without having covered their faces and two ears so as to be able to 
establish their identity. candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to access the examination 
hall. further, faces and two ears should not be covered so as to be able to identify the candidates to the examination 
authorities from the moment they accessed the examination hall, and until leaving after end of the exam.
10  Any matter not specified here will be determined by Surveyor General and all candidates shall be bound to act in terms 
of the general rules and regulations specified in this notification.
11  in case of any inconsistency or contradictory among the texts in Sinhala, t amil and English in this Gazette notification, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
           W. Sudath L.C.Perera, 
               Surveyor General
on 06 th  of february 2024 
Survey department, 
colombo 05.
Specimen application form  
ministry of Land 
Survey Department
open competitive examination for recruitment to the posts of apprentice Surveyors in the
Survey department of Sri Lanka - 2024
For Office use
Medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
t amil - 3 
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
1.0
1.1 full Name (in English block Letters):  .......................................................
1.2 Name with initials using initials at the end (in English block letter) (Eg.
PERERa  a.b.c.)
 1.3 full Name (in Sinhala/ in t amil) : ...................................................................
 1.4 date of birth : date  Month   y ear
your degree : 
01. Surveying Science
02. other
(Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
386
 1.5 age as at 06.01.2024 y ears   Months   day
 1.6 civil Status : Married  unmarried 
2.0
2.1 Permanent address: : ......................................................
(in English block Letters)
2.2 Permanent address: : ......................................................
(in Sinhala/t amil)
2.3 the address which admission card should be sent: ........................................
 (in English block letters)
3.0 Gender:  Male     - 1 (Write the relevant number in the cage)
   female -  2 
4.0 National identity card No : 
5.0 t elephone Numbers : Mobile : 
          fixed : 
6.0
Permanent resident district of applicant: ...................................
6.1 divisional Secretariat:  .........................
6.2 Grama Niladhari division : ............................
7.0 Educational Qualifications:
7.1 degree obtained (Mention clearly)
7.1.1 details of the degree
(i) date of degree :  ................................................
(ii) university/institution:  ......................................
(iii) Subjects: .........................................................
(iv) class: ..............................................................
(v) Medium of the exam:  .....................................
7.2 details of G.c.E.(a/L) examination:
i) y ear and Month of the examination:
ii) index Number :  .............................
iii) Subject stream : .................................
Subject Grade
 
 
  

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
387
 
8.0 Have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence (Indicate the mark “” in the relevant cage)
  y es     No
8.1 if “yes” give details:  ........................................................................................................
9.0 if the applicant had previously served in Public/Provincial Public Service and then
resigned the reason for such registration:  ..............................................................................
10.0 details of payment of examination fees:  .....................................
10.1 Office at which the payment made: ........................................
10.2 Receipt No. and date :  ................................
10.3 amount paid: Rs.  ........................................
Affix the cash receipt firmly here 
(Keep a photocopy with you)
11.0 Certification of the candidate: 
(a) i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and the cash receipt of No.  ............................and dated  ...................... obtained
by paying examination fee has been affixed. I agree to bear the loss which can be resulted by incompletion 
of application and or incorrect filling of application. Further, I declare that all the sections of the application 
have been completed correctly.
(b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the 
appointment and if it is found after the appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from the service.
(c) further, i declare that i agree to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by the commissioner 
General of Examinations in respect of the examination.
(d) i shall not subsequently change any of the particulars mentioned here.
date:  ....................................                                        ..............................................................
Signature of the applicant.
12.0 attestation of signature of the applicant: (Should be as per the paragraph 06 of the Gazette Notification)
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss  .............................................................................................  who is submitting
this application is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence, and prescribed 
examination fees have been paid and the cash receipt has been pasted.
date:  ....................................                                     .........................................................
Signature of attester.
full Name of the attester:  ................................................................
designation:  .................

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.02.2024
388
address: ...................
(By affixing the official seal)
13.0 Applicable only for the officers who are already in the Government or Semi Government Institutions.
 
attestation of the head of the department/institution
Mr./Mrs./Miss ...................................................................... Who submitted this application is serving in this 
department/institution from  ............................................... to  ............................ it has not been reported unfinished 
disciplinary charges against him/her. His/her work behavior and attendance is satisfactory /unsatisfactory. it is 
informed that prescribed examination fees have been paid and the receipt has been pasted, if he/she selected to the 
post of .................................................................................. he can be /cannot be released from the department/
institution.
................................................................
Signature of the Head of department / institution.
Official Stamp.
date: .......................
02-435 PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.