

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 847
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 840
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"015 – 2017 wfm%a,a ui 12 jeks nodod – 2017'04'12
No. 2,015 –  wEdNEsday ,  aPRil  12 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 05th May, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 21st april, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
837-B 81160- 5,403(04/2017)
Note.–   cancer care trust (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of april 07, 2017. 

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
838
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
839
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
840
Posts – vacant
DEPARTmENT Of SPORTS DEvELOPmENT
Recruitment to Post of Supervisory management 
Assistant - Grade III of Technological Service
oNE V acaNcy
aPPlicatioNs are called from the citizens of sri lanka 
to fill the above vacancy existing in the Supervisory 
Management assistant - Grade iii of technological service 
of the department of sports development.
01. Education and Other Qualifications : 
 1.1 Educational Qualifications :
 1.1.1 should have passed the General 
Certificate of Education (O/L) 
Examination in six (06) subjects in one 
sitting with credit passes to Sinhalese/
Tamil/English/Maths/Science and 
another subject ;
   and
 1.1.2 should have passed the General 
Certificate of Education (Advanced 
Level) in 03 subjects under Science/
Maths stream in one sitting. 
 1.2 Professional Qualification : 
 1.2.1 should have obtained a National 
diploma in technology from the 
University of Moratuwa or ampara 
Hardi institute ; 
  or
 1.2.2 National diploma in Engineering 
from the National apprenticeship and 
technical training institute ; 
  or
 1.2.3 Higher National diploma in 
Engineering from the Ministry of 
Education and Higher Education ; 
  or
 1.2.4 diploma in technology from the open 
University of sri lanka ; 
  or
 1.2.5 should have completed National 
V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) level 
6 relevant to the field of vocation ; 
  or
 1.2.6 Any other technical qualification 
which are equivalent to the above 
technical qualifications in every respect 
and recognized by the tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission 
in consultation with the Ministry of 
Higher Education and other certificate 
awarding institutes. 
 1.3 Physical Fitness : 
 1.3.1 Every candidate should be physically 
sound to serve in any part of sri lanka. 
 1.4 Other Qualification : 
 1.4.1 should be a citizen of sri lanka.
 1.4.2 should be of excellent moral character.
 1.4.3 Should possess all qualifications 
required for recruitment to the post by 
01.01.2017 in every respect.
 1.4.4 No person who has entered into the 
order of any religion will not be 
qualified to apply. 
02. (i) Salary Scale.- Rs. 31,040 - 10x445 - 11x660 
- 10x730 -10x750 - Rs. 57,550 Public 
Administration Circular No. 2016/03 will be 
applicable with effect from 01.01.2020.
 (ii) salary code.- (MN-3-2016).
03. General Conditions : 
 3.1 age should not be less than 18 years and not 
more than 30 years by 01.01.2017.
 3.2 Mode of Recruitment .- Recruitment will 
be made by way of a written exam and an 
interview. 
 3.2.1.1 examination Procedure.- the 
examination consists of two written 
papers on two subjects and conducted in 
sinhala, tamil and English languages. 
candidates will not be allowed to change 
the medium once they applied for.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
841
  Total Minimum  Duration 
  Marks Pass Mark
 (i) intelligence test 100 40% 01 hour
 (ii) subject - related  100 40% 03 hours
  question paper
 3.2.1.2 Curriculum : 
 (i) Intelligence Test.- consists of 
questions to test candidate's power 
of guessing, reasoning out and 
analytical power and power of 
taking decisions. 
 (ii) Subject.- Related question paper on 
technology.
 (a) Building Construction : 
 (i) Brick-wall, granite wall.
 (ii) Plaster mixtures, cement 
plastering, concrete mixtures.
 (iii) Various kinds of joining, grooving, 
rabbeting, fitting, tenoning, wall-
plating, contacting. 
 (iv) Various kinds of roof (t itle, 
asbestos, corrugated sheets, 
aluminium sheets, curved title, 
flat concrete).
 (v) Earth work (malling, leveling, 
standard).
 (vi) constructing walls and drainage 
system. 
 (b) Painting.- Painting with various 
kind of paints, painting of walls, 
painting of timber, varnish painting, 
anti-corrosive painting, printed 
painting. 
 (c) Timber classification, seasoning of 
timber, knowledge in laying floor 
and wall terraso.
 (d) Preparing work-plans according to 
sketches furnished.
 (e) Preparing of bills according to bills 
of quantity.
 (f) Basic water supply and drainage :
  Pipes for small-scale building, 
sewage pipes, septic tanks, water-
sealed equipment, water tanks and 
walls. 
 3.2.1.3 General Interview :
  applicants will be called for the general 
interview on the basis of the marks 
obtained at the written test. Number 
of persons similar to the number of 
vacancies will be called for the general 
interview (No marks given).
04. Selection Procedure :
 4.1 Based on the written exam results, applicants 
who scored the highest marks will be recruited 
according to the order of merits considering 
the Number of Vacancies. (applicants who 
fail to prove their basic qualifications at the 
interview will not be recruited even though 
they have requisite aptitude - level). 
05. Preparation of Applications/Perfecting Applications : 
 5.1 applications may be prepared in the language 
the applicant hopes to sit the exam. 
 5.2 in the case of applications submitted in sinhala 
language, the Name of Examination should be 
mentioned in English as well under its heading. 
in the case of tamil applications too applicants 
should follow the suit. 
 5.3 application may be prepared using a4 size 
papers according to the specimen form laid 
down at the end of this notification. 
 5.4 applicant's signature shall be attested by a 
principal of a Government School/Justice of the 
Peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Notary Public/
Commissioned Officer of the Forces/Officer 
in police service holding a Gazette  post or an 
officer holding a tertiary or senior level post 
according to 06/2006 Public Administration 
circular ranking. 
 5.5 Furnishing false information.- if any candidate 
found to have had no requisite qualifications 
or he/she has will fully furnished false 
information and avoided disclosing any 
important matter his/her candidature will be 
liable to be cancelled during the course of 
examination or after the examination and be 
dismissed after appointment to the post. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
842
06. Application : 
 6.1.1 applications duly perfected according to 
the specified format given at the end of this 
notification should be sent under a registered 
cover to teach the following address on or 
before 28.04.2017.
 6.1.2 Applications : 
  applications should be referred to 
  director General, 
  department of sports development, 
  No. 09, Philip Gunawardene Mawatha, 
  colombo 07.
 6.1.3 the top left-hand corner of the envelope 
should bear the legend "Recruitment 
of supervisor Management assistant - 
Technological Grade III Officer". 
 6.1.4 it is advisable to retain a copy of the application 
perfected, with you. 
07. Receiving applications and issuing admission cards. 
 7.1 incomplete applications which are not prepared 
not according to the specified format and not 
submitted during the specified time will be rejected 
without notice. applicants may themselves bear 
consequences arising therefrom. 
 7.2 Receipt of applications are not acknowledged 
complaints with regard to losses in transit will 
not be entertained. 
08. Appearing for examination : 
 8.1 Applicants will be notified of the date and 
place of the Examination. 
 8.2 candidates are advised to get their admission 
cards attested before appearing for 
Examination and submit the admission card 
duty attested, to the Head of the Examination 
center. If not he/she will not be permitted to sit 
for the Examination. candidates are required 
appear for examination in the Examination 
center specifically allocated for him/her. 
 8.3 candidates are subject to rules and regulation 
of the institution that conduct the Examination. 
Violation of such rules may results in 
punishment imposed by such institution. 
09. Identity of Candidates.- Candidate should prove his/
her identity with regard to every subject he is sitting, to the 
entire satisfaction of Head of the Examination center for 
which following are accepted as valid documents : 
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
10. as regards any matter not laid down herein, director 
General of the department of sports development may 
decide. all candidates are bound to act in accordance with 
the general rules of the examination mentioned in this 
Gazette. 
11. in case of any ambiguity or inconsistency between 
the sinhalese and tamil texts. sinhala text will prevail. 
12. Conditions of employment : 
 12.1 this post is permanent and pensionable and 
subject to policy decisions that may be taken 
by Government in future. 
 12.2 Service Conditions : 
  the conditions and provisions as laid down 
in procedural rules of the Public service 
commission published in extraordinary 
Gazette No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and 
provision in the Establishment code will apply 
in respect of every appointment. 
13. if any information furnished herein found to be 
false or seemed to have been willfully suppressed by 
the applicant or he/she has been found to be disqualified 
during the course of his/her service, he/she will be liable 
to be dismissed. 
 s. E. R. t. M. s. P. 
Bandara, 
 director General, 
 department of sports development.
No. 09, 
Philip Gunawardena Mawatha, 
colombo 07.
Specimen application 
department of SportS development recruitment to poSt 
of SuperviSory management aSSiStant technological 
grade iii officer - 2017
Medium of Examination : 
 sinhala  - 2
 t amil  - 3
 (Please state the relevant Number in the box) 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
843
01. Name in full :–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
 (ex. : Gunawardana, M. G. B. s. K.)
03. National identity card No. :
04. sex : 
  Male  - 0
  Female  - 1 
  (Please state the relevant Number)
05. Permanent address : 
  (a) district of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
  (b) divisional secretarial division :–––––––––––.
  (c) t elephone Number :–––––––––––. 
06. date of Birth : 
 (a) y ear  :––––––. Month  :–––––––. date  :–––––––.
 (b) age as at 01.01.2017 :
  y ears  :––––––. Months  :–––––. days  :–––––––.
07. civil status : 
  Married - 1
  Unmarried - 2 (Please state relevant Number)
08. Ethnicity : 
  sinhalese - 1, tamil - 2, other - 3
  (Please state the relevant Number)
09. Education Qualifications : 
  (a) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
   y ear  :–––––––––––.
   index No.  :–––––––––––.
No. Subjects Grade
  (b) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination : 
   y ear  :–––––––––––.
   index No.  :–––––––––––.
No. Subjects Grade
10. Professional qualifications/Technical qualifications :
 (Please submit certified copies of relevant certificates 
along with the application)
 10.1 diploma obtained  :–––––––––––.
 10.2 Name of relevant institution that awarded the 
diploma  :–––––––––––.
 10.3 date of validity of diploma  :–––––––––––.
 10.4 NVQ level of the relevant diploma  :––––––––.
11. Other Qualifications  :–––––––––––.
12. Have you ever been convicted of a court of law or is 
there any on-going judicial procedure against you ? 
Yes/No  :–––––––––––.
 12.1 if yes please state particulars  :–––––––––––.
13. applicant's attestation : 
 (a) i do hereby declare that information furnished 
by me in this application is true and correct. 
 (b) i am aware that in the event that the statement 
made by me is found to be false, i will become 
disqualified for recruitment and that I will 
become liable to be dismissed if such information 
is found to be false, after recruitment.  
 (c) Further i will abide-by rules and regulations that 
may be imposed in relation to this examination. 
 (d) i will not change any information mentioned 
herein. 
  –––––––––––––––,  
 signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
844
14. Certificate of the signature of applicant : 
i certify that ............................. the applicant is 
personally known to me and that he/she set his/her hand 
before me, ................. day of ................. 2017.
 –––––––––––––,
 signature of attestor. 
date  :–––––––––––.
04-408
–––––––––––––––
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION 
Open basis Recruitment to the Post of Legal 
Officer, Executive Category of Ministry of Prison 
Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and hindu 
Religious Affairs
aPPlicatioNs are invited from the sri lankan citizens 
with the under mentioned qualifications in order to recruit 
to the post of legal officer, Executive category of Ministry 
of Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and Hindu 
Religious affairs.
Number of posts - 01
01. Method of recruitment.- Recruitment will be made 
on the order of the merit secured at the structured interview 
to be conducted by an interview board to be appointed 
by the Public service commission. there the structured 
interview will be conducted in accordance with the method 
of marking (mentioned under No. 06) approved by the 
Public service commission.
02. Qualifications : 
 (i) Educational/Professional Qualifications.- should 
have possessed a llB degree obtained from a 
university recognized by the University Grants 
commission or be an attorney-at-law of the 
supreme court. 
 (ii) experience.- candidate should have acquired a 
professional practice of not less than three (03) 
years, from the enrolment as an attorney-at-law. 
 (iii) Physical fitness.- Every candidate should possess 
a sufficient physical and mental condition that 
permits to perform their duties in any part within 
sri lanka. 
 (iv) Other Qualifications : 
 * should be a citizen of sri lanka.
 * should possess an exemplary character.
 * Should satisfy all the qualifications in each 
and every aspect ; as at the date prescribed 
in the Gazette/notification for calling 
applications. 
03. Terms of engagement and terms of service : 
 (i) this post is permanent and pensionable. 
 (ii) the appointment is subject to a probationary 
period of three (03) years. The officer 
is required to pass the 1st efficiency bar 
examination within 03 years from the date 
on which the recruitment will be made to the 
post of Legal Officer Grade III. 
 (iii) in terms of the Public administration 
Circular No. 07/2007 and the circulars issued 
incidental there to, the officer recruited to the 
post should require the prescribed language 
proficiency within five years of appointing 
to the post. The officer who enters the public 
service in a medium of language other than in 
a medium of any of official languages should 
required to reach the requisite standard of 
proficiency within the probationary period. 
 (iv) candidates recruited to this post will be 
subjected to the articles of Establishment 
code, Regulations, departmental orders 
and regulations and any other orders and 
regulations already issued and issued from 
time to time by the Government. 
04. Age limit.- applicants  should not be less than 21 
years of age and more than 35 years of age to the closing 
date of receiving applications. 
05. Salary Scale.- this post carries a monthly salary 
scale of Rs. 47,615 -10x1,335 -8x1,630 -17x2,170 -                      
Rs. 110,895 (in terms of the Public administration circular 
No. 03/2016).
06. structured interview shall base on following method 
of marking : 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
845
 Spheres in respect of Maximum 
 marks are awarded  Marks
01. additional Educational qualifications  20
02. Additional Professional qualifications  15
03. additional experience (Except the   05
 minimum 03 years of service  (05 marks
 experience requisite as an  per one
 attorney-at-law under the professional  year)
 qualifications)  
04. English language proficiency  15
05. information technology literacy  15
06. talents shown at the interview  05
        t otal  100
07. The identification of the candidate : 
 * only the candidates who have forwarded 
completed applications in every respect are 
called for the structured interview. 
 * Original of the certificates and duly certified 
copies of them should be produced at the 
interview.
 * Following identification documents are accepted 
to prove own identity at the interview : 
  the National identity card issued by the 
commissioner General of Registration of 
Persons.
  a  valid passport.
08. Method of application : 
 (a) application should be sent by registered post 
to reach the secretary, Ministry of Prison 
reforms, Rehabilitation, Resettlement and 
Hindu Religious affairs, No. 356, Galle Road, 
colombo 03 on or before 05th of May, 2017.
 (b) specimen application form is given at the end 
of this notice. application should be prepared 
on a4 size paper inserting headings 01 to 06 
on first page, 07 to 10 on second page and 11 to 
12.2 on the third page. the relevant particulars 
should be entered in candidate's own legible 
handwriting. 
 (c) the top hand corner of the envelope should 
carry the word "Application for Legal Officer 
of Ministry of Prison reforms, Rehabilitation, 
Resettlement and Hindu Religious affairs". 
 (d) candidate should get their signature attested 
by a Head of Government School/Justice of 
peace/Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-
Law/Notary Public/Commissioned officer 
of triple force or a permanent Government 
staff officer in receipt of an monthly salary of                  
Rs. 47,615.
 (e) Candidates who are in Government Service/
Provincial Government service should 
forward their applications through their Heads 
of departments.
 (f) applications not in accordance with the given 
specimen application will be rejected. any 
complaint to the effect of loss or delay of an 
application will not be entertained. 
09. Furnishing false particulars.- any statement in the 
application which is found to be incorrect and inaccurate 
before the recruitment your candidature will liable to 
cancellation. the applicant will liable to dismissed 
from the post and subjected to relevant procedures, if 
it discovered after the selection. the Public service 
commission will reserve the right of recruitment to this 
post and commencement of appointment. 
the scheme of recruitment and further information can 
be downloaded from the official website of the Ministry 
and link in resettlementmin.gov.lk
By order of the Public service commission, 
 secretary, 
 Ministry of Prison Reforms, Rehabilitation, 
 Resettlement and Hindu Religious affairs. 
sPEciMEN aPPlicatioN FoRM 
open competitive examination for recruitment to the 
poSt of legal officer, executive category of miniStry 
of priSon reformS, rehaBilitation, reSettlement and 
hindu religiouS affairS
 No. :
  (For office use only)
01. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :
 in sinhala :––––––––––.
 in English :––––––––––.
 01.1 Names denoted by initials (in clear letters) :
  in sinhala :––––––––––.
  in English :––––––––––.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
846
02.  National identity card No. :––––––––––.
03. date of Birth : 
 y ear :––––––––. Month :––––––––. date :––––––––.
 03.1 age as at the closing date :
  y ears :––––––. Months :––––––. days :–––––.
04. Sex (Male/Female) :
 Male  - M
 Female - F
05. Permanent address (in block letters) :––––––––––.
06. t elephone Numbers : 
 Fixed :––––––––––.
 Mobile :––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications : 
 07.1 G. C. E. (A/L) :
  (i) Examination year and month :––––––––.
  (ii) index Number :––––––––––.
  (iii) subjects :
Subjects Grades
 07.2 details of the degree obtained : 
 (i) University  :––––––––––.
 (ii) y ear  :––––––––––.
 (iii) degree :––––––––––.
08. Experience :
 (i) Period of practice from the enrolment as an 
attorney-at-law :––––––––––.
09. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law ? 
Yes/No
 (i) if "yes" specify :––––––––––.
10. applicant's declaration : 
 (i) i hereby certify that the information provided 
by me in this application is true and accurate to 
the best of my knowledge. 
 (ii) i am aware that in the event of any information 
provided by me in this application is found 
to be false i am liabl e to disqualified for the 
recruitment to this post and if so found after 
appointment i am liable to be dismissed. 
 (iii) i declare that later on, no alteration is made for 
information above provided. 
  –––––––––––––,
  signature of the candidate. 
date :––––––––––.
11. attestation of the signature of the applicant : 
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ........................... 
who submit this application is personally known to me, 
and he/she placed his signature on ............................ in 
paragraph 10 in my presence. 
  ––––––––––––,
  signature of the attester.
date :––––––––––.
Name of the attester :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Establish with a rubber stamp)
12. Recommendation of Head of department (only for 
applicants serving in the Public/Provincial Public 
service)
 12.1 During the period of immediate preceding five 
years to the closing date of applications ; work, 
conduct and attendance of the candidate is 
satisfied/unsatisfied. He/She, has/has not earned 
all the increments. He/She has been/has not been 
subjected to a disciplinary punishment. 
 12.2  This officer can be/cannot be released from the 
post if he/she is selected to the post applied. The 
application is recommended/not recommended. 
 –––––––––––––, 
 signature of the Head of department 
 and Rubber stamp. 
date :––––––––––.
04-503

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
847
mINISTRy Of PubLIC ADmINISTRATION AND mANAGEmENT
fIRST  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  fOR  OffICERS  IN  SRI  LANkA  ADmINISTRATIvE  
SERvICE,  SRI  LANkA  ENGINEERING  SERvICE,  SRI  LANkA  SCIENTIfIC SERvICE,  
SRI  LANkA  ARChITECTS' SERvICE, SRI LANkA ACCOuNTANTS' SERvICE AND SRI LANkA 
PLANNING SERvICE - 2016(II) AND SECOND EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR OffICERS IN  
SRI  LANkA   ADmINISTRATIvE  SERvICE, SRI LANkA ACCOuNTANTS' SERvICE AND SRI LANkA 
PLANNING SERvICE -  2017 (I) 
it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri 
Lanka Planning Service 2016(II) and Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative 
service, sri lanka accountants' service and sri lanka Planning service 2017(i) shall be held in colombo during 
weekends from 20.05.2017 to 22.07.2017 by the director General sri lanka institute of development administration, 
under the supervision and direction of Ministry of Public administration and Management. 
02. The language test relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examinations which is due to be held in respect of the above 
services shall be as follows: 
 Serial  Name of the examination  Code  
 No.
      
 1.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service SLAS 1 
 2.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service SLES  
 3.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service SLSS  
 4.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service SLArS 
 5.  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service SLAcS I
 6. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service SLPS I
 7. other services which can apply for the above examination other
 8. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service SLAS 2
 9. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service SLAcS 2
 10. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service SLPS 2
   
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is 
compulsory to pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period. 
04. this examination shall be conducted by the director General of sri lanka institute of development 
administration and the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to conducting 
the examination. candidates shall  be subjected to any punishment imposed by disciplinary authority for violation of 
these rules and regulations. 
05. applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk.  the official web site of 
the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting 
the relevant examination from the sub menu “apply online” at the right side of web site's main page. 
Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 12.04.2017 up to 12.00 midnight 
on 02.05.2017. 
06. examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not to pay the 
examination fees. at such occasions where a candidate, who has made application, has not sat for the examination even 
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
848
after issuing an admission by sri lanka institute of development administration that should be considered as a sitting for 
the examination. For subsequent sittings, officers shall pay the examination fee in the following manner. 
Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service 
should pay the examination fee considering that the First Examination Bar Examination as one Examination and second 
Efficiency Bar Examination as another examination. Accordingly, Rs. 1,000 should be paid if it is applied for more than 
one subject of the First Efficiency Bar examination. Rs. 1,000 should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of 
the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 500 should be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency 
Bar examination and Rs. 500 should be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. 
The officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service 
should pay Rs. 1,000, if they applying for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar examination and Rs. 500 
should be paid, if they are sitting for only one subject. 
Examination fee shall be paid by any post office all over the Island (except sub post offices) to be credited to 
the “slida”account and the number of the receipt issued shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. 
When filling the application for inland telegraphic money order (format 85) for payment of money to “slida” account, 
“slida” should be mentioned as the recipient. in the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination shall be 
indicated at the place for the recipient's address. (the code names should be as mentioned in section 02).
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including the name of the applicant 
as the remitter and the N.i.c. Number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter. 
07. Getting Admissions for the First Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and 
Sri Lanka Planning Service and Second Efficiency Bar examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
accountants' service and sri lanka Planning service. 
When the applications filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. candidates will be able to get their admission card of the examination by way 
of following the instructions indicated in the web page to which the candidate shall have the access once the application 
duly perfected is sent online. The candidate shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified 
by the respective Head of the Department or a deputy officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card 
certified in this manner shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the examination. A copy of admission card certified as 
for that manner shall be submitted to the Head of the Departments for the purpose of attaching to the personal file of the 
candidates. 
Note.– The private address, place of work and the official address shall be clearly included when filling the 
application online. 
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone 
Number  011 - 5980236 of sri lanka institute of development administration. communication can be made through this 
line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.15 p.m. during working days of the week from 12.04.2017 to 02.05.2017. 
09. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number           
011 -5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination. 
10. Identity of Candidates.– candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of  Persons. 
 (ii)  a valid Passport.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
849
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of sri lanka institute of development administration. 
11. the examination will be held in sinhala, tamil and English media. if it is found that a candidate has appeared 
for the examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant shall be cancelled. 
a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form. 
12. Scheme of examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows :-  duration 
of each question paper is three (03 hours). at least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each subject by a candidate to 
pass this Efficiency Bar Examination. 
 
12.1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "G" of Sri Lanka 
administrative service Minute published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 
  
  The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination are given below : 
 Serial  Subjects  Duration  Subject 
 Number    Number 
 01  law constitutional law and administrative law 03 hours  01-i
   the legal systems of sri lanka 03 hours 01-ii
   criminal law and law of Evidence 03 hours 01-iii
 02  administration  03 hours 02-i
 03  Economics and social science 03 hours  03 
 04  Financial Management and procurement procedure in the 03 hours 04
  Public sector
12.1.1 Law  
  three question papers based on the following : 
  first (I) question paper –
  Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01-I- 100 marks)  
 (i) the structure of the constitution of sri lanka and the Republic constitution of 1978 with the historical 
development. 
 (ii) the Executive, President of the Republic, Prime Minister, cabinet of Ministers and Public service. 
 (iii) administration of Justice. 
 (iv) Judicial control over administration. 
 (v) directive Principles of the state Policy and Fundamental duties. 
 (vi) delegated legislation.
 (vii) liability of the state and the Public authorities. 
 (viii) Fundamental Rights.
  Second (II) question paper -
  The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-II -100 marks)  
 (i)  administration of Justice
 (ii) the legal History of sri lanka 
 (iii)  the organization of the courts 
 (iv)  the courts ordinance of sri lanka (chapter 6) 
 (v)  administration of Justice act, No. 44 of 1971 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
850
   Third (III) Question paper -
   Criminal Law and Law of Evidence  (Subject No. 01-III- 100 marks)  
 (i) the Penal code 
 (ii)  the Evidence ordinance. 
A candidate shall be required to obtain a minimum of thirty five (35%) of marks each paper and an average 
of Forty percent (40%) in order to pass the subject of law. 
12.1.2. Administration (Subject No. 02-I - 100 marks) 
  a  question paper based on the following: 
 (i)  Office and field organization and methods of organization ; 
 (ii)  Following chapters of the Establishments code 
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XlVii and XlViii), Procedural Rules of the Public service commission. 
 12.1.3. Economics and Sociology (Subject No. 03- 100 marks) 
   this question paper consists of two parts. 
   First (i) part - Economics 
 (i)  Principles of Economics with special reference to theories of Value,  Production and distribution; 
 (ii)  Money, Production and distribution ; 
 (iii)  Economic background of sri lanka and policies, strategies and programmes relevant to economic 
development with special reference to the Economic structure of sri lanka. 
  second (ii) part – sociology  
  (i)  social structure, organization and Functions; 
  (ii) Human Relationships and Groupings; 
  (iii)  Kinship, Marriage and the Family; 
  (iv)  Rural and Urban society; 
  (v)  Social Stratification and differentiations; 
  (vi)  social control; 
  (vii)  culture, Religion, Morals and Values. 
  a  candidate shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) marks for each part to pass the subject of 
Economics and sociology. 
12.1.4. financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector (Subject No. 04-100 marks)
  
  A question paper based on the following :
 (i) Financial in sri lanka; 
  * constitutional Provisions Relating to the Management of Public Finance 
  * Parliamentary control over Public Finance  
  * Meaning of Fund 
  * the consolidated Fund and its operation 
  * Meaning and Methods of appropriation 
  * contingencies Fund 
  * other Funds and their operation 
  * Government Revenue 
  * Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance 
  * Powers and Functions of the treasury 
  * warrants and imprest authority 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
851
  * auditor General, his Powers and Functions 
  * committee on Public accounts (coPa)
  * committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
 (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers, 
their Powers and Functions/accountability and nature of accountability.
 (iii) internal audit 
 (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management; 
  * Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
  * Identification of Public Policies, Goals, Targets and Programmes 
  * Planning and appraisal of development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of them 
  * Formulation and Finalization of annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure 
 (v)  variations of approved Estimates of Expenditure : 
  * application of Virement Procedure
  * Management of Public sector cadres and salaries 
  * total cost Estimates and Revisions 
  * supplementary Estimates 
 (vi)  losses and waivers of government properties 
 (vii)  Miscellaneous accounting matters 
 (viii)  delegation of Functions for Financial control 
 (ix)  custody of Public Money and Bank accounts Procedure 
 (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
  * Government Procurement Manual
  * Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule ''iii'' of Sri 
lanka Engineering service Minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1836/6 dated 11.11.2013).
 The officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No.  Subjects  Duration  Subject  No. 
01   administration  03 hours  02-ii 
02   Financial systems  03 hours  05-i 
03   Department/establishment methodologies Since this examination is conducted by the Head 
    of  the  institution, particulars in this regard are   
   not published in this notification.
the minimum marks required to pass each subjecte is 40.
12.2.1 Administration (Subject No. 02-II -100 marks)
 a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering service based on V olume i of 
the Establishments code published in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume ii of the Establishments 
code published in 1999 and the Procedural Rules of Public service commission (subjected to 
timely revisions). 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
852
12.2.2 Financial systems (subject No. 05-i - 100 marks)
 a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering service based on all the 
chapters in Financial Regulations published in 1992 except chapter iX and X and criteria for 
national procurement guidelines (subjected to timely revisions) 
12.3  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service Minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014) and
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
architects' service Minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014)
 Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
    Subject   Duration  Subject  Number 
Financial systems   03 hours  05-ii
administration   03 hours  02-iii
departmental regulations since this examination is conducted by the Head of the 
   institution, particulars in this regard are not published in
   this notification.
12.3.1  financial Systems : (Subject No. 05-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper based on the following :
 (i) Financial control in sri lanka :
  * constitutional Provisions relating to Public Financial Management
  * Parliamentary control over Public Finance
  * Definition of Fund
  * consolidated Fund and its function
  * object and Methodologies of appropriation
  * contingent Fund
  * other Funds and their functions
  * state Revenue
  * Powers and role of the Finance Minister
  * Powers and role of the General treasury
  * warrants and imprest authority
  * Powers and role of the auditor General
  * committe on Public accounts (coPa)
  * committee on Public Enterprises (coPE)
 (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers on State Revenue, their powers and 
role/accountability and the nature of their responsibilities. 
 (iii) internal audit.
 (iv) Planning and Management of Public Expenditure.
  * Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
  * Identification of Public Policies, Objectives, Targets and Programmes
  * Planning of development Projects and Programmes and prioritizing the evaluation
  * Preparation of annual estimate on income and expenditure and taking final decisions
 (v) Making changes of approved Estimates
  * implementation of wee Ramon Procedure
  * Management of cadre and salaries of Public sector
  * total cost Estimates and making revisions to the same
  * supplementary Estimates

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
853
 (vi) losses and omissions of state properties
 (vii) Various accounting activities
 (viii) Entrusting tasks for financial management
 (ix) Custody of Public finance and procedure of bank accounts
 (x) Government Procurement process 
  * code of Procurement Procedure Government
  * Procurement Guidelines of the Government
 
  Note.– the candidates shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.3.2 Administration : (Subject No. 02-III -100 marks)
  a  question paper is based on the following :
 (i) Following chapters of the Establishment code.
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, iX, Xi, XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXiX, XXX, XXXi, 
XXXii, XXXiii, XlVii and XlViii.
 (ii) Procedural Rules of Public service commission published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 
1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for the subject. 
 12.4  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service (The appendix 03 
of the service Minute of sri lanka accountants' service published on the Gazette extraordinary dated 
10.09.2010 and No. 1670/33)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
  Subjects of the first Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows :
 
Serial No. Subject Duration (Hours) Subject No.
01 Government Financial Procedures 03 hours 06
02 law and Management 03 hours 07
03 administration 03 hours 02-iV
04 Report writing and presenting 
information to Management
03 hours 08
 12.4.1 Government financial Regulations (Subject No. 06) (100 marks)
  candidates will be tested on the application of Financial Regulations and treasury circulars in 
government transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, 
foreign aid, annual and supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders, imprests and 
advances, financial sanctions, the State account, functional and economic classifications, 
programme and performance budgeting, functions of the Minister of Finance. the General 
treasury, the Ministry of Finance, the secretaries, the auditor General and the Public accounts 
committee. 
 12.4.2 Law and management (Subject No. 07) (100 marks)
  Law - Definition of Law
    legal systems of sri lanka
    courts systems of sri lanka
    law of contract
    law of agency

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
854
    sale of goods
    Hire purchase
    Negotiable instruments
    Guarantee of securities
    insurance
  Management - introduction to Management
    Functions and skills of Managers
    Planning process and setting organizational levels
    organization structure
    Human resource Management
    Performance evaluation
    Promotion 
    Motivation
    leadership
    communication 
    decision Making
    Conflict resolution 
    Change Management/Conflicts Management/Time Management
    Quality circles and Production and Result
    Management ethics and responsibilities
 12.4.3 Administration (Subject No. 02-Iv) (100 marks)
  chapters of the Establishments code, Vii, iX, Xi, Xii, XV , XXiii, XXV , XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, 
XXiX, XXX, XXXi, XXXii, XXXiii, Xl Vii, XlViii and Procedural rules of Public service 
commission (i to Vi).
 12.4.4 Report writing and presenting information to the management (Subject No. 08) (100 marks)
  importance of accuracy, of timeliness and of perfection of management information, dealing with  
   reference information 
  Periodic and ad-hoc reports
  w riting minutes of meetings and notes
   structure of management reports
   important results that should be highlighted
  interpretation of results
  suggesting variations
  Use of statistical name systems in data analysis
  comparison of Performance 
  Use of ratios and percentages in management reports
   diagrammatic representation
   listening to professional talks and lectures
   Reporting lectures through speech 
   Panel discussions
   seminar abilities
   delivering a speech 
  Note.- the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject to pass. 
 12.5 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Grade III of Sri Lanka Planning Service (The 
appendix c service Minute of the sri lanka Planning service published on the Gazette extraordinary 
dated 10.09.2010 and No. 1670/32).
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
855
  Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration
(Hours)
Subject No.
01 Planning concepts, Methodology and Planning 
institutions
03 09
02 Economic analysis and statistics 03 10
03 Project Planning, implementation Monitoring and 
Evaluation
03 11
04 institutional Regulations and Public sector Financial 
Methods
03 12
05 English language 03 13
 12.5.1 the examination should be passed within the prescribed time period as per the provisions in the 
Service Minute and the Letter of Appointment and an officer is allowed to appear for all the papers 
at one sitting or different sittings for each subject. 
 Scheme of Examination : 
 12.5.2 Planning concepts, methodology and Planning Institutions (Subject No. 09) (100 marks)
 (i) National objectives and priorities and planning policy framework and programmes for their 
achievement.
 (ii) Methodology for National Planning, Major problem areas in Planning, Public participation 
and mobilization of resources etc. 
 (iii) Nature and sources of data for National Planning, collection of data, presentation of 
interpretation and analysis, field supervision and investigations demographic concepts, 
economic projections and policy analysis.
 12.5.3 Economic Analysis and statistics (Subject No. 10) (100 marks)
 (i) Principles of economics with special emphasis on the theories of production and distribution.
 (ii) Finance, Banking systems, international Financial Methods and trade.
 (iii) analysis of monetary, Monetary trade and tariff Policies.
 (iv) Economic structure of sri lanka.
 (v) Review of the Economy.
 (vi) assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower and other resources including 
foreign aid and their utilization. 
 (vii) Economics and social incidents. 
 (viii) Economic analysis and basis statistical concepts and methods used in planning. 
 (ix) Principles of Benefit/Cost Analysis. 
 12.5.4 Project Planning, Implementation, Supervision and monitoring (Subject No. 11) (100 marks)
 (i) Planning, Identification and defining projects and project planning policies, theories, selection 
of location, estimation of technology and cost and benefits, technical, financial and economic 
analysis.
 (ii) Project Implementation and operation/supervision, proper and timely implementation of 
projects and programmes, preparation of detailed operational plans and implementation 
schedules, co-ordination of monitoring and progress control and follow up action. 
 (iii) Evaluation of projects, assessment of effectiveness of projects and programmes analysis of 
benefits in relation to costs. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
856
 12.5.5 Institution Regulations and financial methods of the Public Sector (Subject No. 12) (100 
marks)
 (i) Government Financial Regulations. V olume i (except chapter X)
 (ii) chapters vii, ix, xi, xii, xv, xxiii, xxv, xxvi, xxvii, xxviii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xl  vii, 
xlviii Procedural rules of Public service commission (i to Vi).
 (iii) Financial control of sri lanka.- statutory Provisions relating to Public Finance Management, 
Parliamentary control over Public Finance, consolidated Fund and its operation, aim of 
appropriation and appropriation Methods, state revenue, powers and function of Minister 
of Finance, powers and the function of the treasury, warrant and imprest authority, auditor 
General his powers and function, Public Expenditure committee, Public Enterprises 
committee. 
 (iv) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting officers of 
state Revenue their powers and function. 
 (v) Planning and Management of State Expenditure, Identification of objectives and functions 
of organizations, preparation of annual estimates and expenditure and taking final decisions, 
effecting changes in the approved estimates of expenditure, implementation of virement 
procedure, management of cadres in the Public sector, supplementary estimates. 
 (vi) Government Procurement Procedure.- Procuring goods, services and work, composition of 
tender Boards and technical evaluation committees, powers and function of appointment, 
tender evaluation procedure, management of foreign funded projects. 
 12.5.6 English Language (Subject No. 13) (100 marks)
 (i) a  written examination in English language will be held to test the academic and professional 
knowledge of English of candidates in relation to subject of Planning, development and 
Management. 
 12.6 Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "h" 
of the service Minute of sri lanka administrative service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 
1842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 
  the subjects for this examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 Economic and social Policy (with special 
reference to sri lanka)
03 hours 14
02 Process of development administration 
(with special reference to sri lanka)
03 hours 15
03 Use of information and communication 
technology for management
03 hours 16
04 Proficiency in the link language 03 hours 17

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
857
 12.6.1 Economic and social policies (With special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 14) (100 
marks)
  this question paper is based on matters affecting the formulation of economic and social policies 
using principles of Economics and social sciences in the context of recent economic, social and 
political history of sri lanka. 
  Note.- the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.6.2 Process of Development Administration (With special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 
15) (100 marks)
  this question paper is based on the functioning and inter-relationships of institutions entrusted 
with the responsibility of development administration with special reference to matters mentioned 
below : 
 (i) state machinery of sri lanka.
 (ii) constitutional background of the state machinery of sri lanka.
 (iii) Provincial councils and local government institutions.
 (iv) People's organizations.
 (v) Public corporations.
  Note.- the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.6.3 use of information and communication technology for management (Subject No. 16) (100 
marks)
  this is a practical test conducted by the sri lanka institute of development administration to test 
the knowledge of the applicant on following subject areas. 
 (i) importance of the use of information and communication technology for state institutes.
 (ii) data analysis and preparation of reports.
 (iii) data base management and retrieval of information.
 (iv) Use of information and communication technology in project management. 
 (v) Preparation of management information systems. 
  Note.- the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.6.4 Proficiency in English Language (Subject No. 17) (100 marks)
  scheme of Evaluation : written Examination 
  content : the following subject areas are suggested for the candidate's reference : 
 (i)  Communication Skills 
  the candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following language 
functions. 
 · General Greetings and introductions 
 · Giving and Getting information 
 · advising, suggesting and Expressing opinions 
 · t elephone skills 
 · interviewing skills 
 · Expression skills 
 · listening and Note taking skills 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
858
 (ii)  Writing Skills 
  the knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study.
  · internal modes of communication 
  · Formal correspondence skills 
  · Writing Descriptions/Explanations 
  · Grammar
  · summary writing skills 
  · Report writing skills 
  · Meeting Minutes/ Agendas/Invitations 
 (iii)  Comprehension Skills 
  Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/ written 
interpretation is expected. 
  · Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text.
  · Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written).
  · Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage. 
  Note : a candidate shall be required to obtain at least of 40% marks for this subject.
 12.7 Second Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : 
  (appendix 04 of the service Minute of sri lanka accountants' service published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1670/33 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 
  The subjects for the second efficiency bar examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No. 
01 Management accountancy 03 hours 18
02 Public Financial Management 03 hours 19
03 Management and organization 03 hours 20
 12.7.1 Management accountancy (subject No. 18) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  control theory on accounting - Feedback - open and closed. types of ideal standard costs, 
principles of performance standards and their application, revision of standards, learning circles 
and determination of motivation, analysis of variations and sub variations, analysis of significance, 
presentation and investigation of variances, behavioral aspects of control accounting, concepts of 
budgeting, administration of budgetary control, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, 
master and supplementary budgets, budget centers, management participation, intervention and 
motivation in the preparation of budgets, the budget period and identification of the principal 
budget factor. 
  Note : a candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
 12.7.2 Public financial management (Subject No. 19) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 
marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  Role of the Government accountant. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
859
  Knowledge of constitutional and legal framework of public finance Institutional framework, Central 
government Public corporations, local Government institutions, co-operative movements etc. 
  Parliamentary control, Functions of the treasury, Ministry of Planning, Estimates committee, 
auditor General, Public accounts committee, consolidated Fund, problems of parliamentary 
control. 
  Financial circle, Preparation of Planning programmes, Preparations of budget, approval of funds, 
accounting, reporting, monitoring and auditing.
  Project evaluation, service prices and use of statistical data, payment theory and deciding on the 
anticipated value. 
  Cost benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal effective ratio, project ranking, economic 
financial and management aspects of project formulation and evaluation, successful Submission 
of projects. 
  t echniques of programming, use of network analysis, allocation of resources, problems of 
transport, deterioration of resources due to usage or with the passage of time, replacement of 
resources which do not deteriorate but become useless due to partial usage or due to passage of 
time, performance budgets, Establishment and use of basic methods, Measurement of performance, 
types of measurements, selection of units and measurements, types of measurements and analysis 
of performance. 
  Programme Budgeting, programme structure, classifications according to functions, Programme 
work, Expenditure projects and expenditure items, economics and activity related classification. 
  Financial control systems, level of responsibilities, internal control and financial regulations, 
internal audit, performance auditing, management auditing, variance analysis, decisions on 
providing capital budgets, long term planning and it's importance, forecasting, risk analysis of 
accuracy and limitations, decision trees, probability factors. 
  demand on capital, issues in estimating earnings and effectiveness of capital investments identify 
and allocate for risk factors when prioritize and standardize projects. Pay back determinants, 
calculating of accounting rate of return, net present value and DCF yields, influence of taxation 
and incentives, investment appraisal, Project cost control and post audit. 
  decisions on capacities, product mix, make or buy alternative methods of manufacture, shut 
down problems, pricing policies and contribution theory, influence of customer demand, patterns, 
elasticity of demand, Marketing strategy, techniques of evaluation of performance, profitability 
criteria and ratios. 
  analysis of return on capital, Management of working capital. 
  Financial control of government commercial enterprises, Budgeting, Management reporting, 
interpretation of financial statements and the use of financial ratios. 
  Pricing in Public Enterprises:
  accounting plan and its contents, Government reports and Public undertakings. 
  Note : a candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
 12.7.3 Management and organization (subject No. 20) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
 
  Questions will be set to test the knowledge of the candidate on management and principles of 
organization, use of these principles with regard tot he problems and issues in the public sector and 
the knowledge on new management strategies and techniques. 
  Note : the candidate shall be required to obtain at least of 40% marks for this subject.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
860
 12.8 Second Efficiency Bar examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service : 
  (appendix "d" of the service Minute of sri lanka Planning service published in the Gazette extraordinary 
No. 1670/32 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 12.8.1 The second efficiency bar examination shall consist of the following subjects : 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 techniques of development Planning 03 hours 21
05 Basic Macro Economics 03 hours 22
06 current international Economic and 
Political crises and their impact on the 
sri lankan Economy
03 hours 23
 12.8.2 the examination should be passed within or before the prescribed period as per the provisions 
in the Service Minute and the letter of appointment and an officer is allowed to appear for all the 
subjects at one sitting or subjects separately at several sittings. 
 12.8.3 it is compulsory to answer all the questions in a question paper. 
  syllabus :
 i. development Planning techniques (subject No. 21) (100 marks)
 (i) swot  analysis
 (ii) Problem tree
 (iii) logical Framework analysis
 (iv) Cost Benefit Analysis
 (v) Pay Back Method
 (vi) Net Present Value
 (vii) internal Rate of Return
 (viii) application of shadow Price.
  Note : the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
ii. Basic Macro Economics (subject No. 22) (100 marks)
 (i) National accounts
 (ii) Rate of Economic Growth
 (iii) Balanced National Revenue
 (iv) Multiplier Effect
 (v) Inflation
 (vi) Rate of interest
 (vii) an introduction to Public Fiscal Policy
 (viii) an introduction to Fiscal Policy
 (ix) Business circle.
  Note : the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
iii. current international  Economic crises and their impact on sri lankan Economy (subject No. 23) 
(100 Marks)
 current international Economic crises and their impact on sri lankan Economy. (answers have 
to be given on topics which have a timely relevance to emerging world economic conditions)
  Note : the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
861
13. the time table of the examination is as follows : 
 Serial Name  of  the  Subject  Subject  Date  Time 
 No.  examination   No.   
 01  1st  Efficiency  Bar   Constitutional Law and  01 -I 20.05. 2017  9.00 a. m. -12.00 p. m.
  Examination for  administrative law    
  Officers of Sri  Lanka  Legal Systems of Sri Lanka  01-II  20.05. 2017  12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p. m.
  administrative  criminal law and Evidence law 01-iii 21.05. 2017  09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
  service  administration  02-i  21.05. 2017  12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p. m.
   Economics and sociology 03  27.05. 2017  09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p.m.
   Financial Management in the public 04  27.05. 2017  12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p. m. 
    sector and procurement process
 02  1st  Efficiency  Bar  Financial Systems  05-I 28.05. 2017  09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  Examination  for       
  Officers of Sri Lanka  Administration 02-II 28.05. 2017  12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  Engineering service     
 03  1st Efficiency Bar  Financial Systems  05-II  03.06. 2017  09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
  Examination  for       
  Officers of Sri Lanka  Administration 02-III 03.06. 2017  12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  Scientific Service      
 04  1st  Efficiency  Bar   Financial Systems  05-II  03.06. 2017   09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m.
  Examination  for      
  Officers of Sri Lanka  Administration 02-III 03.06. 2017   12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  architects' service     
 
 05  1st Efficiency Bar Government Financial regulations 06 10.06.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  Examination for Officers Law and Management 07 10.06.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  of sri lanka accountants' administration 02-iV 17.06.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  service Report writing and Presenting 08 17.06.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
   information to Management
 06 1st Efficiency Bar Planning concepts, Methodology 09 24.06.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  Examination for Officers and Planning Institutions
  of sri lanka Planning Economic analysis and statistics 10 24.06.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  service Project Planning, implementation 11 25.06.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
    Monitoring and Evaluation
   institutional regulations and Public 12 25.06.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
    sector Financial Methods
   English language 13 01.07.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
 07 2nd Efficiency Bar Economic and Social Policy 14 01.07.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  Examination for Officers (With special reference to Sri Lanka) 
  of sri lanka administrative Process of development  15 01.07.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  service  administration
    (with special reference to sri 
    lanka)
   Use of information and  16 date of the practical test to be held by 
    communication technology for   shall be informed by the director General
    management  of sri lanka institute of development 
     administration after the closing date
     of applications

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
862
   Proficiency in the Link Language 17 09.07.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
 08 2nd Efficiency Bar Management Accountancy 18 15.07.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  Examination for Officers  Pubilc Financial Management 19 15.07.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  of sri lanka accountants' Management and organization 20 16.07.2017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  service
 09 2nd Efficiency Bar Techniques of Development 21 16.07.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
  Examination for Officers  Planning
  of sri lanka Planning Basic Micro Economics 22 22.07.3017 09.00 a. m. - 12.00 p. m. 
  service current international Economic  23 22.07.2017 12.30 p. m. - 03.30 p.m.
    crises and their impact on sri  
    lankan Economy
  
14. 14.1 Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and Second 
language test shall be made in the following manner. 
examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination for 
officers in Sri Lanka
administrative service
law should be a Barrister, advocate in a supreme 
court, a Graduate in law from a University 
accepted by University Grants commission
Note:  1. The exemption for Sociology or Economics in the First Efficiency Bar shall be made applicable to 
the officers of Sri Lanka Administrative Service recruited from 01.07.2012 to 23.12.2013 under the 
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005.
 14.2  Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5(b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers 
were required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes 
before the effective date of (01.07.2012) of the above service minute, the officers who are unable to pass 
the same as at 31.12.2014 should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examinations held under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects 
of each Efficiency Bar Examination as per the existed service minute. Corresponding subjects are given 
in the following table. 
Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005 The New Service Minute No. 1842/2 dated 
23.12.2013
law
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
law
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
administration
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
administration
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economics or sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economics or sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Financial Management in the Public sector
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Financial Management in the Public sector and 
procurement process
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
English
(First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Proficiency in the Link Language
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
15. Issuance of results: The results of all the candidates who have applied/ sat for this examination shall be 
published in the web site of the Ministry of Public administration and Management. Publishing of the results in the 
 Serial Name  of  the  Subject  Subject  Date  Time 
 No.  examination   No.   

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2017
863
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  laNKa.
website of the Ministry shall be considered as an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the circular Number 
SP/SB/1/13 and dated 13th October 2009 of Secretary to H. E. the President on the e-documents and e-Communication. 
accordingly, Heads of the departments shall include the relevant copies of the results sheets of the examination published 
in the website of the Ministry to the personal files of the officers. It is not allowed to re-scrutinize the results of the 
examination. 
16. any matter not referred to herein will be decided by secretary to the Ministry of Public administration and 
Management.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
 
 J. J. 
rathnaSiri,
 secretary,
 Ministry of Public administration and Management.
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
independence square,
colombo 07,
30th March, 2017.
04–445