

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1044
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1026 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"442 – 2025 cqks ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'06'20
No. 2,442 –  FRIDAY, JUNE, 20, 2025
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th July 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon 27th June 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 S. D. Pandikorala,
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
09th June, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1023 - B 082692 - (06/2024)
N. B.–   Parts II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2441 of 13.06.2025 were not published.


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1024
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1025
Rules  and   Instructions   for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1026
Post - Vacant
SRI  LANKA  POLICE
Post of Sub Inspector of Police (Male)
APPLICATIONS  are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the Post of Probationary Sub Inspector of Police of Sri 
Lanka Police. 
2.  Applications duly prepared according to the specimen application form given below should be forwarded the address 
Director/Recruitment, Police Recruitment Division, No. 375, 1st Floor, Sri Sambuddathva Jayanthi Mawatha, Colombo 
– 06. The post you are applying for should be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope in which your application 
is enclosed and it should be forwarded by registered post to reach the above address on or before 21.07.2025 Late 
applications will not be entertained. Applications will not be issued by Sri Lanka Police.
 Interviews will be conducted in the order in which applications are received.
 This gazette shall cease to be in force once the recruitments are made on priority basis based on the existing vacancies 
in the post.
3. Salary scale (Monthly ):
  
Rs. 55,410 – 7 x670 – 2x890 – 25x1,190 – Rs. 91,630.00
This salary scale is calculated according to Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025.
Further, these Officers are entitled to the allowances granted under Police orders CRTM 260 and RTM 385 dated 
15.12.2022. In addition to the salary scale mentioned above they will be entitled to the following allowances on a 
monthly basis. 
 (a) Cost of living allowance Rs.  17,800.00
 (b) Special allowance paid as per G.P.C. 10/2025
             (Rs. 1,250.00 with 22% of basic salary)  
 (c) Arduous duty allowance Rs.    2,000.00
 (d) Uniform Cleaning Allowance Rs.       250.00
 (e) Food and Loading allowance Rs.  31,800.00
 (f) Other allowances according to the service 
 In addition to these allowances, the following will also be provided :
 (a) Transport facility;
 (b) Medical Welfare facilities for Officers (Financial support can be obtained even for getting medical treatment 
abroad);
 (c)  Uniforms;
 (d)  Opportunity for the eligible officers to read for Degrees or follow Diploma Courses offered by the State 
Universities, National Police Academy & Sri Lanka Higher Education Institutions;
 (e)  Facilities to enhance one’s sports skills and inborn talents;
 (f)  Fund will be offered as rewards by the police reward fund committee for travelling expense allowances, 
hardest allowance and conspicuous duties.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1027
4. Basic qualifications required :
       4.1 Age limit  
The applicant must be aged between 18-26 years at the time of the closing date of the application as per the Gazette 
notification. However, Police officers currently serving in the Sri Lanka Police, up to the age of 28 years at the 
closing date of applications, are eligible to apply.
 4.2  Educational qualifications
The applicant should have passed 06 subjects in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in one sitting with 04 credit passes 
including Mathematics and Medium Language 
and
Should have passed 03 subjects (excluding Common General Test) in the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination in one sitting. 
Note:    01.	 According	 to	the	subject	classification	of	the	Department	of	Examinations,	two	Science	Subjects	
bearing	No.	41	and	44	are	considered	as	a	single	subject	and	two	Mathematics	Subjects	bearing	No.	42	
and	45	are	also	considered	as	a	single	subject	when	determining	the	number	of	subjects	passed	at	the	
examination.
 02.	 Despite	 having	passed	the	practical	test	of	the	Technological	Studies			at	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	examination,	
failing	in	the	written	test	of	the	same	subject	is	considered	as	having	failed	the	said	subject.	
03.	 Since	 the	subjects,	Optional	Tamil,	English	and	Sinhala	are	not	included	in	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	subject	
stream,	having	passed	those	subjects	is	not	considered	as	one	of	the	subjects	passed	at	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
examination.	
       4.3  Physical requirements:
	 •	 Height should be 05 Feet and 06 inches or above (167.64  cm) 
	• 	 Chest should be at least 32 inches (during expiration) (81.28 cm) 
 4.3.1 All the applicants should be physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post and to work 
anywhere within Sri Lanka. 
 4:3:2  Vision Requirements
  Minimum vision of one eye, without wearing spectacles or contact lenses, should not be less than 6/12. 
If the vision of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other eye should be 6/18.  
 4:3:3  Should not have undergone artificial body modifications which might be deemed unsuitable for the 
honour of police service or may cause obstruction in the execution of duty.
 4:4  Other Qualifications
 4:4:1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
 4:4:2  The applicant should not possess a tarnished character,
 4:4:3  The applicant should be a bachelor (divorcees, widows, and single parents are not qualified to apply),
 4:4:4  Should be prepared to work anywhere in the Island, 
 4:4:5  Qualifications mentioned in 4:1 and 4:2, which are necessary for recruitment for the post, are expected to 
have been fully acquired by the date mentioned in the notice inviting applications and the qualifications 
in 4:4 are expected to remain the same even on the date of recruitment. 
 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1028
5.   Preliminary Test
 Only the applicants who meet the basic qualifications and age requirements out of those who have furnished the 
applications will be called for the preliminary test. During the test, qualifications mentioned in paragraph 4:1, 4:2 and 
4:3 above (except 4:3:1 and 4:3:2) will be checked.
 The applicants who face the preliminary test should face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers appointed 
by the Inspector General of Police. The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified that the applicant is fit to 
face the endurance test should be furnished at the time, along with the recommendation of a doctor registered with Sri 
Lanka Medical Council.
       
Activity Time Marks
Long Distance Running 1000 
meters
Below 03 minutes 30
Between 03 to 04 minutes 20
Between 04 to 05 minutes 10
Chin-ups (05 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
03 marks for each rep
Push-ups (15 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
01 mark for each rep
Sit-ups (15 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
01 mark for each rep
Squat Thrusts (15 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
01 mark for each rep
Kim’s Game (Memory Test) 30 seconds to observe items, 
30 seconds to memorize, 120 
seconds to write
A maximum of 10 marks with 
01 mark for each item
Note:	 Applicants	 who	fail	to	run	a	distance	of	1000	meters	within	05	minutes	are	considered	having	failed	the	
fitness	test.	
6.   Written Examination :
The applicants who get through the preliminary test will be called for the written examination. The written examination 
will be held under the following subjects.
             Subjects Maximum 
marks
Time Pass mark
01. Comprehension and 
Language proficiency  
40 45 min
40%02. General knowledge and 
Intelligence test
60 01 hour
7. Structured Interview :
Only the applicants who get through the preliminary test and written examination will be directed to the structured 
interview. The Structured Interview Board will be appointed by the Inspector General of Police.
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum 
Mark
Cut-Off Mark for 
Selection
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 20
Not applicable02.  Language proficiency 10
03.  Computer literacy / Other 10

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1029
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum 
Mark
Cut-Off Mark for 
Selection
04. Sports skills 20
05. Leadership/community services 20
06. Evaluation of the interview board 20
Total 100
8. Method of Recruitment
The aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written Examination and Structured Interview is listed 
in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which is 125% of the number of 
vacancies, will be called for the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants out of those will be 
recruited for the post based on the number of available vacancies.
Note:-		 Deviating	from	the	above	procedural	measures,	the	applicants	who	possess	exceptional	sports	skills	on	
national	or	international	level	or	have	displayed	special	talents	or	proficiency	in	a	different	field	may	
be	recruited	at	the	discretion	of	the	appointing	authority,	disregarding	the	requirements,	with	regard	to	
height	and	chest	if	such	applicants,	meet	other	qualifications.
9.   Background Check
 9.1 A background check will be conducted to look into any adverse reports on the applicants based on the number of 
available vacancies and the arrangements of the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the written 
Examination and Structured Interview listed in descending order.
 
 9.2 With the intention of getting the applicant’s character exposed, background checks will also be carried out on the 
applicant, on his next of kin and on his close companions and applicants with negative background check reports 
will not be recruited. 
 
 9.3  Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, after 
the recruitment, that false information had been provided, the appointment will be cancelled or the service will be 
terminated at any time.
Note :-  As per the particulars mentioned in Section 59 of the Procedural Rules and the Section 7:2:4:5:2 
of the currently approved schemed of recruitment and the particulars mentioned in IG Circular  
No. 2014/2007, the applicant is bound to agree to the decision that his appointment will be cancelled, 
if it is found that the applicant had joined Police Service by providing false information.
10. Medical Test
 Only the applicants without negative background reports will be called for the Medical Test. The selected applicants 
should pass the test conducted by the Medical Board headed by the Chief Medical Officer of Police Hospital. During 
this test, the applicants will be subjected to a medical test to check whether they are physically and mentally fit to 
perform police duties. An applicant can take the medical test only once. the medical test will be conducted under Health 
169 form. Applicants who get disqualified from the medical test may not submit appeals.
11.  Training
 11.1  Based on the vacancies available, only the applicants who have pass the above tests will be called for training on 
a date specified by the Inspector General of Police. The basic training will be provided at the Sri Lanka Police 
College. Afterwards, an extensive training will be provided in the respective fields until the end of probationary 
period.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1030
 11.2  Appointing authority will decide whether to cancel the appointment or to extend the basic training period of the 
officers who do not successfully complete the basic training.
12. Nature of Post
Permanent and pensionable
(Subject to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension scheme)
13. Service Conditions
 13.1  Selected applicants should serve a probationary period of three (03) years under the Section 13.3
 13.2  The selected applicants shall act in conformity with any orders already made or may hereafter be made to implement 
the Official Language Policy. 
 13.3  They Should also abide by the Circulars of Public Service Commission, National Police Commission, provisions 
of Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Public Administration Circulars, Treasury circulars, Sri Lanka 
Police Orders, Police Gazette Notifications, I.G. Circulars, provisions of police code of instructions and conditions 
of the appointment letter.
 13.4  The probationary period shall be effective for the first 03 years from the date of appointment and the officers are 
not permitted to get married during that period. One should enter into marriage only as per the instructions given 
in I.G. Circulars. If this regulation is violated, the appointment shall stand cancelled. 
 13.5  Those who are recruited should serve compulsory service period of 5 years after completion of training. In 
the event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his compulsory service period, 
they should sign an agreement giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses on his training and other 
expenses including uniforms at the time of handing over the resignation letter. Measures will be taken regarding 
the resignation, as per the provisions of Establishments Code/ Procedural Rules, National Police Commission and 
Public Service Commission and Public Service Commission.
 
 13.6  When each and every officer of direct recruitment is initially appointed to the police service, they should mention 
particulars of all their assets, which each officer either has absolute ownership of or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General Form bearing No. 261 (revised) and provide to inspector General of 
Police, to be included in the personal file of the relevant officer. 
  Immediately after the marriage, the officer should submit having entered the above particulars in relation to his 
spouse as well. 
  If a new right or asset as described above is acquired, a complete description of the said right or asset should be 
given in written to the Inspector General of Police to be included in the personal files of the relevant officer.
 13.7 Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with the 
constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, as soon as they start the training at Sri Lanka Police 
College.
  
14.  Confirmation in service
  
Officers of direct recruitment shall maintain a monthly progress file for 33 months during the 03-years probationary 
period. After the completion of a probationary period of 03 years, such officers will be confirmed in service by the 
appointing authority. If an officer fails to complete the progress file within the probationary period, the officer will be 
confirmed in service by the appointing authority after deciding the seniority as per the procedural rules, based on the 
additional time spent to complete the progress file. 

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1031
Unless the appointing authority decides to confirm the service or to extend the probationary period, the appointment of 
officers, who could not complete the progress file within a period of additional 03 years, will be terminated
15 Efficiency Bars:
The implementation of the efficiency bar should be as follows :
The type of  Efficiency 
Bar
Prescribed period for passing the 
Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency Bar 
Written Examination/ Professional 
Examination/ Certificate Course/ 
Other
1st Efficiency 
Bar Examination 
(Examination for 
Confirmation of Service)
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of  Sub- 
Inspector of Police 
Written, Practical, and Oral
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of  
Inspector of Police
Successful completion of the 
orientation training
3rd Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years after 
getting appointed to the post of  Chief 
Inspector of Police 
Successful completion of the 
orientation training
16. Language Proficiency:
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Other Official Language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public Administration 
Circular No. 18/2020 and consequent circulars
Official Language Officers recruited through a medium that is not an official language should obtain 
the proficiency for the relevant official language within the probationary period.
17. General conditions relevant to the appointment to posts of the public service that have been published in the beginning 
of Section (IIA) of part I of this Gazette Notification will be applicable. 
18. Applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (Original documents 
should not be submitted) 
(a) Birth Certificate;
(b) A photocopy of the National Identity Card;
(c) Certificates to verify educational qualifications.
19. (a)  Applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant Heads of 
Institutions. Those applications should accompany a certification to the fact that the applicant can be released if 
selected.
 (b) Applications should be completed in applicant’s own handwriting on A4-size papers and should be sent along with 
the relevant copies of the certificates to the  address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application 
should not be handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.
20. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notification in any way and applications forwarded using 
formats deviating from the one furnished herewith, will be rejected. Replies will not be sent to such applicants in that 
regard.
Note:-	 Travelling	or	any	other	expenses	will	not	be	paid	by	the	Sri	Lanka	Police	to	the	applicants	who	are	called	
for	interviews	and	examinations.
 Priyantha Weerasooriya,
 Acting Inspector General of Police.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1032
A colour photo of 2" X 2 1/2 Should 
be attached
SRI LANKA POLICE
Post of  Probationary Sub-Inspector of Police
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
(1) (I) (a) Name in full  (Sinhala) :   …………………………………………………………………………………
   (Should be exactly as mentioned in the Birth Certificate)
  (b) Name with initials (Sinhala) :   …………………………………………………………………………………
 (II) (a) Name in Full  (English block letters)
 
 (b) Name with Initials (English block letters) :
(2) National Identity Card Number :……………………………………………… (A copy of NIC should be attached)
(3) Father’s full name :……………………………………………………………………………………………………
(4) Place of birth of the applicant : …………………………………………………………………………………………
 Divisional Secretariat of the relevant birth place :…………………………Province…………………………………
(5) (I) Present Address (Sinhala) :…………………………………………………………………………………………
      (a) Present Address (English block letters)
 
        (b)  Relevant Police Station of present address :…………………………………………………………………
 (II)   Permanent Address (Sinhala) :……………………………………..……………………………………………
        (a) Permanent Address (English block letters)
 
 
        (b) Relevant Police Station of permanent address :………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1033
 (c) Grama Niladhari Division of permanent address :……………………………………………………………
 (d) Divisional Secretariat :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 (e) Postal Address : …………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (f) Telephone No : ………………………………… Home :…………………………Mobile :……………………
(g) E-mail Address :……………………………………………  Whats App No. :…………………………………
6) Ethnicity : …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
7) Date of Birth …………(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached.)
 Age ………………………………………………(As at the closing date of application as per Gazette notification)
 Years :……………………………… Months :…………………………………Days :……………………………
8) Height: -  ……………… Feet ………………Inches …………… (b) Chest: - Inches …………………………  
Height: -  Centimeters ……………………                                            Chest: - Centimeters  …………………
9) Educational Qualifications – (Should mention the examinations passed and the copies of the relevant certificates 
should be attached)
         (a)  G.C.E. (O/L) Examination results :
      Year :……………………………..
      Index No. :………………………..
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
        (b)  G.C.E. (A/L) Examination results :
      Year :……………………………..
      Index No. :………………………..
Stream Subjects Grade
Z-score 
  (c)  Degrees completed/ Undergoing -  
      
University Whether you have completed/ are currently studying for a degree

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1034
10)   State preferred language medium, if qualified for the written exam :………………………
11) Marital Status :………………………
12)  Present Employment : ………………………
13)   Are you currently serving in Sri Lanka Police ? ……………………………………
 If yes, Post and Rank No. :………………………………………………………….
 Place of work :……………………………….      Division :………………………………
14) Have you ever served in Sri Lanka Police? : ……………………………………………………………………
 If yes, Post and Rank No. :.………………………………………………………………………………………
 Indicate the reasons for you to resign from the post :……………………………………………………
15) (a)   Are you currently serving in an Armed Force / V olunteer Armed Force ? 
   If yes, Post and Rank No. :…………………………………
   (Application should be  forwarded through the relevant Head.) 
  (b) Have you ever served in Armed Forces / V olunteer Force ? …………………………………………………
  If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of legal discharge. 
  If you have deserted an armed service or if you have been punished, please provide details. 
16) Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any offence?
  
 Have you ever been accused of an offence (criminal offence/disgraceful offence/corruption) or summoned or 
punished by a court or been subjected to fine as a punishment imposed by a court? ………………  (if yes, please 
provide the details).
 
17) Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any Offence (criminal offence/
disgraceful offence/corruption)? or been accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a court or been subjected 
to fine as a punishment imposed by court? ……………………………………………(If yes, please provide the 
details) ,
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am 
also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, my appointment shall stand 
cancelled and service be terminated at any time, despite being appointed to the service.
 
………………………, ………………………………,
 Date.  Signature of Applicant.
18.    Certificate of the Head of the Institution: (Only if relevant)
I, hereby declare that Mr.……………………………… forwarding this application is serving in the Department /
Corporation/Board of ………………………………… and that he can be released for the new post if he is selected 
for this post.
   ………………………………………,
Signature and Official Stamp of the
Head of the Institution.
 Designation :- ……………………………
 Date:- ………………………………
06-112/1

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1035
SRI  LANKA  POLICE
Post of Police Constable (Male)
APPLICATIONS  are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the Post of Probationary Police Constable of Sri Lanka 
Police, 
02.  Applications duly prepared according to the specimen application form given below should be forwarded to the address, 
Director/ Recruitment, Police Recruitment Division, No. 375. First Floor, Sri Sambuddhathva Jayanthi Mawatha, 
Colombo 06. The post you are applying for should be mentioned on the top-left corner of the envelope in which 
your application is enclosed and it should be forwarded by registered post to reach the above address on or before 
21.07.2025. Late applications will not be entertained. Applications will not be issued by Sri Lanka Police. 
 Interviews will be conducted in the order in which applications are received.
 This gazette sgall cease to be in force once the recruitments are made on priority basis based on the existing vacancies 
in the post.
03. Salary Scale - (Monthly)
Rs. 49,550 – 7 x 540 – 670 x 27 – Rs. 71,420.00
This salary scale is calculated according to Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025.
Further, these officers are entitled to the allowances granted under the Police orders CRTM 260 and RTM 385 dated 
15.12.2022. In addition to the salary scale mentioned above they will be entitled to the following allowances on a 
monthly basis. 
 (a)  Cost of living Allowance   Rs. 17,800.00
 (b)  Special allowance paid as per G.P.C. 10/2025
  (Rs. 1,250.00 with 22% of basic salary)   
 (c)  Arduous Duty Allowance  Rs. 2,000. 00
 (d)  Uniform Cleaning Allowance  Rs. 250.00
 (e)  Food and Lodging Allowance   Rs. 28,800.00  
 (f) Other allowances according to the service
  In addition to these allowances, the following will also be provided :-
 (a) Transport facility;
 (b) Medical welfare facilities for officers (Financial support can be obtained even for getting medical treatment 
abroad);
 (c) Uniforms;
 (d) Opportunities for the eligible officers to read for Degrees or follow Diploma Courses offered by the State 
Universities, National Police Academy & Sri Lanka Higher Education Institutions.;  
 (e) Facilities to enhance one’s sports skills and inborn talents;
 (f) Fund will be offered as rewards by the police reward fund committee for travelling expense allowances, 
hardest allowance and conspicuous duties.
04.  Basic Qualifications Required
 4:1 Age Limit:
  The applicant must be aged between 18 – 25 years at the time of the closing date of the application as per the 
Gazette notification. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1036
 4:2 Educational Qualifications:
   The applicant should have passed 06 subjects with 04 credit passes including a credit pass for the medium language 
at G.C.E. (O/L) examination at one and the same sitting and should have passed the subject, Mathematics in not 
more than two sittings.
  Note:	 01.	 According	 to	the	subject	classification	of	the	Department	of	Examinations,	two	Science	
Subjects	bearing	No.	41	and	44	are	considered	as	a	single	subject	and	two	Mathematics	
Subjects	bearing	No.	42	and	45	are	also	considered	as	a	single	subject	when	determining	the	
number	of	subjects	passed	at	the	examination.
	 	 	 	 02.	 Despite	 having	passed	the	practical	test	of	the	Technological	Studies	at	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
examination,	failing	in	the	written	test	of	the	same	subject	is	considered	as	having	failed	the	
said subject. 
	 	 	 	 03.	 Since	 the	subjects,	Optional	Tamil,	English	and	Sinhala	are	not	included	in	G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	
subject	stream,	having	passed	those	subjects	is	not	considered	as	one	of	the	subjects	passed	at	
G.	C.	E.	(O/L)	examination.	
 4:3 Physical Requirements
•	 Height should be 05 feet and 04 inches or above (162.5  cm) 
•	 Chest should be at least 30 inches (during expiration) (76 cm)
 4:3:1  All the applicants should be physically and mentally fit to discharge the duties of the post and to work 
anywhere within Sri Lanka.
 4:3:2  Vision Requirements
  Minimum vision of one eye, without wearing spectacles or contact lenses, should not be less than 6/12. 
If the vision of one eye is 6/6, the vision of the other eye should be 6/18.  
 4:3:3  Should not have undergone artificial body modifications which might be deemed unsuitable for the 
honour of police service and may cause obstruction in the execution of duty.
 4:4  Other Qualifications
 4:4:1 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 4:4:2 The applicant should not possess a tarnished character. 
 4:4:3 The applicant should be a bachelor (divorcees, widows, and single parents are not qualified to apply).
 4:4:4 Should be prepared to work anywhere in the country. 
 4:4:5 Qualifications mentioned in 4:1 to 4:2, which are necessary for recruitment for the post, are expected to 
have been fully acquired by the date mentioned in the notice inviting applications and qualifications in 
4:4 are expected to remain the same even on the date of recruitment. 
05.    Preliminary Test
Only the applicants who meet the basic qualifications and age requirements out of those who have furnished the 
applications will be called for the preliminary test. During the test, qualifications mentioned in paragraph 4:1,4:2 and 
4:3 above (except 4:3:1 and 4:3:2) will be checked. 

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1037
The applicants who face the preliminary test should face the endurance test conducted by a board of officers 
appointed by the Inspector General of Police. The form forwarded with the call letter to get it verified that the applicant 
is fit to face the endurance test should be furnished at the time, along with the recommendation of a doctor registered 
with Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Activity Time Marks
Long Distance Running 1000 
meters
Below 03 minutes 30
Between 03 to 04 minutes 20
Between 04 to 05 minutes 10
Chin-ups (05 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
03 marks for each rep
Push-ups (15 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
Sit-ups (15 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
Squat Thrusts (15 reps) 01 minute A maximum of 15 marks with 
01 marks for each rep
Kim’s Game (Memory Test) 30 seconds to observe items, 
30 seconds to memorize, 120 
seconds to write
A maximum of 10 marks with 
01 marks for each item
Note:	 Applicants	 who	fail	to	run	a	distance	of	1000	meters	within	05	minutes	are	considered	having	failed	the	
fitness	test.	
06.    Written Examination
The applicants who get through the preliminary interview will be called for the written examination. The written 
examination will be held under the following subjects.
             Subjects Maximum marks Qualified marks 
01. Comprehension and 
language proficiency  
50
40%02. General knowledge and 
Inteligence test
50
07.   Structured Interview
Only the applicants who get through the preliminary interview and written examination will be directed to the structured 
interview. The Structured Interview Board will be appointed by the Inspector General of Police. 
Main headings under which marks are given Maximum Mark Cut-Off Mark for 
Selection
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 15
Not applicable
02. Professional Qualifications 15
03. Language proficiency 10
04. Sports skills 20
05. Leadership/community services 20
06. Evaluation of the interview board 20
Total 100                             

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1038
08.   Method of Recruitment
The aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written Examination and Structured Interview is listed 
in descending order. Based on the order of marks obtained, a number of applicants, which is 125% of the number of 
vacancies, will be called for the Background Check and Medical Test and the qualified applicants out of those will be 
recruited for the post based on the number of available vacancies.
Note	:-		 Deviating	 from	the	above	procedural	measures,	the	applicants	who	possess	exceptional	sports	skills	on	
national	or	international	level	or	have	displayed	special	talents	or	proficiency	in	a	different	field	may	
be	recruited	at	the	discretion	of	the	appointing	authority,	disregarding	the	recruitment	with	regard	
height	and	chest	requirement,	if	such	applicants	meet	other	qualifications.
09.   Background Check
 9.1  A background check will be conducted to check any adverse reports on the applicants based on the number of 
available vacancies and the arrangement of the aggregate of the marks obtained by each applicant for the Written 
Examination and Structured Interview listed in descending order. 
 9.2  With the intention of getting the applicant’s character exposed, background checks will also be carried out on the 
applicant, on his next of kin and on his close companions and applicants with negative background check reports 
will not be recruited.  
 9.3 Providing false information during recruitment by applicants will result in disqualification. If it is revealed, after 
the recruitment, that false information had been provided, the appointment will be cancelled or the service will 
be terminated at any time.
Note :-   As per the particulars mentioned in Section 59 of the Procedural Rules and the Section 7:2:4:5:2 
of the currently approved scheme of recruitment and the particulars mentioned in IG Circular No. 
2014/2007, the applicant is bound to agree to the decision that his appointment will be cancelled, if 
it is found that the applicant had joined police Service by providing false information.
10. Medical Test
Only the applicants without negative background reports will be called for the Medical Test. The selected applicants 
should pass the test conducted by the Medical Board headed by the Chief Medical Officer of Police Hospital. During 
this test, the applicants will be subjected to a medical test to check whether they are physically and mentally fit to 
perform police duties. An applicant can take the medical test only once. The medical test will be conducted under 
Health 169 form. Applicants who get disqualified from the medical test may not submit appeals.
11.  Training
 11.1  Based on the vacancies available, only the applicants who have passed the above tests will be called for training on 
a date specified by the Inspector General of Police. The basic training will be provided at Sri Lanka Police College. 
Afterwards, an extensive training will be provided in the respective fields until the end of probationary period.
 11.2  Appointing authority will decide whether to cancel the appointment or to extend the basic training period of the 
officers who do not successfully complete the basic training.
12. Nature of Post
Permanent and pensionable
(Subject to the policy decisions made by the governing on the pension scheme)
 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1039
13. Service Conditions
 13.1  Selected applicants should serve a probationary period of three (03) years under the Section 13.3.
 13.2  The selected applicants shall act in conformity with any orders already made or may hereafter be made to implement 
the Official Language Policy. 
 13.3 They should also abide by the Circulars of Public Service Commission, National Police Commission, Provisions of 
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Public Administration Circulars, Treasury Circulars, Sri Lanka Police 
Orders, Police Gazette Notification, I.G Circulars, provisions of police code of instructions and conditions of the 
appointment letter.
 13.4  The probation period shall be effective for the first 03 years from the date of appointment and the officers are not 
permitted to get married during the period. One should enter into marriage only as per the instructions given in I.G. 
Circulars. If this regulation is violated, the appointment shall stand cancelled. 
 13.5 Those who are recruited should serve a compulsory service period of 5 years after completion of training. In the 
event of an officer intends to resign from the service before completion of his compulsory service period, they 
should sign an agreement giving their consent to pay all the stipulated expenses on his training and other expenses 
including their consent to pay all stipulated expenses on his training and other expenses including uniforms at the 
time of handing over the resignation letter. Measures will be taken regarding the resignation, as per the provisions 
of Establishments Code/ Procedural Rules, National Police Commission and Public Service Commission.
 
 13.6  When each and every officer of direct recruitment is initially appointed to the police service, they should mention 
particulars of all their assets, which each officer either has absolute ownership of or retains title to or has been 
transferred to and all the liabilities in General Form bearing No. 261 (revised) and provide to inspector General of 
Police, to be included in the personal file of the relevant officer.
  Immediately after marriage, the officer should submit having entered the above particulars in relation to his spouse 
as well. 
  If a new right or asset as described above is acquired, a complete description of the said right or asset should be 
given in writing to the Inspector General of Police to be included in the personal file of the relevant officer.
 13.7  Probationary Police Constables should subscribe an affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply with the 
constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, as soon as they start the training at Sri Lanka Police 
College.
  
14.  Confirmation in Service
  
Officer of direct recruitment shall maintain a monthly progress file for 33 months during the 03-year probationary 
period. After the completion of a probationary period of 03 years, such officers will be confirmed in service by the 
appointing authority. If an officer fails to meet the requirements of the First Efficiency Bar within the probationary 
period, the officer will be confirmed in service after deciding the seniority based on the additional time spent to pass 
the First Efficiency Bar.
Unless the appointing authority decides to confirm the service or to extend the probationary period, the appointment 
of officers, who could not meet the requirement of the first Efficiency Bar within a period of additional 03 years, will 
be terminated.
15. Efficiency Bars:
The implementation of the efficiency bar should be as follows :-

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1040
The type of  Efficiency 
Bar
Prescribed period for passing 
the Efficiency Bar
Nature of the Efficiency Bar 
Written Examination/ Professional 
Examination/ Certificate Course/ 
Other
1 st  Efficiency 
Bar Examination 
(Examination for 
Confirmation of Service)
Before completion of 03 years 
after getting appointed to the 
post of  Police Constable
Written, Practical and Oral
2nd  Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years 
after getting appointed to the 
post of  Police Sergeant
Successful completion of the 
orientation training
3 rd Efficiency Bar 
Examination
Before completion of 03 years 
after getting appointed to the 
post of  Police Sergeant Major
Successful completion of the 
orientation training
16. Language Proficiency:
Language Expected Level of Proficiency
Other Official Language Should obtain the relevant level of proficiency as per the Public 
Administration Circular No. 18/2020 and consequent circulars.
Official Language Officers recruited through a medium that is not an official language 
should obtain the proficiency for the relevant official language within 
the probationary period.
17. General conditions relevant to the appointment to posts of the public service that have been published in the beginning 
of Section (IIA) of Part I of this gazette notification will be applicable. 
18. Applicants should send the copies of the following documents attached to their applications. (Original documents 
should not be submitted) 
(a) Birth Certificate;
(b) A photocopy of the National Identity Card;
(c) Certificates to Verify Educational Qualifications;
19. (a)  Applicants who are already in the public service should forward their applications through the relevant Heads of 
Institutions. Those applications   should accompany a certification ito the fact that the applicant can be released if 
selected.
 (b) Applications should be completed in applicant’s own handwriting on A4 size papers and should be sent along with 
the relevant copies of the certificates to the  address mentioned in the above paragraph 02, and the application 
should not be handed over personally to any officer under any circumstances.
20. Applications that do not conform to the requirements of this notification in any way and applications forwarded using 
formats deviating from the one furnished herewith, will be rejected. Replies will not be sent to such applicants in that 
regard.
Note:-	 Travelling	or	any	other	expenses	will	not	be	paid	by	the	Sri	Lanka	Police	to	the	applicants	who	are	
called	for	interviews	and	examinations.
 Priyantha Weerasooriya,
 Acting Inspector General of Police.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1041
A colour photo of 2" X 2 1/2  Size 
Should be attached
SRI  LANKA  POLICE
Post of  Probationary Police Constable
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM 
1) (I) (a) Name in full  (Sinhala) :   …………………………………………………………………………………
   (Should be exactly as mentioned in the Birth Certificate)
  (b) Name with initials (Sinhala) :   …………………………………………………………………………………
 (II) (a) Name in Full  (English block letters) :
 
 (b) Name with Initials (English block letters) :………………………………………………………………………
2) National Identity Card Number :……………………………………………… (A copy of NIC should be attached)
3) Father’s full Name :……………………………………………………………………………………………………
4) Place of Birth of the Applicant :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 Divisional Secretariat of the relevant birth place :…………………………Province :…………………………………
5) (I) Present Address (Sinhala) :…………………………………………………………………………………………
      (a) Present Address (English block letters)
 
        (b)  Relevant Police Station of present address :…………………………………………………………………
 (II)   Permanent Address (Sinhala) :……………………………………..……………………………………………
        (a) Permanent Address (English block letters) :
 
 
        (b) Relevant Police Station of permanent address :………………………………………………………………

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1042
 (c) Grama Niladhari Division of permanent address :……………………………………………………………
 (d) Divisional Secretariat :…………………………………………………………………………………………
 (e) Postal Address : …………………………………………………………………………………………………
 (f) Telephone No. : ………………………………… Home :…………………………Mobile :……………………
(g) E-mail Address :……………………………………………  Whats App No. :…………………………………
6) Ethnicity : …………………………………………………………………………………………………………
7) Date of Birth : …………(A copy of the birth certificate should be attached.)
 Age :………………………………………………(As at the closing date of application as per Gazette notification)
 Years :……………………………… Months :…………………………………Days :……………………………
8) Height: - Feet : ………………………………Inches :……………… Chest: - Inches …………………………  
 Centimeters : ……………………                                                    Centimeters  …………………
9) Educational Qualification – (Should mention the examinations passed and the copies of the relevant certificates 
should be attached)
         (a)  G.C.E. (O/L) Examination :
      Year :……………………………..
      Index No. :………………………..
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
        (b)  G.C.E. (A/L) Examination  :
      Year :……………………………..
      Index No. :………………………..
Subject Grade
Z-score 
  (c)  Degrees completed/ Undergoing -  
      
Degree University Whether you have completed/ are currently studying for a degree

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1043
10)   State preferred language medium, if qualified for the written exam :………………………
11) Marital Status :………………………
12)  Present Employment : ………………………
13) Have you ever served in Sri Lanka Police? : ……………………………………………………………………
 If yes, Post and Rank No. :.………………………………………………………………………………………
 Indicate the reasons for you to resign from the post :……………………………………………………
14) (a)   Are you currently serving in an Armed Force / V olunteer Armed Force ? 
   If yes, Post and Rank No. :…………………………………
   (Application should be  forwarded through the relevant Head.) 
  (b) Have you ever served in Armed Forces / V olunteer Armed Force ? …………………………………………………
  If yes, please attach a copy of the certificate of legal discharge. 
  If you have deserted an armed service or if you have been punished, please provide details. 
15) Have you ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any offence?
  
 Have you ever been accused of an offence (criminal offence/disgraceful offence/corruption) or summoned or 
punished by a court or been subjected to fine as a punishment imposed by a court? ………………  (if yes, please 
provide the details).
 
16) Has any relative of yours ever been arrested on suspicion or in connection with any Offence (criminal offence/
disgraceful offence/corruption)? or been accused of an offence or summoned or punished by a court or been 
subjected to fine as a punishment imposed by a court? ……………………………………………(If yes, please 
provide the details) .
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am 
also aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false or incorrect, my appointment shall stand 
cancelled and service be terminated at any time, despite being appointed to the service.
 
………………………, ………………………………,
 Date.  Signature of Applicant.
17.    Certificate of the Head of the Institution: (Only if relevant)
I, hereby declare that Mr.……………………………… forwarding this application is serving in the Department /
Corporation/Board of ………………………………… and that he can be released for the new post if he is selected 
for this post.
   ………………………………………,
Signature and Official Stamp of the
Head of the Institution.
 Designation :- ……………………………
 Date:- ………………………………
06-112/2

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1044
Amendment
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, LIVESTOCK, LAND AND IRRIGATION
Department of Animal Production & Health
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA  ANIMAL PRODUCTION 
AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2025
IT is hereby amended the sentence "The above examination fees should be paid to any post office/ sub post office situated 
in the island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-99-00 of the Director General of Animal Production and Health. The 
receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application" given under para No. 13 replacing with 
"The above examination fee should be paid to the Shroff of the Department in favour of the Director General of 
Animal Production and Health to be credited to the Department head No. 2003-99-00" or to any branch of the People's Bank 
in the Island to be credited to account No. 057100179027275 in the name of the Director General of the Dept. of Animal 
Production and Health and affix the receipt of it to the edge of the relevant cage in the application" and 
the closing date with "30 th  June 2025"
instead for "20 th  June 2025" for receiving applications stated in para 08 in part I(IIa) in the notification called for 
applications for the first efficiency bar examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service - 
2025 which was published in the gazette No. 2,439 and dated 30.05.2025 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
02. No changes have been made the other instructions given in the said notification.
 Dr. K. A. C. H. A. Kothalawala,
 Director General of Animal Production and Health.
11.06.2025.
06-108/1
_________________________________
Amendment
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, LIVESTOCK, LAND AND IRRIGATION
Department of Animal Production & Health
SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION 
AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2025
IT is hereby amended the sentence "The above examination fees should be paid to any post office/ sub post office situated 
in the island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-99-00 of the Director General of Animal Production and Health. The 
receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application" given under para No. 13  replacing with 
"The above examination fee should be paid to the Shroff of the Department of favour of the Director General of 
Animal Production and Health to be credited to the Department head No. 2003-99-00" or to any branch of the People's Bank 
in the Island to be credited to Account No. 057100179027275 in the name of the Director General of the Dept. of Animal 
Production and Health and affix the receipt of it to the edge of the relevant cage in the application" and 
the closing date with "30 th  June 2025"
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1045
instead for "20 th  June 2025" for receiving applications stated in para 08 in part I(IIa) in the notification called for 
stated  applications for the Second efficiency bar examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health 
Service - 2025 which was published in the Gazette No. 2,439 and dated 30.05.2025 of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka.
02. No changes have been made the other instructions given in the said notification.
 Dr. K. A. C. H. A. Kothalawala,
 Director General of Animal Production and Health.
11.06.2025.
06-108/2
_________________________________
Amendment
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, LIVESTOCK, LAND AND IRRIGATION
Department of Animal Production and Health
THIRD EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR THE OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA ANIMAL PRODUCTION 
AND HEALTH SERVICE - 2025
IT is hereby amended the sentence "The above examination fees should be paid to any post office/ sub post office situated 
in the island to be credited to Revenue Head No. 2003-99-00 of the Director General of Animal Production and Health. The 
receipt of it should be affixed to the edge of the relevant cage in the application" given under para No. 13 replacing with, 
"The above examination fee should be paid to the Shroff of the Department in favour in the Director General of 
Animal Production and Health to be credited to the Department head No. 2003-99-00" or to any branch of the People's Bank 
in the Island to be credited to account No. 057100179027275 in the name of the Director General of the Dept. of Animal 
Production and Health and affix the receipt of it to the edge of the relevant cage in the application" and the closing date with 
"30th June 2025"
instead for "20 th  June 2025" for receiving applications stated in para 08 in part I(IIa) in the notification called for 
applications for the third efficiency bar examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Animal Production and Health Service - 
2025 which was published in the Gazette No. 2,439 and dated 30.05.2025 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
02. No changes have been made to the other instructions given in the said notification.
 Dr. K. A. C. H. A. Kothalawala,
 Director General of Animal Production and Health.
11.06.2025
06-109

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'06'20
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.06.2025
1046
Amendment
No. 2,431 - Friday, 04 th  of April 2025 - 04.04.2025
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  SECURITY  AND  PARLIAMENTARY  AFFAIRS
Limited Competitive Examination for making Recruitment to Grade II of the Post of Authorized Officer 
of Segment 2 - Field/ Office based Service Category of the Department of Immigration and Emigration - 
2025
BY  virtue of the powers vested in the Controller General of Immigration and Emigration under 12 of the relevant 
Gazette notification, the syllabus of Subject No. 01 in the paragraph which indicate the description of the examination  
mentioned under the written examination of 15.1 in Examination notification of Limited Competitive Examination for 
making Recruitment to Grade II of the post of Authorized Officer of Segment 2 - Field/ Office based Service Category of 
the Department of Immigration and Emigration - 2025 published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka No. 2,431 dated 04 April 2025 is amended as follows.
15. 
01. Comprehension and General Knowledge - Duration 02 hours. Marks 100.
Part 1 - Comprehension
A question paper to determine the ability to understanding a paragraph and summarization of the meaning.
02. It shall be noted that the other provisions of the Gazette Notification shall remain unchanged and in full force and 
effect.
 I. Chaminda Pathiraja,
 Controller General of Immigration and Emigration (Actg.).
Department of Immigration and Emigration,
Suhurupaya,
Battaramulla,
On 18th day of June 2025.
06-179
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.