

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
671
671
wxl 1"651 - 2010 wfm%a,a ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'04'23
No. 1,651 – FRIDAY , APRIL 23, 2010
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 674
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. ... 677
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th April, 2010 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 16th April,
2010.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2010.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,650 of 16.04.2010 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
672
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
673
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Depart. of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
674
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
MATARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st May, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
19th March, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division applications are called be sent
Matara W eligama Post of Registrar (Medical) of Births and District Secretary/Additional
Deaths in Weligama Town Division Registrar General, District
Secretariat, Matara
04-481
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
KANDY  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
675
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st May, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
19th March, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division applications are called be sent
Kandy Medadumbara Post of Registrar of  Births and Deaths in District Secretary/Additional
Udasiyapaththuwa South and Marriages Registrar General, District
(Kandyan/General) in Udadumbara Secretariat, Mannar
04-480
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
676
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 24th May, 2010.
E. M. GUNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
22nd March, 2010.
T
HE SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division applications are called be sent
Badulla Passara Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/ District Secretary/Additional
General) Yatikinda Division and Birth Registrar General, District
and Deaths of Kanahela Division Secretariat, Badulla
04-482
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR  GENERAL’S  DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars - Marriages, Births and Deaths
GALLE  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the schedule h ereto.
02. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
03. Both Male and Female can apply for these posts.
04. Applicants should be not less than 21 years and not more than 65 years of age.
05. Applicants should be married.
06.  Details regarding educational and other Qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
07. Application forms are obtainable from the offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 21st May, 2010.
E. M. G
UNASEKARA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbakaduwa Mawatha,
Baththaramulla.
17th March, 2010.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
677
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Division and Post Address to which
Secretary’s for which applications should
Division applications are called be sent
Galle Karandeniya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional
Benthara Walallawita Koralaya Division Registrar General, District
and Births and Deaths of Uragasmanhandiya Secretariat, Galle
Division
Galle Bope Poddala Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional
Galle Fourgravets Division and Births and Registrar General, District
Deaths of Hapugala Division Secretariat, Galle
Galle Nagoda Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional
Gangabodapattuwa Division and Births Registrar General, District
and Deaths of Yatalamatta Division Secretariat, Galle
Galle Elpitiya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) of District Secretary/Additional
Benthara Walallawita Koralaya Division Registrar General, District
and Births and Deaths of Pitigala Division Secretariat, Galle
Galle Hikkaduwa Post of Additional Marriage (General) District Secretary/Additional
Registrar of Wellabodapattuwa Registrar General, District
(Dodanduwa) Division Secretariat, Galle
Galle Galle Fourgravets Post of Registrar of Birth and Death of District Secretary/Additional
Galle Town Government Hospital Registrar General, District
Mahamodera Division Secretariat, Galle
04-483
MINISTRY  OF  VOCATIONAL  AND  TECHNICAL
TRAINING
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE  OF  ENGINEERING  TECHNOLOGY
(Former Technician Training Institute) - Katunayake
RECRUITMENT OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR NA TIONAL
DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE 2010 BATCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit
Special Apprentices in Engineering for the 2010 batch in respect of
the above course of studies at the Institute of Engineering
Technology (Former Technician Training Institute), Katunayake.
1. Educational Qualifications for entry.— Candidates with
qualifications mentioned below are eligibel to apply.
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
1.1 A Pass at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in
one sitting including a minimum of 03 credit passes for
Mathamatics, Science and Language ;
and
1.2 Passes at the G .C.E. (A/L - New Syllabi) in Combined
Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry in one sitting.
2. Age.— Between 18 and 25 years as at 01.12.2010.
3. Duration and Course Schedule.— This is a four year course,
where 18 month academic instruction programme is sandwiched
with 30 month Industrial Training as given below.
Basic Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 12 months
General Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
General Industrial Training in Industry - 12 months
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 06 months

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
678
Instruction Programmes consist of theoretical Instructions and
course works conducted at Institute of Engineering Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized
Industrial  Establishments.
Before the commencement of the Programme 100 hrs. an intensive
English course will be conducted. Participation of all the selected
apprentices is compulsory for the intensive English course.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows :
A. Civil Engineering Sector :
1. Building and Structural Engineering
2. Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Water and Environmental Engineering
B. Electrical Engineering Sector :
4. Electronics Engineering
5. Electrical Power Engineering
6. Telecommunication Engineering
C. Mechanical Engineering Sector :
7. Mechanical (Automotive) Engineering
8. Mechanical (General) Engineering
9. Marine Engineering
D. Computer Engineering Sector :
10. Computer Software Engineering
11. Computer Hardware and Networking Engineering
(a) "The Quality Management System of
Marine Engineering (No. 09) Course of IET
is in accordance with the requirements of
ISO 9001 – 2000.
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course
the Institute is engaged in providing academic
instructions and industrial training
Programmes to meet the mandatory
requirements for knowledge, understanding
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at
the operational level related with STCW 95,
including its amendments and model course
7.04 of International Maritime Organization
(IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction.—  English
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a cantract
with the training establishment, which casts, mutual
obligations on both the training establishment and the
Apprentice. At the time of registration an apprentice
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5,000, refundable at the
completion of the course.
Those who will be leaving the programme during the
period of the course, the deposit will not be refunded.
6.2 In the event of industrial training the apprentices are
required to enter into a contract with the training
establishment.
6.3 There is no guatantee of employment at the end of the
training period.
6.4 All the students registered for the above courses should
maintain a minimum requirement of 80% attendance during
the course period. Those who fail to obtain this
requirement are not allowed to sit for the examinations
and they have to leave the present batch and continue
with the subsequent batch.
7. Award of Certificates.—  National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of
the course.
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry qualifications
as stated in para 1 within the age limit mentioned in para
2 above would be eligible. Selections will be done as given
below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible as per 8.1 will be
required to sit for a written aptitude test in English
medium. (Elegible candidates will be informed in advance).
8.3 An interview will be held to select the candidates for
different fields/specializations based on preferences in
respect of fields/specializations and order of merit at the
aptitude test.
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course
will have to appear for a medical test at their own expense
prior to registration.
9. Applications :
9.1 Applications and additional information can be obtained
from IET web site (
www.iet.edu.lk)
9.2 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake on payment of Rs. 100 in cash, or by post
by sending a money order for Rs. 100 with a self-addressed
stamped envelope (Rs. 5) size 9"x4" to “Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake” (Telephone Nos. : 011-2252833 ; 011-
2252834) up to 18th June, 2010. The above Money
Orders in respect should be drawn in favour of the
Accountant, Institute of Engineering Technology, payable
at Katunayake Post Office.
9.3 Application forms could be obtained from the following
offices up to 18th June 2010 on payment of Rs. 100 in
cash.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
679
(i) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura
Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya (Telephone :
011-2863680 ; 011-2867435).
(ii) Apprenticeship Training Institute, No. 581, Galle
Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa (Telephone :
011-2647393 ; 011-2641092).
(iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute,
No. 07, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatta, Wellampitiya (Telephone :
011-2572977 ; 011-2532182).
(iv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Uva Province, No. 288, Kumarasinghe
Mawatha, Passara Road, Badulla (Telephone :  055-
2222608).
(v) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Sabaragamuwa Province, New Colombo
Road, School Lane, New Town, Ratnapura
(Telephone : 045-2228667).
(vi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Southern Province, No. 27A, Open
University Road, Nupe, Matara (Telephone :
041-2226985).
(vii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Central Province, No. 108/2B,
Thiwankabodhi Mawatha, Mulgampola, Kandy
(Telephone : 081-2201918).
(viii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, North Central Province, Airport Road,
Anuradhapura (Telephone : 025-2223178).
(ix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, North Western Province, Near National
Youth Services Council, Negombo Road,
Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala (Telephone :
037-2221865, 037-2223789).
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Northern Province, 06, Kovil Road,
Jaffna (Telephone : 021-2222383).
(xi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Eastern Province, No. 07, G . S. Lane,
Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai (Telephone :
067-2229357).
(xii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Western Province, No. 242, Havelock
Road, Colombo 05 (Telephone : 011-2597671-2 ;
011-2587258).
DISTRICT OFFICES
(i) Telecommunication and Computer Training Centre, National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, Beruwala.
Telephone : 034-2279710.
(ii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority, No.
56, Ananda Mawatha, Gampaha. Telephone : 033-2227501.
(iii) District Office (Puttlam), Computer Apprenticeship
Training Centre, Ihalagama, Madampe. Telephone : 032-
2247776.
(iv) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, A-6, Mahaweli
Quarters, New Town, Polonnaruwa. Telephone : 027-
2223023.
(v) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, A/G Office,
Monaragala. Telephone : 055-2276504.
(vi) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 1/6, Ihala
Wewa Road, Nuwara Eliya. Telephone : 071-4408182.
(vii) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 132,
Malwatta Road, Matale. Telephone : 066-2230355.
(viii) District Office Kegalle, National Apprentice and Industrial
Training Authority, 450-A, Kandy Road, Meepitiya,
Kegalle. Telephone : 035-2223127.
(ix) Sri Saranankara Apprenticeship Training Institute,
Udawatta, Baddegama. Telephone : 091-5677388.
(x) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 14,
Indipokunagoda Road, Tangalle. Telephone : 047-2241512.
(xi) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 6, G. S.
Lane, Kalmunaikudi 13, Kalmunai. Telephone : 067-
2229357.
(xii) Tem : NAITA Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre,
No. 33/1, Main Street, Trincomalee. Telephone : 026-
2222891.
(xiii) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 16/1, New
Kalmuni Road, Batticaloa. Telephone : 071-6894457.
(xv) Computer Apprenticeship Training Centre, No. 25, Main
Road, Pettah, Mannar. Telephone : 021-2222383.
9.4 All applicants should pay non refundable fee of Rs. 500
as per the details (9.5) to any branch of people's Bank
and paying slip need to be attached to the application,
when forwarding the application.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
680
9.5 The Pay-In-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the
following :
(i) Branch Code and Account No. 267-1-001-2-
4535909.
(ii) Credit Instruction : To the credit of National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
collection Account No. 267-1-001-2-4535909 at
People's Bank, Katunayake.
(iii) Name and the Address of the Applicant.
9.6 Who are obtaining applications and details from IET
website, they have to pay total Rupees 600 as the
examination fee.
9.7 Duly filled application form, should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director/Principal, Institute
of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake
along with the Pay-In-Slip duly signed by an Authorized
officer of the Bank, on or before 18th June, 2010. Left
hand corner of the envelope "Recruitment of Special
Apprentices – 2010 Application". Late application or
application forwarded by, by hand will not be accepted.
9.8 Those who have followed or are following Diploma or
Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government
Technical Institute or University are not eligible to apply.
9.9 Originals or copies of certificates should not be sent along
with the application.
9.10 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology (IET) will not
consider or be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in
the mail. Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their
applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman.
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority,
No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
04-561
–––––––––––––
CEYLON - GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING  INSTITUTE – MORATUWA
(Ministry of Transport)
Admission to full time courses
(Under the National Apprenticeship Scheme – 2010)
APPLICATIONS are invited for admission of Male and Female Trainees for the year 2010.
Minimum Qualifications required are as follows :–
01. ( a) Age.– Between 16 and 22 years as at 31.03.2010.
(b) Education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination including Sinhala/Tamil Language (Medium of
Instruction) and Mathematics in one sitting ; or
Applicants who have special skills :
Candidates who has placed among first three places in a Provincial level competition or obtained a merit certificate by
a National Competition of Sri Lanka Inventors Commission in Electrical/Electronic/Mechanical field ;
and
Passed in six subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination including Sinhala/Tamil/language (Medium of Instruction) and
Mathematics in two sitting. (Limited number of candidates will be enroled on this category).
Note.– Those who are already following full time courses in the following training Institutes are not eligible to apply
for the full time courses of CGTTI.
(i) Apprentice Training Institute – Moratuwa.
(ii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute – Orugodawatta.
(iii) Sri Lanka German Railway Training Institute – Ratmalana.
02. Medium of Examination and Training Instructions.– Medium of Examination and Training Instruction will be conducted in
Sinhala and Tamil.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
681
03. Examination Centers.– A written examination for admission will be conducted at centers in Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Badulla,
Anuradhapura, Trincomalee and Jaffna as indicated in the application form given below. Having an additional examination centers would
be considered if there are over 100 applicants from other provinces. Applicants who possess the requisite minimum qualifications will be
allowed to sit the admission test provided examination fees referred to in column 5 below have been paid. The above test will be based on
Mathematics, General knowledge, General Intelligence and Technical Drawing.
04. Examination Fees.– Rupees Three Hundred and Fifty (Rs. 350).
Method of Payment. – The payment can be made to the any Bank of Ceylon Branch to the Accountant credit to the Account
Number 681490 maintained at Moratuwa Branch.
Paying voucher of the Bank should be attached to the application.
The application should be forwarded together with the paying voucher of the Bank.
Paying vouchers that are defaced or erased will not be accepted. Application which do not contain a credit voucher to the value
of Rs. 350 will be rejected. Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates those who are not appearing for the examinatio n or on
rejection of their applications for any other reason.
05. Primary Selection.– Primary selection of candidates for admission will be merit based on the written examination and those
who obtain the required highest marks will be summoned for an aptitude test and interview for the final selection and influenci ng in any
form would lead to disqualification. Cut off mark for less privileged provinces would be decided by the Governing Board. (Less privileged
provinces are decided according to Sri Lanka Examination Department)
06. Final Selection.– Those who obtained highest marks from aptitude test and interview would be considered for final selection.
40% marks are allocated for aptitude test and 60% for the interview. Extra curricular activities are specially considered at th e interview.
The selected candidates will have to pass a medical examination and those who fail the medical test will be discontinued.
07. Training Courses.– Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the under mentioned courses of training depending on the
aptitude they show in the test conducted after 09 months of basic training.
Automobile - 04 years
Millwright/Fitter - 04 years
Power Electrical - 03 1/2 years
Air-con. and Ref. - 03 1/2 years
Tool Machinery - 03 1/2 years
Auto electrical - 03 years
Diesel Mechanics - 03 years
Welding - 03 years
Motor vehicle body repairer and painter - 03 years
08. Bond to be signed.– Selected candidates will have to enter in to an agreement with the national apprenticeship and Industrial
Training Authority. In addition they will be boned to serve Sri Lanka Central Transport Board for two years after successful co mpletion
of their training.
09. Applications.– The application should be prepared as per specimen form given below (210mm x 297mm - A4 size) and
photo copies following certificate should also be attached with the application.
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Education Certificate ;
(c) Applicants who apply under special skills should forward certificate of Provincial/National level competition by Sri Lanka
Inventors Commission.
Application forms could be down loaded from the institute web site : (www.cgtti.slt.lk)
10. Closing date of applications. – Application should be send to The Manager – Human Resourse and Administration Ceylon
German Technical Training Institute, No. 582, Galle Road, Mount Lavinia, by registered post on or before 04th June, 2010. The envelope

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.04.2010
682
in which application is enclosed should be marked, "Recruitment of Apprentice - 2010" on the top left-hand corner. Late applications will
be rejected.
Manager,
Human Resourse and Administration.
Ceylon German Technical Training Institute,
No. 582, Galle Road,
Mount Lavinia,
Telephone : 011-2605625.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO FULL-TIME COURSE – 2010
THE CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE - MORATUWA
(Under the National Apprenticeship)
1. ( a) Full Name :––––––––––.
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
2. ( a) Postal Address :––––––––––.
(b) District :––––––––––.
(c) Province :––––––––––.
3. ( a) Date of Birth :––––––––––.
(b) Exact age on 31.03.2010 :
Years :––––––––––, Months :––––––––––, Days :––––––––––.
4. National Identity Card or Postal Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
5. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––––.
6. Educational Qualifications : Subject at the G. C. E. (O/L) should be indicated :
First Second
Year :––––––––––.        Index No. :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Subjects Grade Subjects Grade
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
7. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (Province/National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, if t he
candidate is applying under the special skills category :––––––––––.
8. ( a) Medium in which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test :––––––––––.
(b) Center at which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission test :––––––––––.
(Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Anuradhapura, Badulla and Trincomalee)
(i) Name the Bank of Ceylon Branch, where payment was made :––––––––––.
(Valid copy of the paying in voucher to the value of Rs. 350 is attached herewith)
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate, I am also aware that if any particulars
contained here in are found to be incorrect, I am liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after selection.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
04–564
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.