

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 9.75 Postage : Rs.4.50
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
REMOV AL  OF OFFICERS  (PROCEDURE)
ACT,   No.  5  OF 2002
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27, 2002
[Certified on 26th March, 2002]
Printed on the Order of Government


<!-- page 2 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
1
2—H 013394—5,550 (02/2002)
[Certified on 26th March, 2002]
L. D.— O. 6/2002.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  PROCEDURE  TO  BE  FOLLOWED  FOR
THE  REMOV AL  OF  PERSONS  APPOINTED  TO  CERTAIN   OFFICES   SPECIFIED
IN PART  II OF  THE  SCHEDULE   TO   ARTICLE   41C  OF   THE
C ONSTITUTION  ;   AND   TO   PROVIDE   FOR   MA TTERS   CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Removal of Officers
(Procedure) Act, No. 5 of 2002.
2. The holders of the Office of—
(a) the Attorney - General;
(b) the Inspector - General of Police,
shall not be removed from such Office, except in
accordance with the procedure as set out hereinafter in
this Act.
3. The persons appointed to the Offices referred to in
section 2 may be removed from office on any one or more of
the following grounds :—
(a) being adjudged an insolvent by a court of competent
jurisdiction ;
(b) being unfit to continue in office by reason of ill health
or physical or mental infirmity ;
(c) being convicted of an offence involving  moral
turpitude, treason or bribery ;
(d) being found guilty of misconduct or corruption ;
Grounds of
removal of
persons holding
Offices referred to
in section 2.
Holders of certain
Offices not to be
removed except
in accordance
with the
procedure set out
in this Act.
Short title.

<!-- page 3 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
2
(e) being found guilty of gross abuse of power of his
office ;
(f) being found guilty of gross neglect of duty ;
(g) being found guilty of gross partiality in office ; or
(h) ceasing to be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
4. (1) The removal of the holder of either of the Offices
specified in section 2 on any one or more of the grounds
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c) or (h) of section 3, shall
be by the President.
(2) In the exercise of the power referred to in subsection
(1), the President shall take into consideration such evidence
whether oral or written, which in the opinion of the President
is  adequate to support the existance of the grounds referred
to in that subsection.
5. (1) The removal by the President of the holder of
either of the Offices specified in section 2 on any one or more
of the grounds referred to in paragraphs (d), (e), (f) or (g) of
section 3, shall be after the presentation of an address of
Parliament supported by a majority of the total number of
Members of Parliament (including those not present) for the
appointment of a Committee of Inquiry :
Provided however, that no resolution for the presentation
of such an address shall be entertained by the Speaker, unless
notice of such resolution is signed by not less than one-third
of the total number of Members of Parliament including those
not present.
(2) Upon receipt of a resolution in accordance with
subsection (1), a Committee of Inquiry (hereinafter referred
to as the “Committee”) shall be constituted to inquire and
report its findings in respect of the alleged grounds,  on which
the removal is being sought.
Removal on
grounds referred
to paragraphs (a),
(b), (c) or (h) of
section 3.
Procedure to be
followed for
removal in certain
cases.

<!-- page 4 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
3
Constitution of the
Committee.
Chairman to
preside at sittings.
Functions  of the
Committee.
6. The Committee constituted in terms of subsection (2)
of section 5, shall comprise of the following persons :—
(a) where the inquiry is in relation to the Attorney-
General, the Committee shall consist of three persons
of which the Chairman shall be the Chief Justice
and two other persons appointed from among
persons who have previously held the office of
Attorney-General or persons who have reached
eminence in the field of law, appointed by the
Speaker with the concurrence of the Prime Minister
and the Leader of the Opposition; and
(b) where the inquiry is in relation to the Inspector-
General of Police, the Committee shall consist of
three persons of which the Chairman shall be a Judge
of the Supreme Court nominated by the Chief Justice,
the person holding  office as Chairman of the Police
Commission established under Article 155A of the
Constitution and a person who has reached eminence
in the field of law or management of public
administration, appointed by the Speaker with the
concurrence of the Prime Minister and the Leader
of the Opposition.
7. (1) The Chairman of the Committee shall preside at
all sittings of the Committee.
(2) The Committee may regulate the procedure with regard
to the inquiries to be conducted by such Committee.
8. (1) The functions of the Committee  shall be—
(a) to inquire into and investigate the alleged grounds
on which the  removal of the holder of, either of the
Offices specified in section 2, is being sought ; and
(b) to make findings in respect of the alleged grounds
of removal of the holders of such Offices and
forthwith communicate such finding to the Speaker ;

<!-- page 5 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
4
(2) The decision of the Committee, shall be the decision
of the majority.
9. For the purpose of discharging its functions, the
Committee shall have all or any of the following powers :—
(a) procure and receive all such evidence, written or oral
and to examine all such persons as witnesses, as the
Committee may think  necessary or desirable to
procure or examine ;
(b) require the evidence, whether written or oral of any
witness, to be given on oath or affirmation (Such
oath or affirmation would be such as would be
administered if he were giving evidence in a court
of law) and such oath or affirmation shall be
administered to every such witness by an officer
authorized in that behalf by the Committee;
(c) summon any person residing in Sri Lanka to attend
any inquiry of the Committee to give evidence or
produce any document or other thing in his
possession, and examine him as a witness or require
him to produce any document or other thing in his
possession ;
(d) admit, notwithstanding  the provisions of the
Evidence Ordinance, any evidence whether written
or oral, which would otherwise be inadmissible in
any civil or criminal proceedings ;
(e) admit or exclude the public from such inquiry or
investigation or any part thereof.
10. (1) A person who gives evidence before the
Committee shall in respect of such evidence, be entitled to
all the privileges to which a witness giving evidence before a
court of law is entitled to in respect of such evidence given by
him before such court.
Powers of the
Committee.
Immunity of
witnesses before
the Committee.

<!-- page 6 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
5
Contempt of
Committee.
Summons.
(2) No person shall in respect of any evidence written or
oral, given by that person to, or before the Committee be liable
to any action, prosecution or other proceeding civil or criminal
in any court :
Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions of this
subsection shall —
(a) affect, or be deemed or construed to affect, any
prosecution or penalty for any offence under Chapter
XI of the Penal Code ;
(b) prohibit or be deemed or construed to prohibit or be
deemed or construed to prohibit the publication or
disclosure of the name or of the evidence or any part
of the evidence of any witness who gives evidence
before the Committee, for the purposes of the
prosecution of that witness under Chapter XI of the
Penal Code.
11. (1)  Every summons issued by the Committee shall
be under the hand of the Chairman of the Committee.
(2)   Summons shall be served by delivering it to the person
named therein, or where that is not practicable, by leaving it
at the last known place of abode of that person or by sending
it by  registered post.
(3)   Every person to whom a summons is served shall
attend before the Committee at the time and place mentioned
therein, and shall answer the questions put to him by the
Committee or produce such documents or other things as are
required of him and are in his possession or authority,
according to the tenor of the summons.
12. (1)  An act done or omitted to be done in relation to
the Committee whether in the presence of the Committee or
otherwise, shall constitute an offence of contempt against, or
in disrespect of, the authority of the Committee, if such act, if
done or omitted to be done in relation to the Supreme Court,
would have constituted an offence of contempt against, or in
disrespect of the authority of, such Court.

<!-- page 7 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
6
(2) Any person who—
(a) fails without cause which in the opinion of the
Committee is reasonable, to appear before the
Committee at the time and place mentioned in the
summons served under this Act ; or
(b) refuses to be sworn or affirmed, or having being duly
sworn or affirmed refuses or fails without cause,
which in the opinion of the Committee is reasonable,
to answer any question put to him touching the
matters being inquired into, or investigated by the
Committee ; or
(c) refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinion
of the Committee is reasonable, to comply with the
requirements of a notice or written order or direction
issued or made to him by the Committee ; or
(d) upon whom summons is served under this Act,
refuses or fails without cause, which in the opinion
of the Committee is reasonable, to produce and show
to the Committee any document or thing, which is
in his possession, control or authority and which is
in the opinion of the Committee necessary for
arriving at the truth of the matters being inquired
into, or investigated,
shall be guilty of the offence of contempt against, or in
disrespect of, the authority of the Committee.
(3) Every offence of contempt committed against or in
disrespect of the Authority of the Committee shall be
punishable by the Supreme Court as though it were an offence
of contempt committed against, or in disrespect of the
authority of that Court, and the Supreme Court is hereby vested
with jurisdiction to try every such offence.

<!-- page 8 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
7
Officers and
servants to assist
the Committee.
Officers and
servants to be
public servants.
(4)  Where the Committee determines that a person is guilty
of the offence of contempt under subsection (1) or subsection
(2), against or in disrespect of its authority, the Committee
may transmit to the Supreme Court a certificate setting out
such determination ; every such certificate shall be signed by
the Chairman of the Committee, provided that in the case of
an inquiry or investigation with regard to the removal of the
Attorney- General, the Chief Justice shall take cognizance of
such offence of contempt and deal with such offence in the
manner and offence of contempt against the Supreme Court
would be dealt with.
(5) In any proceedings for the punishment of an offence
of contempt which the Supreme Court may think fit to take
cognizance of, as provided by in this section, any document
purporting to be a certificate signed and transmitted to such
Court under subsection (4), shall—
(a) be received in evidence, and be deemed to be such a
certificate without further proof ; and
(b) be evidence that the determination set out in the
certificate and the facts stated in such determination
was made by the Committee.
(6)  In any proceedings taken as provided for in this section
for the punishment of an alleged offence of contempt against,
or in disrespect of, the authority of the Committee, no member
of the Committee shall, and notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Act, be summoned or examined as a witness.
13. The Committee may obtain the assistance of such
officers and servants as may be necessary to assist it in the
discharge of its functions under this Act.
14. The officers and servants appointed to assist the
Committee shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning of the Penal Code and every inquiry or investigation
conducted by the Committee shall be deemed to be a judicial
proceeding within the meaning of that Code.

<!-- page 9 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
8
15. (1) No proceedings, civil or criminal, shall be
instituted against any member of the Committee or any officer
or servant appointed to assist the Committee other than for
contempt, or against any other person assisting the Committee
in any other way, for any lawful act which in good faith is
done or omitted to be done, by him as such member or officer
or servant or other person.
(2)  A member of the Committee or an officer or servant
appointed to assist the Committee shall not be required to
produce in any court, any document received by, or to disclose
to any court, any matter or thing coming to the notice of the
Committee in the course of any inquiry or investigation
conducted by the Committee under this Act, except as may
be necessary for the purposes of proceedings for contempt or
for an offence under this Act.
(3)  No proceedings civil or criminal, shall be instituted in
any court against any member of the Committee in respect of
any finding or report made by the Committee under this Act.
16. The officers and servants appointed to assist the
Committee shall be deemed to be officers of a Scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
17. The Speaker shall, upon receipt of the findings of the
Committee in terms of paragraph (b) of section 8 and where a
finding of guilt has been arrived at, place such finding in the
form of a resolution in the Order Paper of Parliament for the
removal of the holder of such office in respect of whom the
inquiry was held.
18. The resolution so placed on the Order Paper in terms
of section 17  shall be dealt with in accordance with the
Standing Orders of Parliament. Upon the majority of Members
of Parliament (including those not present) voting in favour
of such resolution, the holder of such office to whom such
resolution relates shall forthwith be removed from office by
the President.
Removal.
Officers and
servants to be
Scheduled
officers.
Resolution for
removal.
Immunity from
suit.

<!-- page 10 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
9
Interpretation.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
20. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Attorney-General” means the holder of the Office of
Attorney-General of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka ; and
“Inspector-General of Police” means the holder of the
Office of Inspector-General of Police of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 11 -->

Removal of Officers (Procedure)
Act, No. 5 of 2002
10
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.