

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
157
157
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 18th July, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
04th  July, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 158
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"869- 2014 cqks 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'06'27
No. 1,869 – FRIDAY ,  JUNE 27,  2014
N.B.– Part  IV A   of the Gazette  No. 1,868 of 20.06.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'27
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.06.2014
158
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/38912.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.:CPC/LC/LD/4/1/29/173.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the  Commercial Purpose,
Peoples Bank, Naula  has  requested on lease a  State land containing
in extent about  04 P. forming a portion of lot number A as depicted
in the  tracing F. V . P. 254 and  situated in the  village of Naula  which
belongs to the  Grama Niladari Division  of  Naula coming within
the  area  of authority of  Naula  Divisional Secretariat in the
District of Matale.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Lot Number 359 ;
On the East by : The part of Lot  Number 358 ;
On the  South by : Lot Number 586 (road (Pradeshiya Sabha);
On the West by : Lot Number 351 (road).
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30) ,  ( From 29.05.2014
onwards);
The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the  commercial
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer for
the year 2014. This amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the amount
as  a result of the  revision will be not  less than  50% of the
amount that just preceded.
Premium  - Three times of the annual rent of the  lease  ;
(b) This  lessee must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes  other
than  the purpose of  Commercial  Activities  ;
(d) The  lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary/Scoping Committee/Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka and   by other  Institutions;
(e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum
period of 05 years  ;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
D. T. M J
AY ATHILAKA ,
Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,  "Mihikatha Medura",
Land Secretariat, Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
03rd June, 2014.
06-666PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.