

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEM OCRATIC 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
SRI LANKA 
SIRAJ ARABIC COLLEGE, ODDAMAVADI 
(INCORPORATION) 
ACT, No. 37 OF 2000 
[Certified on 28th July, 2000] 
Printed on the Order of Government 
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka of July 28, 2000 
PRINTI!DATlllE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 
TO BE PURCHASED AT lllE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO ) 

<!-- page 2 -->



<!-- page 3 -->



<!-- page 4 -->



<!-- page 5 -->

Accounts and 
Audit. 
Seal of the 
Corporation. 
Saving of the rights 
of the Republic and 
others. 
Sinhala text to 
prevail in cnse of 
inconsistency. 
4 Siraj Arabic College, Oddamavadi 
( Incorporation) Act, No. 37 of 2000 
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of
money required to defray any expenditure incurred by the 
Corporation in the exercise and discharge of its powers 
and functions under this Act. 
(3) The moneys and property of the Corporation,
wheresoever derived shall be applied solely towards the
promotion of the objects as setforth herein and no portion
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly, by
way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever by way of
profit to the members of the Corporation.
9. ( 1) The Corporation shall cause proper accou1n:, ,v
be kept of all the moneys received and expended by the
Corporation. 
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited al least once in every year and the correctness of
Income and Expenditure Account and Balance Sheet certified 
by an auditor or auditors who shall be associate members of
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka appointed 
by the Corporation. 
10. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such 
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules of the 
Corporation, who shall sign their names on the instrument 
in token of their presence and such signing shall be 
independent of the signing of any person as a witness. 
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate 
or of any other persons, except, such as are mentioned in this 
Act, and claiming by, from, or under, them. 
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 

<!-- page 6 -->

