

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'05'08
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 08.05.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1817$28 - 2013 cQ,s ui 03 jeks nodod - 2013'07'03
No. 1817/28 - WEDNESDAY ,  JULY  03,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
NOTICE  UNDER  SECTION  3(1)  OF  THE  REGISTRATION  OF  ELECTORS
(SPECIAL  PROVISIONS)  ACT  No.  27  OF  2013
Supplmentary list for insertion of names of Sri Lankan citizens whose names have not been registered as electors
elsewhere in 2012 and who were internally displaced as a result of actions of militant groups
in Northern-Eastern Provinces
ELECTORAL  DISTRICT NO. 10 - JAFFNA
In terms  of the Section 3(1) of the Registration of Electors (Special Provisions) Act, No. 27 of 2013, it is hereby notified that
the preparation of the supplementary list for displaced persons relevant to the afore mentioned electoral district has been
completed and it is now open for inspection by the general public during office hours at the District Elections Offices Jaffna/
Kilinochchi.
02. Any person who is eligible to be registered in the supplementary list of afore mentioned electroal district but
whose name does not appear in the list may appeal to the Registering Officer using the form set out in the afore mentioned
Registration of Electors Act, in order to enter or retain his/her name in the register. Every application regarding this matter
should be submitted to the Registering Officer of District Elections Office, Jaffna/Kilinochchi within one week from the date
on which the notice is published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
03. Any person whose name is included into the supplementary list of the afore mentioned electoral district, could
object to retain his/her own name or the name of any other person. These objecions shall be in duplicate substantially on
Form "E" set out in the afore mentioned Act and be submitted to the Registering Officer of the Elections Office, Jaffna/
Kilinochchi. Every objection relating to the entering of a name in the register should be submitted to the Registering Officer
of District Elections Office, Jaffna/Kilinochchi within one week from the date on which the notice is published in the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
This notice will be exhibited at the Elections Office, Jaffna/Kilinochchi from 03rd July 2013 to 09th July 2013.
04. Forms required to make appeals to insert or retain a name in the register or to submit objections to a person's
request could be obtained from the afore mentioned Elections Office in the Administration District of Jaffna/Kilinochchi.
A. O. M. N
AFEEL,
Assistant Registerning Officer,
Electoral District No. 10 - Jaffna.
Elections Office, Jaffna
03rd July 2013.
07 - 518/1
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'07'03
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 03.07.2013
2A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
NOTICE  UNDER  SECTION  3(1)  OF  THE  REGISTRATION  OF  ELECTORS
(SPECIAL  PROVISIONS)  ACT  No.  27  OF  2013
Supplmentary list for insertion of names of Sri Lankan citizens whose names have not been registered as electors
elsewhere in 2012 and who were internally displaced as a result of actions of militant groups
in Northern-Eastern Provinces
ELECTORAL  DISTRICT  NO.  11  -  V ANNI
In terms  of the Section 3(1) of the Registration of Electors (Special Provisions) Act, No. 27 of 2013, it is hereby notified that
the preparation of the supplementary list for displaced persons relevant to the afore mentioned electoral district has been
completed and it is now open for inspection by the general public during office hours at the District Elections Offices in
Mannar/Vavuniya/Mullativu.
02. Any person who is eligible to be registered in the supplementary list of afore mentioned electroal district but
whose name does not appear in the list may appeal to the Registering Officer using the form set out in the afore mentioned
Registration of Electors Act, in order to enter or retain his/her name in the register. Every application regarding this matter
should be submitted to the Registering Officer of District Elections Office, Mannar/V avuniya/Mullaitivu within one week
from the date on which the notice is published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
03. Any person whose name is included into the supplementary list of the afore mentioned electoral district, may
object to retain his/her own name or the name of any other person. These objections shall be in duplicate substantially on
Form "E" set out in the afore mentioned Act and be submitted to the Registering Officer of the Elections Office, Mannar/
Vavuniya/Mullaitivu. Every objection relating to the entering of a name in the register should be submitted to the Registering
Officer of District Elections Office, Mannar/Vavuniya/Mullaitivu within one week from the date on which the notice is
published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
This notice will be exhibited at the Elections Office, Mannar/Vavuniya/Mullaitivu from 03rd July 2013 to 09th July
2013.
04. Forms required to make appeals to insert or retain a name in the register or to submit objections to a person's
request could be obtained from the afore mentioned Elections Office in the Administraion District of Mannar/Vavuniya/
Mullaitivu.
A. M. M. K
ABEER,
Assistant Registerning Officer,
Electoral District No. 11 - Vanni.
Elections Office, V avuniya
03rd July 2013.
07 - 518/2