

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'04
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1765$7 - 2012 cQ,s ui 04 jeks nodod - 2012'07'04
No. 1765/7  — WEDNESDAY    JULY  04,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
STRATEGIC   DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT, No.  14  OF  2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY  virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 as
amended, I, Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Development, being the Minister in charge of the subjects of
Investment and Tourism, do by this Notification -
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project to construct, build
and operate a Mixed Utility Complex including a luxury hotel at Fort, Colombo 01 in the Western Province with a
total investment of United States Dollars One Hundred Forty Million (US$ 1,40,000,000) as a project of national
interest that is likely to bring economic and social benefit and also to change the landscape of the Country, and
further notify that WelcomHotels Lanka (Private) Limited (“Project Company”) entered into a Project Agreement
with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka on 4th May, 2012 ;
(2) Declare that the said site of Fort, Colombo 01 containing in extent Five Acres Three Roods and Eighteen decimal
Seven Perches (5A., 3R., 18.7P.) was leased and demised unto the Project Company for a period of ninety nine (99)
years by virtue of indenture of lease dated 4th May, 2012, and that the Project Company has deposited into the
account of the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury (Urban Development Fund) an upfront Lease Premium of United
States Dollars Seventy Three Million and Five Hundred Thousand (US$ 73,500,000) which shall form part of the
aforementioned total investment of United States Dollars One Hundred Forty Million (US$ 140,000,000) ;
(3) Further declare that the date of implementation of the Project shall be 4th May, 2012 wherein the project agreement
between the Board of Investment and the Project Company has been executed, and commencement of commercial
operations of the project shall be within sixty (60) months from the date of approval of the Mixed Use Project as a
Strategic Development Project under the said Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 as amended, by
a resolution passed by the Parliament granting the concessions/exemptions referred to in the Schedule hereto ;
(4) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of
2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall apply to the project company.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'04
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2012
2A
SCHEDULE
(a) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
(i) The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of Income Tax of
the Project Company on the profit from the project shall not apply for a period of ten (10) years (“Tax
Exemption Period”). The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be exempted
from income tax during the said Tax Exemption Period and one year thereafter.
(ii) The said exemption period to commence from the first year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profit or three (03) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls first.
(iii) After the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period referred to in sub-clause (i) above the profits
and income of the Project Company shall be charged at the rate of the lower of six percentum (6%) or
fifty percentum (50%) of the prevailing tax rate for the hotel industry, for a period of fifteen (15) years
immediately succeeding the last date of the Tax Exemption Period (“Tax Concessionary Period”)
(iv) Provided that after the expiration of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period and Tax Concessionary Period
referred to above, income tax in respect of the profits and income of the Project Company shall be
payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
(v) The expatriate staff of the Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Pay As You
Earn Tax (PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum
number of 20 employees. This concession shall be applicable for a period of five years from the date of
commencement of commercial operations. The Project Company shall be required to gradually replace
expatriate staff with local employees on a best efforts basis.
(vi) The recipient shall be fully exempt from the charge of income tax under any provision of the Inland
Revenue Act and the Project Company shall be exempt from the payment of Withholding Tax on the
following :
(a) interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure ;
(b) technical fees to consultants ;
(c) management fees up  to 3%   on gross revenue ;
(d) royalty fees up to 1.5% on gross revenue ;
(e) marketing fees up to 1.5% on gross revenue ;
(f) incentive management fees up to 10% on gross operating profit ;
(g) charges towards reservations made through the Central Reservation System of ITC
Limited/other service providers of the Company. The charges prevailing as on the date of this
Agreement for such reservations are in the range of United States Dollars 5-6 per reservation.
(b) The Value Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
The importation of project related goods and the Local purchases of project related goods and services
during the Mixed Use Project Implementation period shall be fully exempted from charge and payment of
Value Added Tax (V AT). The V AT exemption shall be applicable not only for direct suppliers to the
Company/Project but also for supplies made by a sub contractor to a contractor as approved by the Project
Company for suppliers to the Company/Project.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'04
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 04.07.2012
The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as defined in the V AT Act,
No. 14 of 2002, on the commencement of commercial operations.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
The payment and charge of Port and Aviation Levy (PAL) shall be fully exempted on all items imported for
implementing the project (whether directly imported by the Project Company or soucrced through contrac-
tors) during the Mixed Use Project implementation period.
(d) Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005
The Company shall be exempted from the construction industry guarantee fund levy imposed in relation to
the Mixed Use Project.
(e) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all imports of project related items required for the Mixed
Use Project, whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through contractors provided
that the goods are consigned in the name of the Company shall be exempted from customs duty as approved
by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka for the purpose of the   Mixed Use Project during the implementation
period.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, MP,
Minister of Economic Development.
Colombo,
on this 29th day of June 2012.
07 - 499
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.