

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 14.06.2024
N. B.–   (i) Part III of the Gazette No. 2,222 of 01.04.2021 was not published.
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PRoVIncIAL  councILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
    Page
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...   —
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 368
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant  ... —
                                                                                                         Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.  ...               369
Notices calling for Tenders   ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices  ... —
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
     
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
ATTeNTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette 05th July, 2024 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th June,  2024.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
367 - B 82580- 5,403  (06 /2024)                                                                                                                                           
 wxl 2"389 - 2024 cqks ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'06'14              
 No. 2,389 - FRIDAy ,  JUNe 14, 2024                                                                                                         

<!-- page 2 -->

368
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 14.06.2024
Provincial Councils Notifications
ThIhAGoDA  PRADeShIy A  SAbhA
Imposing entertainment Tax
NOTIce MADe UNDeR SecTION 2(1) OF No. 12 oF ENtER tAiNmENt tAx oRDiNANCE 1946
AS per the powers vested by Sub Section 2(1) of Entertainment tax ordinance No. 12 of 1946 revised by Entertainment tax 
(Amendment) ordinance No. 37 of 1984 which should be read with paragraph (a) of Sub section 1 of Section 1 of No.12 
of 1989 Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act 1, Dr. William Wijesinghe Gamage, Honorable Governor of 
Southern Province hereby approve the decision taken under desicion No. 2023/11/07/245 on 07.11.2023 by thihagoda 
Pradeshiya Sabha.
 W illiam  W ijesinghe  g amage ,
 Honorable Governor of Southern Province.
At Governor's Secretariat,
22nd April 2024.
Decision
i hereby decide that an amount of money similar to 10% (Hundred percent) from the payment made for any entertainment 
activity mentioned in the aforementioned Ordinance maintained within the Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha administration 
limits as per the Entertainment tax ordinance No. 12 of 1946 revised by No. 37 of 1984 Entertainment tax (Amendment) 
ordinance should be imposed and recovered as a tax and this decision should be effective from the first day of the next 
month immediately following month in which it is published in the standard Gazette. Also the Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha 
further decides that the above imposed entertainment tax should be paid to the Thihagoda Pradeshiya Sabha by the relevant 
organizer or organizers before the day of the said entertainment event.
06-57
GoVeRnoR’S offIce - noRTh  cenTRAL   PRoVInce
order of Subject minister
tHE Secretary who executing powers duty & functions of Nochchiyagama Pradeshiya Sabha in terms of Section 9(3) of 
Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of  1987 has decided to get order of minister in charge of Subject of Local Government in 
terms of Section 146(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 to make a new valuation.
i, maheepala Herath, the Governor of North Central Province hereby order for a new valuation upon assessment property 
in terms powers vested by Sec. 146(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 read with Section 2 of Provincial Council 
(incidental Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989 situated developed area in Nochchiyagama Pradeshiya Sabha Limit as per 
Section 146(1) of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 
m aheeP ala  h erath ,
 The Governor,
 minister in Charge of Subject of Local Government,
 North central Province.
 Anuradhapura.
14th August,
Governor’s office,
North central Province.
06-84/1

<!-- page 3 -->

369
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 14.06.2024
GoVeRnoR’S  offIce - noRTh  cenTRAL   PRoVInce
To obtain the Approval of the minister for Rates Interest
I, approve the decision taken by S. D. t. U. Dharmarani, the Secretary and officer executing powers duty & functions to 
impose and charge 15% annual assessment tax of annual value of property situated within developed area in Nochchiyagama 
Pradeshiya Sabha Limit in terms of powers vested in him under Section 134(1) read with Section 9(3) of Pradeshiya Sabha 
Act, No. 15 of 1987.
 
m aheeP ala  h erath ,
 The Governor,
 minister in Charge of Subject of Local Government,
 North central Province.
 Anuradhapura.
14th August,
Governor’s office,
North central Province.
06-84/2
examinations, Results of examinations, &c.
noRTh  WeSTeRn  PRoVIncIAL   PubLIc  SeRVIceS  commISSIon
Open Competitive Exam for recruiting Tax Officers for the Provincial Revenue Department in the North 
Western Provincial council Public Service – 2024
IT  is hereby announced that applications are invited (online) for recruiting 04 tax officers for the vacancies existing in 
Grade ii Class ii of the North-Western Provincial Revenue Service. the above examination will be held in August 2024 
in kurunegala city by the North-Western Provincial Public Services Commission. Sri Lankans (males and females), who 
are permanent residents of the North-Western Province, and those qualified as per the provisions given in the scheme of 
recruitment and the promotion procedure of officers in the provincial revenue department of the North-Western Province are 
eligible to apply for this examination.
    
 1. Salary scale :
  As per  mN 5 – 2016, the salary scale for this post is Rs. 34,605 –10 x 660 –11 x 755 –15 x 930 – Rs. 63,460  
  
 2. The following qualifications must be met before applying for this position.
   
 (I) Should have obtained a degree from a university recognized by the University Grants commission.
        or
 (II) Should have passed any of the following professional examinations, those are recognized by the North 
Western Provincial Council Public Services Commission as equivalent to a degree awarded by a university 
recognized by the University Grants commission.
  (a) intermediate exam of the institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka.
 (b) Diploma in Accountancy or commerce in SLIATe
 (c) IcMA - United Kingdom Part I, II, and III.
 (d) AccA - United Kingdom Part I, II, and III
      or 
 

<!-- page 4 -->

370
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 14.06.2024
 (III) Being a lawyer
        or
 
 (iV) officers who have completed 10 years of satisfactory service in a permanent post in Public/Provincial Public 
management Service officer’s Service are also eligible to apply for this examination. Only Twenty-five 
percent (25%) of the available vacancies will be filled under this. 
      
3.  Other Qualifications : 
  
 (I) Applicants must be of excellent character.  
 (ii) Every applicant must be a Sri Lankan. 
 (iii) Residency should be proved at the interview by a DS 04 certificate issued by Grama Niladhari to be a 
permanent resident in the North-Western Province for at least three (3) consecutive years by the closing date 
of applications.
 
 (iV) When the applicant cannot prove permanent residency for 03 years in the North-Western Province by the 
closing date of applications, he/she is still eligible to apply if the spouse has permanent residency in the North-
Western Province for 03 minimum years. (Spouse's residential certificate (DS 04) along with the marriage 
certificate should be produced at the time of the interview)
 
 (V) Applicant’s age as of the closing date of applications should be at least 18 years and not exceed 35 years. (this 
maximum age limit shall not apply to applicants who apply under condition 2 (IV) above.)
 
 (Vi) Every candidate must be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the post and work in any part of 
the North-Western Province.
 
    
4.  conditions of Service : 
  
 4.1 this post is permanent. Appointees will be subjected to any policy decision taken by the Government about 
the pension scheme entitled for this post, in the future.   
 4.2 Appointees will be subjected to a probationary period of three years. they will be made permanent in their 
posts after the probationary period if they have maintained satisfactory service in performance and conduct 
during their probationary period, have completed the 1st efficiency bar examination, and have fulfilled other 
qualifications required.
  
 4.3 the second language competency applicable to the post should be obtained within 03 years of the appointment 
as per the Public Administration circular No. 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020. 
 4.4 officials who join the service through a medium of language other than the official language must acquire the 
required proficiency in the official language during the probationary period.
 4.5 In addition to the provisions in the scheme of recruitment and the promotions procedure for this post, the 
appointees are subjected to the establishments' code and financial regulations of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, further to the North Western Provincial Financial Regulations, North Western Provincial 
Council Disciplinary Procedure, North Western Provincial Council Procedural Rules and the Departmental 
orders and to any other order imposed by the Government and North Western Provincial Council.
 
 
5.  Recruitment :  
 
 5.1 Method of Recruitment : 
  Recruitment is done based on the results of a written examination conducted by the North-Western Provincial 
council Public Service commission.

<!-- page 5 -->

371
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 14.06.2024
  
 5.2 This written examination consists of two (02) papers. 
  
Paper Time total marks Pass mark
General Knowledge 02 hours   100 40%
Aptitude Test 01 ½  hours 100  40%
 
      
 5.3   Syllabus : 
 
 (i) General Knowledge - 02 hours. ( 100 marks). 
   A question paper that measures general knowledge with more emphasis on economic and commercial 
knowledge in Sri Lanka. 
 (ii) Aptitude test - 1 ½ Hours (100 marks) 
 5.4    exam Procedure :  
 
 (I) Applicants are allowed to apply for this examination either in Sinhala, Tamil, or english medium. 
 (II) every applicant should sit for both question papers. 
 (III) every applicant should sit for all question papers in one language medium. This language medium should 
be the language expected for the appointment. 
 (IV) Applicants are not allowed to change the language medium mentioned in the application, at a later 
stage. 
 (V) A minimum of 40% marks should be obtained in each of the above subjects to pass this 
examination.
 
    
 5.5  The interview : 
 
 (i)  An equal number to the number of vacancies will be called for an interview to check qualifications, based 
on the order of the total marks obtained in the competitive examination. 
 (ii)  in the interview, the basic qualifications including educational, professional,  and physical fitness will be 
checked, but marks will not be given. 
    
6. examination fees :
   A sum of Rs. 1,200/- as the examination fee should be paid to any Divisional Secretariat in North Western Province 
to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the North Western Provincial Council and the receipt W.P.S.m.02 
obtained from the Divisional Secretariat in favor of the applicant’s name should be affixed at the relevant place of 
the downloaded application. Receipts obtained by debiting to other institutions or Money Orders or Money will not 
be accepted other than W.P.S.m.02 receipt. Such applicants will not be allowed to sit for the examination. it should 
be noted that the examination fee is non-refundable under any circumstance and examination fees paid will not be 
allowed to transfer to any other examination. (Please keep a photocopy of the receipt for future reference) 

<!-- page 6 -->

372
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 14.06.2024
7. method of Application : 
  
 7.1 (a) Calling for applications for this recruitment will be done online through the website : psc.nw.gov.lk. The 
application should be completed by visiting the website psc.nw.gov.lk and following the instructions. in addition, 
the online application should be downloaded as a PDF, printed, and submitted as a hard copy.  
  (b)  An applicant will be allowed to submit only one online application.  
  (c) The payment receipt should be attached to the prescribed place in the hard copy and sent to the North-
Western Provincial Council Public Services Commission through registered post or courier service. (Keeping 
a photocopy of the downloaded hard copy will be useful)
 
    
 7.2 Closing Date of Applications  08.07.2024.
  
 7.3 Duly filled downloaded hardcopy should be sent under registered post/courier service to reach the address 
mentioned below on or before 15.07.2024.
Secretary, 
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission,
Provincial Council office Complex, 
Kurunegala
.
"Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment of Tax Officers in the Provincial Revenue Department of 
north Western Provincial council Public Service - 2024"  should be mentioned on the top left corner of the envelope.
 
     
8. An admission card for the examination will be issued to the applicants who have paid the examination fee and submitted 
the online application and the printed copy on or before the due dates, by the Secretary of North Western Provincial 
Public Service Commission, on the presumption that all applied applicants have fulfilled the required qualifications 
mentioned in the notification.
 if the admission is not received at least 03 days before the examination date, it should be notified immediately to the 
Exams division by telephone at 0372233769. 
  
    
9. Identity of the Applicants:
 Every applicant should prove his / her identity for the examination, interview, and practical test using the below-
mentioned documents.
 
  
  (a) National Identity card issued by the Department of  Registration of Persons.  
  (b) Valid passport.  
  (c) Valid Sri Lankan driving license. 
note:  if an applicant fails to prove his identity at the examination hall, he/she will be considered ineligible to sit for the 
examination.   
    
10. Applications should be filled with due consideration providing accurate information. Submitted information will not be 
allowed to be altered under any circumstances. if an applicant is found to be ineligible, his/her candidature is liable to 
be canceled before, during, or after the examination, or at any other stage. If it was found that an applicant has furnished 
false information or intentionally omitted accurate information even after his/her appointment, he/she shall be liable for 
dismissal or termination from the Public Service at any time.
  

<!-- page 7 -->

373
 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'06'14
Part IV (A) – GAzette  of  the  democrAtIc  SocIAlISt  republIc  of  SrI  lAnkA – 14.06.2024
11. the decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission will be final and conclusive on the 
matters about this notification and the matters not covered in this notification or any other matter not provided for in the 
notification.   
    
12. the North Western Provincial Council Public Services Commission reserves the right to decide on conducting, 
postponing, or revoking this examination, or selecting or not selecting or the number of vacancies.
   
13. if there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in Sinhala, 
Tamil, and english, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such instances.
         By order of the North Western Provincial Public Service Commission,
 e. m. P. ekanayake,
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial Public Service Commission,
North Western Provincial Council Complex,
Kurunegala.
29th may 2024.
06-85 
              
PRiNtED  At  tHE  DEPARtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LANKA.