

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 210
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 210
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"952 – 2016 ckjdß ui 29 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'01'29
No. 1,952 – fRiday ,  JaNuaRy  29, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 19th february, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 05th  february, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
W. A. A. G. FonsekA,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
207

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
208
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
209
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
210
Posts – Vacant
RegistRaR   geneRal ’s   Dep aRtment
posts of Registrars marriages, Births and Deaths in tamil medium  
 
Kandy   district
applications are invited for the posts of registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Birth, d eaths and Marriages registration divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places 
such as district secretariats, land and district registries, divisional secretaries offices, Grama niladhari offices, rural development 
societies and co-operative societies in the division.
06. application forms are obtainable from the offices of district s ecretaries (Government a gents) and l and and district 
registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the s chedule on or before 29th February, 
2016.
 E. M. Gunasekera,
 registrar General.
registrar General’s department,
no. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
11th January, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Applications are  called Applications should be sent
Kandy Nawalapitiya p ost of registrar of Births and deaths of district s ecretary/additional
   n awalapitiya divisional secretariat  r egistrar General, district   
   division including n awalapitiya district  s ecretariat Kandy.
   Hospital (tamil Media). 
01–960
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  SkILLS   DEvELOPmENT  AND  
vOCATIONAL  TRAINING 
Department of Technical Education and Training 
I, amend the first paragraph of the notification, to calling 
applications for the open competitive examination - 2015 to 
recruit to Grade III of the post of Technical Officer of Supervisory 
Management assistant technical Service category of the 
department of technical Education and training, published in the 
Gazette Notification No. 1,922 of 03.07.2015 of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
applications are invited for open competitive examination 
to select suitable persons for 06 vacancies, existing in the 
Posts of Technical Officer in the Mechanical and civil fields of 
Supervisory Management assistant technical Service category 
of the department. an application, on form of the specimen 
mentioned at the end of this notification, prepared according 
to the following instructions in a4 size paper using both sides 

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
211
should be sent under registered cover to reach the director 
General department of technical Education and training, P. o. 
Box 557, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before the date 
under mentioned. the envelope enclosing the application should 
clearly be marked "open competitive Examination to recruit to 
the post of Technical Officer, Mechanical/Civil" on the top left 
hand corner. 
 J. a. Ranjith,  
 director General. 
01–1119
–––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of SkILLS  DEvELOPmENT  AND  
vOCATIONAL  TRAINING 
Department of Technical Education and Training 
I amend the first and third paragraphs of the notification, to 
calling applications for the limited competitive examination 
- 2015 to recruit to the training Grade of the post of technical 
Officer of Supervisory Management Assistant Technical Service 
category of the department of technical Education and training, 
published in the Gazette Notification No. 1922 of 03.07.2015 of 
democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 
applications are invited for limited competitive examination 
to select suitable persons for 02 vacancies, existing in the 
Posts of technical Officer in the Mechanical and civil fields of 
Supervisory Management assistant technical Service category 
of this department. an application, on form of the specimen 
mentioned at the end of this notification, prepared according 
to the following instructions in a4 size paper using both sides 
should be sent under registered cover to reach the director 
General department of technical Education and training, P. o. 
Box 557, Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 on or before the date 
under mentioned. the envelope enclosing the application should 
clearly be marked  "Limited competitive Examination to recruit 
to the post of Technical Officer, Mechanical/Civil" on the top left 
hand corner. 
03. Salary Scale.– in terms of Public administration circular 
No. 06/2006 (II), an allowance of Rs. 12,920 (monthly) is 
applicable for the training grade. if successfully followed 
the training course and appointed to Grade iii of the post of 
Technical Officer, salary scale of Rs. 15,005 -4x180 -6x240 - 
11x320 - 20x360 - Rs. 27,885 (monthly) of salary code MN-3-
2006(A) is applicable, in terms of Public Administration Circular                           
No. 06/2006(IV).
 J. a. 
Ranjith,  
 director General. 
01–1118
DEPARTmENT  Of  SPORTS  DEvELOPmENT
Recruitment of Grade III Supervisory management 
Assistants - Technical (02 vacancies)
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan citizens who fulfill 
the following qualifications for the existing vacancies of the posts 
of Grade iii Supervisory Management assistants - technical in 
the department of Sports development. 
01. Educational and Other Qualifications : 
 1.1  Educational Qualifications :
  1.1.1 Should have passed six (06) subjects in one sitting 
with credits for Sinhala/Tamil/English language, 
Mathematics, Science and one other subject at the 
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ; and 
  1.1.2 Should have passed three subjects in Science/
Mathematics stream at the G. C. E. (A/L) 
Examination. 
 1.2 Professional Qualifications : 
  1.2.1 National technical diploma offered by the 
university of Moratuwa or Hardy institute, 
Ampara ; or
  1.2.2 National diploma in Engineering Science offered 
by the National apprentice and insdustrial training 
Institute (NAITA) ; or
  1.2.3 National Higher Diploma in Engineering offered 
by the Ministry of Education and Ministry of 
Higher Education ; or
  1.2.4 technical diploma offered by the open university 
of Sri Lanka ; or
  1.2.5 Successful completion of Part i of the engineering 
examination held by the institution of Engineers 
Sri Lanka ; or
  1.2.6 completion of the National V ocational 
Qualification (NVQ) level 6 relevant to the job 
field ; or
  1.2.7 Having obtained other technical qualifications that 
are determined as equivalent in every aspect to 
the above technical qualifications by the Tertiary 
and V ocational Education commission after 
inquiring the Ministry of Higher Education and the 
above mentioned institutions that issue technical 
certificates. 
 1.3 Physical Qualifications : 
  1.3.1 All applicants should be physically and mentally 
fitting to work in any area of Sri Lanka and to 
fulfill the duties of the office. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
212
 1.4 Other Qualifications : 
  1.4.1 Should be a Sri Lankan citizen. 
  1.4.2 Should possess an excellent character. 
  1.4.3 Should have completed all qualifications on the 
date determined by the notice/ Gazette of calling 
applications. 
  1.4.4 any person who holds priesthood in any religious 
sect is not qualified to sit for the examination. 
02. (i) Salary Scale .– Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 -6x240 -11x320- 
20x360 - Rs. 27,885.
 (ii) (MN-3-2006-A)
03. General Conditions :
 3.1 Age limit.– Should not be below 18 years and over 30 
years on 01.01.2016.
 3.2 Recruitment procedure : 
 3.2.1 Recruitment will be done on the results of a 
written competitive examination and a structured 
interview. 
 3.2.1.1 examination criterion : 
  the examination is a written test consisting 
of two subjects conducted in Sinhala, English 
and tamil media. applicants are not allowed 
to change the medium once applied. 
   Total Minimum Time
   marks percentage 
   obtainable of marks
    to pass the
    examination
 (i) Intelligence 100 40% 01 hour
  test
 (ii) Technical  100 40% 03 hours
  question 
  papers
 3.2.1.2 Syllabus : 
 (i) Intelligence test - consists of questions 
designed to evaluate the applicant's 
rationality of thinking, analyzability power 
of thinking and power of decision making. 
 (ii) Technical question paper –
 
  ( a) Building construction : 
 (i) Brick wall and stone wall (joint corners, 
arches, wet ridges, lintels and plinth)
 (ii) Types of cement mixtures, plastering 
and concrete mixtures.
 (iii) Various types of joints, cutting grooves, 
rebating, joining, tenon cutting, joining 
wall plates and casual joining. 
 (iv) Various types of roofs (brick tiles, 
asbestos sheets, aluminium sheets, 
Sinhala tiles, flat concrete)
 (v) Soil work (belting, leveling, standard)
 (vi) Building ridges and drainage systems.
 ( b)  Painting.– Applying various types 
of paints, painting walls, timber 
painting, applying varnish, applying 
anti-corrosive paints, applying 
printed paint etc.)
 ( c) Classification of timber, timber 
seasoning, knowledge on terrazzo and 
tile installation. 
 ( d) Preparing work plans according to 
provided drafts.
 ( e) Preparing bills according to quantity 
papers.
 ( f) Basic water supply and drainage : 
Water pipes small scale buildings, 
laying drainage pipes, constructing 
garbage pits, water sealed tools, water 
tanks and wells etc.  
 3.2.1.3 General Interview : 
  applicants are called for the general 
interview based on the marks obtained at the 
written examination. an equivalent number 
of applicants to the number of vacancies are 
called for the general interview. (No marks 
are given).
04. Selection criteriion : 
 4.1 a number of applicants equivalent to the number of 
vacancies available are selected according to the order 
of skills from those who score the highest marks at the 
written examination. (Applicants who fail to prove the 
basic qualifications at the interview are not recruited 
although they have scored the required level of skills 
at the examination).
05. Preparing/filling the application forms : 
 5.1 application forms should be prepared in the medium 
that the applicant wishes to face the examination. 
 5.2 the name of the examination mentioned in the title of 
the application forms produced in Sinhala and tamil 
should also be mentioned in English. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
213
 5.3 The application should be prepared in A4 sheets 
according to the specimen application form annexed 
with this notice. 
 5.4 The signature of the applicant should be certified 
by a principal of a Government School, a justice of 
peace, a commissioner of oaths, a Public Notary, a 
Warranted Officer of the Tri-forces, a Police Officer 
in a Gazetted position in the Sri Lanka Police  Service 
or a Government Officer holding a Tertiary or 
Senior Level permanent position in the Government 
Service according to the classification in the Public 
Administrative Circular No. 06/2006.
 5.5 Provision of false information.– the candidacy for the 
examination of any applicant who is found to have 
been disqualified to sit for the examination, who have 
deliberately produced false information or who have 
deliberately concealed any crucial information will be 
cancelled during or after the examination and will be 
dismissed from service if thus found after appointment 
in service. 
06. Producing the application forms : 
 6.1 Applicants should forward the duly filled application 
forms according to the specimen application form 
annexed with this notice by registered post on or 
before 17.02.2016 to the following address.
 6.2 Forwarding the application forms : 
  director General, 
  department of Sports development,
  No. 09, Phillip Gunawardane Mawatha, 
  Colombo 07.
 6.3 The words "Recruitment of Grade III Supervisory 
Management assistants - technical" should be clearly 
mentioned in the top left corner of the envelope of the 
application form. 
 6.4 It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the duly filled 
application form with the applicant. 
07. Receipt of application forms and issuing of admission 
cards :
 7.1 Application forms that are not filled according to 
the specimen application form, and that are unduly 
filled will be discarded without notice. The applicants 
should bear the cost of unduly filled application forms. 
 7.2 The receipt of application forms will not be noticed. 
any entry regarding the loss of application forms in 
the post is not entertained. 
08. Sitting for the examination : 
 8.1 The qualified applicants will be later informed about 
the date and venue of this examination. 
 8.2 the applicants should get their names and signatures 
in the admission card certified before sitting for the 
examination. The admission card with the certified 
name and signature should be produced before the 
chief examiner at the examination hall in order 
to be permitted to sit for the examination. the 
applicant should sit for the examination at his/her due 
examination center. 
 8.3 All candidates are subject to the rules and regulations 
regarding the examination provided by the institution 
that holds the examination. any applicant who violates 
those rules and regulations should be subjected to the 
due penalties. 
09. Identity of the candidate .– all applicants should prove 
their identity for each subject to the satisfaction of the Chief 
Examiner at the examination hall. the following documents will 
be accepted : 
 (i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Department 
of Registration of Persons. 
 (ii) Valid Passport. 
10. the director General of Sports development will 
decide on any matter not mentioned in this notice, if any. all 
applicants should abide by the general rules and regulations of 
the examination mentioned in this Gazette. 
11. actions will be taken according to the notice published in 
the medium of Sinhala in case any contradiction or inconsistency 
occur in the linguistic phrases of this notice published in the 
media of English and tamil. 
12. Conditions of appointment in service : 
 12.1 this position is permanent and pensionable. Should 
pay contribution fees to the widows/widowers and 
orphans pension scheme.
 12.2 Conditions of Service :
  the conditions of the procedural rules mentioned 
in the Gazette ( extraordinary) No. 1589/30 dated 
20.02.2009 of the Public Service commission and the 
provisions of the Establishments code apply for every 
appointment in service. 
13. Any applicant will be subjected to dismissal from service 
in any case it is confirmed that he/she has deliberately provided 
false information, suppressed any vital information or in case it 
is confirmed that he/she is not eligible for service at any instance 
during the period of service. 
  K. d. S. 
RuwanchandRa, 
  director General, 
  department of Sports development.
No. 09, Phillip Gunawardane Mawatha, 
Colombo 07, 
13th January, 2016.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
214
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM 
depaRtment of SpoRtS development 
RecRuitment of gRade iii SupeRviSoRy management 
aSSiStantS - technical - 2016
*  Medium of examination Sinhala - 2
 (Indicate the relevant number in the box) Tamil   - 3
01.  (a) Name with initials at the end :
   eg. (Gunawardhana M. G. B. S. K.)
   (Fill in English block capitals)
  ( b) Name with initials at the end :    
  (In Sinhala/Tamil)
   Mr./Miss./Mrs.  :–––––––––––.
  ( c) Names indicated by initials  :–––––––––––.
   (In Sinhala/Tamil)
  ( d) Names indicated by initials (in English) :
   (Fill in English block capitals)
02. National identity card Number : 
03. Sex : 
 Male - 0
 female - 1
 (Indicate the relevant number in the box)
04. Permanent address  :
  ( a) (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.
  ( b) in English :–––––––––––.
   (Fill in English block capitals)
   (Admission cards will be posted to this address)
  ( c) district of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
  ( d) divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
  ( e) your telephone number :
   fixed :–––––––––––. Mobile :–––––––––––.
05.  (a) date of birth : 
   y ear : Month : date : 
  ( b) age as at 01.01.2016 :
   y ears :  Months : days :
06. Marital status : 
 Married  - 1
 unmarried -  2
07. Ethnicity : 
 Sinhala - 1,  Tamil  - 2,  Other  - 3
 (Indicate the relevant number in the box)
08. Educational Qualifications : 
  ( a) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
   first attempt 
   y ear :–––––––––––.
   admission No. :–––––––––––.
  No.  Subject  Grade 
 
   G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : 
   Second attempt 
   y ear :–––––––––––.
   admission No. :–––––––––––.
  No.  Subject  Grade 
 
  ( b) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination : 
   y ear :–––––––––––.
   admission No. :–––––––––––.
  No.  Subject  Grade 

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'01'29
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.01.2016
215
09. Professional/Technical qualifications :
 (Provide certified copies of the relevant certificates with the 
application)
  9.1 diploma awarded :–––––––––––.
  9.2 Name of the institution :–––––––––––.
  9.3 Date of validity of the diploma :–––––––––––.
  9.4 NVQ level of the diploma :–––––––––––.
10. Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
11. Have you ever been convicted for any charge at the court or 
is there any court action against you at present ? 
 Yes/No
  11.1 if yes please clarify :–––––––––––.
12. Certification of the applicant : 
 (a) i declare that the information provided in this 
application is true and accurate to my best knowledge.
 (b) i am aware that i am not eligible for appointment 
in service in case the information provided in this 
application is proved to be false and that i will be 
subjected to dismissal from service in case it is thus 
proved after being appointed in service. 
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
 ( c) further, i declare that i abide by the rules and regulations 
of the examination. 
 (d) i will not change any information in this application in 
the future. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date :–––––––––––.
13. Certification of the applicant's signature : 
i hereby certify that i personally know ....................... who is 
producing this application form and that he/she signed before me 
on ..................... under the above paragraph No. 12.  
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the certifying person. 
date :–––––––––––.
01–1066
––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy  Of  SOCIAL  EmPOWERmENT  AND  WELfARE 
Department of Divinaguma Development 
oPEN coMPEtitiVE ExaMiNatioN foR tHE REcRuitMENt of diViNaGuMa dEVELoPMENt 
officERS GRadE iii of MaNaGEMENt aSSiStaNtS NoN-tEcHNicaL SEGMENt - 2 SERVicE 
CODE (MN-01-2006A) - 2016
tHiS is referred to the announcement published under the Gazette Number 1950 dated on 14th January 2016, in the Gazette of the 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka regarding the calling of applications for the above mentioned open competitive examination. 
following sentences of the above referred Gazette announcement will be amended as below : 
2. the closing date of applications is 19th february 2016. the candidates who have already applied need not to apply again. 
4.4 The age must be not less than 18 years and not more than 35 years on the closing date of calling of applications.  
Please note that all the other details mentioned in the above Gazette announcement will remain unchanged. 
 chandRa wickRamaSinghe, 
 director  General. 
department of divinaguma development, 
4th floor - Stage i, 
Sethsiripaya, 
Baththaramulla.
01-1127