

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE
PROTECTION  OF  ALL  PERSONS  FROM
ENFORCED  DISAPPEARANCE
ACT, No. 5 OF 2018
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 21st of March, 2018]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 16.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 23, 2018
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
2—PL 05071—  2977 (03/2017)
Preamble.
Short title.
[Certified on 21st of March, 2018]
L.D.—O. 9/2016.
AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION FOR THE
PROTECTION OF ALL PERSONS FROM ENFORCED DISAPPEARANCE; TO
ENSURE THE RIGHT TO JUSTICE AND REPARATION TO VICTIMS OF
ENFORCED D ISAPPEARANCE ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS  Sri Lanka became a signatory to the
International Convention for the Protection of All Persons
from Enforced Disappearance on December 10, 2015
(hereinafter referred to as the “Convention”):
AND WHEREAS by an instrument of ratification dated May
3, 2016, and deposited with the Secretary-General of the
United Nations Organization on May 25, 2016, Sri Lanka
ratified the aforesaid Convention:
AND WHEREAS the aforesaid Convention has entered into
force in respect of  Sri Lanka, with effect from June 24, 2016:
AND WHEREAS it has become necessary for the
Government of Sri Lanka to make legislative provision to
give effect to Sri Lanka’s obligations under the aforesaid
Convention:
NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This Act may be cited as the International Convention
for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced
Disappearance Act, No. 5 of 2018 and shall come into force
on the date of Certification in terms of Article 79 of the
Constitution.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
Convention
States.
2. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette,
certify the States which are parties to the Convention. A
State in respect of which an Order is made under this section,
is hereinafter referred to as “a Convention State”.
3.  (1) Any person who, being a public officer or acting
in an official capacity, or any person acting with the
authorization, support or acquiescence of the State -
(a) arrests, detains, wrongfully confines, abducts,
kidnaps, or in any other form deprives any other
person of such person’s liberty; and
(b) (i) refuses to acknowledge such arrest, detention,
wrongful confinement, abduction, kidnapping,
or deprivation of liberty; or
(ii) conceals the fate of such other person; or
(iii) fails or refuses to disclose or is unable without
valid excuse to disclose the subsequent or
present whereabouts of such other person,
shall be guilty of the offence of enforced disappearance, and
shall after conviction after trial on indictment by the High
Court, be punished with imprisonment for a term not
exceeding twenty years, and also be liable to pay a fine not
exceeding one million rupees and shall further be liable to
pay compensation not less than five hundred thousand
rupees to a victim.
(2) Any person who -
(a) wrongfully confines, abducts, kidnaps or in
any other form deprives any other person of
such person’s liberty; and
(b) (i) refuses to acknowledge such wrongful
confinement, abduction, kidnapping, or
deprivation of liberty; or
Enforced
Disappearance
etc.

<!-- page 4 -->

3International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
(ii) conceals the fate of such other person; or
(iii) fails or refuses to disclose or is unable
without valid excuse to disclose the
subsequent or present whereabouts of
such other person,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall after
conviction after trial on indictment by the High Court, be
punished with imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty
years, and also be liable to pay a fine not exceeding one
million rupees and shall further be liable to pay
compensation not less than five hundred thousand rupees to
a victim.
(3) A superior who –
(a) knows, or consciously disregards information
which clearly indicated, that subordinates under
the effective authority and control of such
superior were committing or about to commit an
offence under subsection (1);
(b) exercises effective responsibility for and control
over activities which were concerned with the
offence of enforced disappearance; and
(c) fails  to take all necessary and reasonable
measures within his power to prevent or repress
the commission of an offence under sub section
(1) or to submit the matter to a law enforcement
authority for investigation and prosecution,
shall be guilty of the offence of enforced disappearance, and
shall after conviction after trial on indictment by the High
Court, be punished with imprisonment for a term not
exceeding twenty years, and also be liable to pay a fine not
exceeding one million rupees and shall further be liable to
pay compensation not less than five hundred thousand
rupees to a victim.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
(4) In this section “wrongful confinement”, “kidnapping”
and “abduction” have the same meaning as in sections 331,
350, 351, 352 and 353 of the Penal Code.
4. (1) Any person who aids or abets the commission of
any offence set out in section 3, or conspires or attempts to
commit any offence set out in section 3, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall after conviction after trial
on indictment by the High Court, be punished with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty years, and
also be liable to pay a fine not exceeding one million rupees
and shall further be liable to pay compensation not less than
five hundred thousand rupees to a victim.
(2) In this section “abet” and “conspiracy” have the same
meaning as in sections 100, 101 and 113
A respectively, of
the Penal Code.
5. Every offence under this Act shall be a cognizable
offence and a non-bailable offence, within the meaning,
and for the purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure  Act,
No. 15 of 1979.
6. (1) The High Court of Sri Lanka holden in Colombo,
or the High Court established under Article 154
P of the
Constitution, for the Western Province holden in Colombo,
shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
written law, have exclusive jurisdiction to try offences under
sections 3 and 4 of this Act.
(2) Where an act constituting an offence under this Act is
committed outside Sri Lanka, the High Court referred to in
subsection (1), shall have the jurisdiction to try such offence
as if it were committed within Sri Lanka, if -
(a) the offender whether he is a citizen of Sri Lanka or
not is  present in any territory under the jurisdiction
of Sri Lanka;
Cognizable and
non-bailable
offence.
Aiding, abetting,
attempt &
conspiracy.
High Court to
try offences
under this Act,
and penalties.

<!-- page 6 -->

5International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
(b) the person alleged to have committed the offence
is a citizen of Sri Lanka, or a national of another
State which is a party to the Convention, or by a
stateless person who has his habitual residence in
Sri Lanka; or
(c) such act is committed against, or on board -
(i) a ship flying the flag of Sri Lanka; or
(ii) an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka at the time
of the commission of the offence;
(d) the person in relation to whom the offence is alleged
to have been committed is a citizen of Sri Lanka.
7. Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka is
arrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall be
entitled -
(a) to communicate without delay, with the nearest
appropriate representative of the State of which he
is a national or which is otherwise entitled to protect
his rights, or if he is a stateless person, with the
nearest appropriate representative of the State in
the territory of which he was habitually resident;
(b) to be visited by a representative of that State; and
(c) be informed of his rights under paragraphs ( a)
and (b).
8. Where a request is made to the Government of
Sri Lanka, by or on behalf of the Government of a Convention
State for the extradition of any person accused or convicted
of an offence under sections 3 or 4, the Minister shall, on
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, forthwith notify the
Government of the requesting State of the measures which the
Government of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, for
the prosecution or extradition of that person for that offence.
Rights of certain
persons arrested
for offences
under this Act.
Minister to
notify
requesting State
of measures
taken against
persons for
whose
extradition
request is made.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
9. (1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance in
Criminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it is
necessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offence
under sections 3 or 4, be applicable in respect of the providing
of assistance as between the Government of Sri Lanka and
other States who are either Commonwealth countries
specified by the Minister by Order under section 2 of the
aforesaid Act or Non-Commonwealth countries with which
the Government of Sri Lanka entered into an agreement in
terms of the aforesaid Act.
(2) In the case of a country which is neither a
Commonwealth country specified by the Minister by Order
under section 2 of the aforesaid Act nor a Non-
Commonwealth country with which the Government of
Sri Lanka entered into an agreement in terms of the aforesaid
Act, then the Government may afford all such assistance to,
and may through the Minister request all such assistance
from, a Convention country, as may be necessary for the
investigation and prosecution of an offence under sections
3 or 4, to the extent required for the discharge of its obligations
under the Convention (including assistance relating to the
taking of evidence and statements, the serving of process
and the conduct of searches).
(3) The grant of assistance to a Convention country may
be made subject to such terms and conditions as the Minister
thinks fit.
10. Where there is an extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State in
force on the date on which this Act comes into operation,
such arrangement shall be deemed for the purposes of the
Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision for the
extradition in respect of the offences under this Act.
Existing
extradition
arrangements
with Convention
States deemed to
provide for
offences.
Assistance to
Convention
States.

<!-- page 8 -->

7International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
11. Where there is no extradition arrangement made by
the Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State,
the Minister may by Order published in the Gazette, treat
the Convention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law,
No. 8 of 1977 as an extradition arrangement, made by the
Government of Sri Lanka with the Convention State
providing for extradition in respect of the offences under
this Act.
12. The Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 is hereby
amended in the Schedule to that Law, by the addition
immediately after item 37 of the items appearing immediately
before Part B of that Schedule, of the following item:–
“(37A) An offence within the scope of the Convention
for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced
Disappearance Act, No. 5 of 2018.”.
13. Notwithstanding anything in the Extradition Law,
No. 8 of 1977, an offence specified in the Schedule to that
Law or an offence under this Act, shall for the purposes of
that Law be deemed not to be an offence of a political
character or an offence connected with a political offence or
an offence inspired by political motives, for the purposes
only of the extradition of any person accused or convicted
of any such offence, as between the Government of Sri Lanka
and any Convention State, or of affording assistance to a
Convention State under section 9 of this Act.
14. (1) Every victim and relative of a victim shall have
the right to know the truth regarding the circumstances of an
enforced disappearance, the progress and results of the
investigation as are carried out by the law enforcement
authorities, and the fate of the disappeared person.
(2) Every victim and relative of a victim shall, subject to
restrictions placed by law, have the right to form and freely
participate in organizations and associations concerned with
attempting to establish the circumstances of offences
Minister may
treat Convention
as an extradition
arrangement
between
Sri Lanka and
certain
Convention
States.
Amendment to
the Extradition
Law, No. 8 of
1977.
Offences under
this Act not to
be political
offences for the
purposes of the
Extradition Law.
Rights of victims
and relatives 
vis-
à-vis law
enforcement
authorities .

<!-- page 9 -->

8 International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
committed under section 3 and the fate of disappeared
persons, and to assist victims of offences under section 3.
(3) Where there are reasonable grounds for believing that
a person has been subjected to an offence under section 3,
law enforcement authorities shall undertake an
investigation, even if there has been no formal complaint.
(4) Law enforcement authorities shall take all appropriate
measures to search for and locate the disappeared person,
and in the case of a person held in secret detention, procure
the release of such person, and in the event of death, to
locate, respect and return the remains of such person.
15. (1) No person shall be held in secret detention.
(2) Any person deprived of liberty shall have the right to
communicate with and be visited by his relatives, attorney-
at-law or any other person of his choice, subject only to the
conditions established by written law.
(3) Law enforcement authorities, and the Human Rights
Commission of Sri Lanka, shall have access to the places
where persons are deprived of liberty.
(4) Law enforcement authorities shall assure the
compilation and maintenance of up-to-date official registers
or records of persons deprived of liberty, which shall be
promptly made available, upon request, to any judicial or
other competent authority or institution authorized for that
purpose by the law, and shall contain -
(a) the identity of the person deprived of liberty;
(b) the date, time and place where the person was
deprived of liberty and the identity of the authority
that deprived the person of liberty;
Obligations
concerning
deprivation of
liberty.

<!-- page 10 -->

9International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
(c) the authority that ordered the deprivation of liberty
and the grounds for the deprivation of liberty;
(d) the authority responsible for supervising the
deprivation of liberty;
(e) the place of deprivation of liberty, the date and
time of admission to the place of deprivation of
liberty and the authority responsible for the place
of deprivation of liberty;
(f) information relating to the state of health of the
person deprived of liberty;
(g) in the event of death during the deprivation of
liberty, the circumstances and cause of death and
the destination of the remains; and
(h) the date and time of release or transfer to another
place of deprivation of liberty, the destination of
the place of deprivation of liberty to which a person
is transferred, and the authority responsible for the
transfer.
16. (1) Any relative of a person deprived of liberty, the
representative of a person deprived of liberty or an attorney-
at-law of a person deprived of liberty shall have the right to
access the following information:-
(a) the person or authority that ordered the deprivation
of liberty;
(b) the date, time and place where the person was
deprived of liberty and admitted to the place of
deprivation of liberty;
(c) the authority responsible for supervising the
deprivation of liberty;
Rights of
relatives,
representatives
and attorneys-at-
law.

<!-- page 11 -->

10 International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
(d) the whereabouts of the person deprived of liberty,
including, in the event of a transfer to another place
of deprivation of liberty, the destination and the
authority responsible for the transfer;
(e) the date, time and place of release;
(f) information relating to the state of health of the
person deprived of liberty; and
(g) in the event of death during the deprivation of
liberty, the circumstances and cause of death and
the destination of the remains.
(2) Any person referred to in subsection (1) of this section,
as well as persons participating in the investigation, shall be
protected from any ill-treatment, intimidation or sanction as
a result of the search for information concerning a person
deprived of liberty.
(3) Without prejudice to consideration of the lawfulness
of the deprivation of a person’s liberty, any person referred
to in subsection (1) shall have the right to a prompt and
effective judicial remedy as a means of obtaining without
delay the information referred to in subsection (1) of this
section, and such right to a remedy shall not be suspended
or restricted in any circumstances.
17. (1) any person, including a person suspected of
having committed an offence under sections 3 or 4 of this
Act, who -
(a) interferes with the conduct of an investigation;
(b) influences the progress of an investigation by
means of pressure or acts of intimidation or reprisal
aimed at the complainant, witnesses, relatives of
the disappeared person or their attorney-at-law or
persons participating in the investigation;
Interference
with and
influencing
investigations,
and failure to
record or refusal
to provide
information.

<!-- page 12 -->

11International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
(c) being the officer responsible for the official register,
intentionally fails to record the deprivation of
liberty of any person, or records any information
which he knew to be inaccurate;
(d) refuses to provide information on the deprivation
of liberty of a person, or provides inaccurate
information, notwithstanding the fact that legal
requirements for providing such information have
been met,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
(2) A person guilty of an offence under subsection (1)
shall after conviction after trial on indictment by the High
Court, be punished with imprisonment for a term not
exceeding seven years and to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand rupees.
18. (1) No person shall be expelled, returned,
surrendered or extradited to another State where there are
substantial grounds for believing that such person would be
in danger of being subjected to enforced disappearance.
(2) For the purpose of determining whether there are such
grounds referred to in subsection (1) of this section, all
relevant considerations, including, where applicable, the
existence in the State concerned of a consistent pattern of
gross, flagrant or mass violations of human rights or of serious
violations of international humanitarian law shall be taken
into account.
(3) The Minister may make  regulations prescribing the
criteria upon which a person may be expelled, returned,
surrendered or extradited to another State.
19. Without prejudice to the use of information in
criminal proceedings relating to an offence committed under
this Act, or the exercise of the right to obtain reparations,
No extradition
where there is a
possibility of
such person
being subjected
to enforced
disappearance.
Privacy and data
protection.

<!-- page 13 -->

12 International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
personal information, including medical and genetic data,
which is collected or transmitted within the framework of
the search for a disappeared person, shall not be used or
made available for purposes other than the search for the
disappeared person, and shall not be collected, processed,
used or stored in a manner that infringes or has the effect of
infringing the fundamental rights and freedoms or dignity
of a person.
20. (1) Without prejudice to any judicial or other remedy
provided for by or under any written law, any person with a
legitimate interest shall be entitled to apply by way of
petition addressed to the High Court seeking the enforcement
of sections 7, 14, 15, 16 or 19 of this Act and to plead for
such relief or redress as shall be prayed for in such petition.
(2) The jurisdiction of the High Court may be invoked
under subsection (1) of this section by any person with a
legitimate interest, by himself or through any other person
on his behalf, within three months of the date on which the
non-enforcement of sections 7, 14, 15, 16 or 19 of this Act
becomes known to such person, as the case may be.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
law, the High Court may, where it considers it appropriate at
any stage of the proceeding relating to a petition made to it
under subsection (1) of this section, refer such matter to the
Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka for an inquiry and
report and request such Commission to submit its report to
the High Court within such time as shall be stipulated by the
Court for that purpose.
(4) The High Court shall have the power to grant the
relief prayed for in a petition made to it under subsection (1)
or grant such other relief or make such direction as it may
consider just and equitable, in the circumstances of the case.
(5) Any person aggrieved by an order made by the High
Court in any petition filed under this section, shall have a
Enforcement of
the provisions of
this Act.

<!-- page 14 -->

13International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
right of appeal to the Supreme Court against such order
within six weeks of the date on which such order is made.
21. The Minister may from time to time issue guidelines
or such general or special directions as may be required for
the effective implementation of the principles and provisions
of the Convention to such extent as is necessary to give full
effect to Sri Lanka’s international obligations under the
Convention.
22. (1) Without prejudice to any provision in this Act,
the Minister may make regulations for the purpose of giving
effect to the principles and provisions of this Act or any
matter which is prescribed or in respect of which regulations
are required or authorized under this Act to be made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
23. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law and accordingly in the event of any inconsistency or
conflict between the provisions of this Act and such other
written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
24. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
Provisions of
this Act to
prevail over
other written
law.
Regulations.
Minister to issue
guidelines or
directions.

<!-- page 15 -->

14 International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
Interpretation. 25. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -
“effective authority and control” means the power
to issue orders to subordinates and the
capacity to ensure compliance with such
orders;
“deprivation of liberty” means the confinement
of a person to a particular place, where such
person does not consent to that confinement;
“Human Rights Commission of Sri Lanka”
means the Human Rights Commission of
Sri Lanka, established by the Human Rights
Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No. 21 of 1996;
“law enforcement authority” means a police officer
or any other person or institution authorized
by or under any written law to investigate
into the commission of an offence;
“secret detention” means circumstances in which
a person is held in a place that is not a place
of detention authorized by or under any
written law, and where the whereabouts or
fate of the person are not known to his
relatives or others;
“victim” means the disappeared person and any
individual who has suffered harm as the direct
result of an enforced disappearance.

<!-- page 16 -->

15International Convention for the Protection of
All Persons from Enforced Disappearance
Act, No. 5 of 2018
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.