

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2022
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2298$53 - 2022 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'09'23
No.  2298/53  -  fridAy,   september  23,   2022
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A-   G 37570 — 366  (09/2022)
OffICIAL  SECRETS  ACT
Order made by the President under Section 2 of Official Secrets Act, No. 32 of 1955.
     
 Ranil  WickRemesinghe,
 president and minister of defence,
 democratic socialist republic of 
 sri Lanka.
On 16th of september, 2022
in Colombo.
Order
1.   this Order may be cited as High security Zone Order bearing No. 01 of 2022. 
2.	 	 The	High	Security	Zones,	which	comprise	of	the	areas	specified	in	the	Schedule	of	these	Orders,	are	hereby	
declared. 
3.   the secretary to the ministry of defence shall be the competent authority for the implementation of these orders. 
4. (1)  the competent authority may make provisions for the regulation of certain activates within the High security 
Zones based on the security situation or during special occasions. 
 (2)  the competent authority may issue commands incidentally from time to time for the proper implementation of 
these orders. 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2022
2A
 (3)  When a command is issued to a certain person under the sub section (2), it shall be the duty of such person to act 
in compliance with the said command.
5.  Unless the prior written permission of the inspector General of police or senior deputy inspector General of 
police in charge of Western province is obtained, no person shall conduct or hold a public gathering or procession 
whatsoever on a road, ground, shore or other open area situated within the High security Zones.
6. (1)  No person shall perform a construction of a building, a temporary or permanent construction or an excavation 
within the High security Zones unless a permit from the competent authority is obtained for the said purpose 
in	addition	to	the	legal	requirements	which	should	be	fulfilled	by	the	person	who	intends	to	perform	the	said	
construction of a building, a temporary or permanent construction or an excavation.
 (2)  each permit should specify the terms and conditions and the said construction or excavation should be performed 
subject to the said terms and conditions. 
	 (3)		The	permit	issued	under	the	sub	section	(1)	should	be	produced	for	inspection	whenever	a	police	officer	requests	to	
do so.
 (4)  No vehicle should be parked within the High security Zones unless reserved for parking by the competent authority 
or under the power of a permit issued by an authority mentioned in sub section (1).
7.	 	 A	certificate	issued	under	the	signature	of	the	competent	authority	confirming	that	the	actions	specified	in	the	
certificate	took	place	within	the	High	Security	Zones	should	be	admissible	as	evidence	and	it	should	be	a	prima 
facie evidence.
8.  it shall be lawful for the inspector General of police to implement the provisions of these orders and when required, 
performing certain tasks mechanically or otherwise or the use of vehicles or another medium for that purpose shall 
also be lawful.
9.	(1)		When	 a	police	officer	has	reasons	to	suspect	that	a	person	has	committed	an	offence	under	these	orders	or	violates	
provisions	of	these	orders,	within	the	High	Security	Zones,	the	said	police	officer	may	subject	the	person	to	an	
inspection.
	 (2)		When	a	police	officer	has	reasons	to	believe	that	a	person	has	committed	an	offence	as	per	these	orders	or	by	violating	
these	orders,	within	the	High	Security	Zones,	the	said	police	officer	may	subject	the	person	to	an	interrogation.
 (3)  Violation of these orders shall constitute an offence.
 (4)  All the offences mentioned in these orders shall be considered as cognizable offences within the meaning and for 
the purpose of Code of Criminal procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.
 (5)  A person taken into custody in connection with an offence under these orders shall not be granted bail except by a 
High Court. 
10. (1)  the chief occupant of a certain building situated within a High security Zone shall produce a list of all the permanent 
or	temporary	residents	to	the	Officer	in	Charge	of	the	Police	Station	of	the	said	area	when	ordered	to	do	so.	
 (2)  Upon the submission of a list as per the orders of sub section (1), a change in occupancy of the said building should 
be	informed	to	the	Officer	in	Charge	of	the	said	Police	Station	by	the	chief	occupant	within	24	hours	from	such	
change. 
11.	 	 In	the	event	of	an	order	given	by	the	Officer	in	Charge	of	the	Police	Station	of	the	area,	each	employer	of	either	
government department or private institution situated within the High security Zone shall submit details regarding 
all	the	persons	employed	in	their	establishments	to	the	Officer	in	Charge	of	the	relevant	Police	Station.	
12		 (1)		A	police	officer	authorized	in	that	behalf	by	the	Inspector	General	of	Police	may	enter	a	certain	premises	within	the	
High security Zone and check whether the provisions of the 6th order of these orders are being violated. 
	 (2)		Should	there	be	any	action	found	in	violation	of	the	6th	order	of	these	orders,	the	police	officer	who	conducts	
the	inspection	that	leads	to	the	said	finding	shall	inform	the	person	performing	or	the	one	in	charge	to	stop	the	
construction or excavation or any other duties with immediate effect. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2022
3A
 (3)  if a person further continues any construction or excavation work even after being ordered to stop such work as per 
the sub section (2), such person shall be guilty of committing an offence under this order.
13.	 	 No	person	shall	light	fire	crackers	or	fireworks	of	any	description	whatsoever	within	the	High	Security	Zones.
14.  A person who either violates the provisions of these orders or refuses or fails to comply with any provisions or 
orders	given	by	the	competent	authority	or	any	police	officer	as	the	case	may	be	under	the	provisions	of	these	orders	
or	a	person	who	obstructs	or	prevents	a	police	officer	or	someone	performing	duties	under	the	competent	authority	
or his command or cause another person to do so shall be guilty of an offense under these orders.
15.  Any person who is guilty of an offence under these orders shall be liable, on conviction as per the provisions 
mentioned	in	Section	26(2)	of	Official	Secrets	Act,	to	a	punishment	under	the	said	section.	
16.		 	 Definitions	-	
  "procession" shall have the same meanings as in the police Ordinance bearing No. 16 of 1865.
Schedule – (A)
Parliament Complex
On the NOrtH by  :- from polduwa Junction to the speaker's residence, Kumbukgaha duwa road, rajamalwatta 
road, Jayanthipura Junction, Jayanthipura road and parliament road including diyawanna 
Lake.
On the eAst by  :-  from Jayanthipura Junction to Outer Vehicle park of the parliament (Alcatraz park), parliament 
Ground, Keangnam Junction, Japan sri Lanka friendship road, pahalawela road to Kimbulawala 
Junction including diyawanna Lake.
On the sOUtH by :-  from Kimbulawala Junction to pin Niyara Junction of thalawathugoda road, Area up to pin 
Niyara including sudarshana mawatha, daham mawatha, Gamage mawatha, eeyam poruwa 
temple road, byroads and mp’s Quarters - madiwela, pita Wella road at the back of mp’s 
Quarters including diyawanna Lake.
On the West by :- from pin Niyara Junction to beddagana Junction of thalawathugoda road, polduwa Junction 
including  diyawanna Lake along  beddagana road, polduwa road, Wehera Kanda road, 
beddagana, Nippon road 
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)
Schedule – (B)
Supreme Court Complex, High Court Complex- Colombo, Magistrate Court Complex- Colombo and Attorney 
General’s Department
On the NOrtH by  :- from dam street, Aluthkade street to belmont street
On the eAst by  :- from belmont street to Adhikarana mawatha Junction along sanchi Arachchi Gardens road
On the sOUtH by :- parcel roundabout, sanchi Arachchi Gardens road
On the West by :- st.sebastian Hill street, mihindu mawatha, st.sebastian street
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2022
4A
Schedule – (C)
Presidential Secretariat, President's House, Sri Lanka Navy Headquarters and Police Headquarters
On the NOrtH by  :- from NsA roundabout to police Headquaters along Chaithya road
On the eAst by  :- from york street and Lotus road Junction to regal Cinema, beira Lake, morgan road, Justice 
Akbar mawatha
On the sOUtH by :- from Justice Akbar mawatha, Galle face road and the bridge at Justice Akbar mawatha to the 
west boundary of former sri Lanka Army Headquarters including baladaksha mawatha
On the West by :- from Chaithya road Junction to Galle face roundabout and the respective sea shore
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)
Schedule – (D)
The Ministry of Defence and Sri Lanka Army Headquarters- Akuregoda
On the NOrtH by  :- ministry of defence mawatha
On the sOUtH by :- diyawanna Garden road,
On the West by :- perera mawatha, school Lane, desinghe mawatha, Lieutenant Colonel Ashoka mawatha, 
d.G.Wijesinghe mawatha
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)
Schedule – (E)
Sri Lanka Air Force Headquarters- (Slave Island)
On the NOrtH by  :- Chittampalam Gardiner mawatha, beira Lake
On the eAst by  :- beira Lake, morgan road
On the sOUtH by :- Kew road, Kumaran ratnam road, Justice Akbar mawatha
On the West by :- from regal Cinema to Justice Akbar mawatha along beira Lake road
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)
Schedule (f)
Prime Minister’s Office (Flower Road)
On the NOrtH by  :-    inner flower road
On the eAst by  :- sir ernest de silva mawatha (flower road)

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'09'23
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINARY  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF  SRI  LANKA - 23.09.2022
5A
On the sOUtH by :- 05th Lane 
On the West by :- 27th Lane
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)
Schedule (G)
Temple Trees (Kollupitiya)
On the NOrtH by  :- from rotunda Junction of the Galle road to perehara mawatha, Alwis road Junction through 
rotunda roundabout,
On the eAst by  :- from dharmapala mawatha to Alwis road Junction and from Alwis road to perahara mawatha 
Junction,
On the sOUtH by :- from Coastal line of Kollupitiya railway station to station road, Kollupitiya Junction, 
dharmapala mawatha, Liberty roundabout and Alwis road Junction,
On the West by :- from Kollupitiya Junction to rotunda Junction of the Galle road
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)
Schedule – (H)
Official Residencies of the Secretary to the Ministry of Defence and the Commanders of Tri Forces
On the NOrtH by  :- bauddhaloka mawatha, Jawatta Junction, and from Jawatta road to Keppetipola mawatha 
Junction.
On the eAst by  :- from Keppetipola mawatha to sri sambuddhathva Jayanthi mawatha Junction and from sri 
sambuddhathva Jayanthi mawatha to thummulla Junction
On the sOUtH by :- from Keppetipola mawatha Junction to sri sambuddhathva Jayanthi mawatha Junction along 
Keppetipola mawatha
On the West by :- from thummulla Junction to Jawatta Junction along bauddhaloka mawatha
(Excluding Diplomatic premises in the area)
eOG 09 - 0246
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,   SRI  LANKA.