

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.08.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1770$25 - 2012 wf.daia;= ui 10 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'08'10
No. 1770/25  — FRIDAY    AUGUST  10,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
L. D. —B 4/96.
FISHERIES  AND  AQUATIC   RESOURCES  ACT, No. 2 OF 1996
REGULATIONS  made by the Minister of Fisheries and Aquatics Resources Development under Section 61 read with para-
graphs (c) of Section 8 of the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996
DR. RAJITHA SENARATHNA,
Minister of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Development.
Colombo,
6th  August, 2012.
REGULATIONS
1. These regulations may be cited as the Fishing Operations Regulations of catching Live Ornamental Fish or
Lobster in the South Coast (Matara and Galle District) Fisheries Management Area, 2012.
2. These Regulations shall apply to every license holder engages in fishing operations to catch live Ornamental Fish
or Lobster in the South Coast (Matara and Galle District) Fisheries Management Area published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1665/18 of August 04, 2010.
3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Fishing Operations Regulations, published in the
Gazette Extraordinary No. 948/25 of  November 07, 1996, no license holder shall engage in any fishing operations to catch live
Ornamental Fish or Lobster in South Coast (Matara or Galle District) Fisheries Management Area, unless the license issued to
such licence holder bears an endorsement to the effect that it is “Valid for catching Live Ornamental Fish or Lobster in the
South Coast (Matara and Galle District) Fisheries Management Area”
4. No Fishing Operation License shall be-
(a) issued or renewed except upon a recommendation made by the Fisheries Committee where such license
holder is a registered member ; or
(b) transferable or sold to any other person :
Provided however, in the case of permanent disability or death of such license holder, the Director-General
shall, upon the recommendations made by the Fisheries Committee shall take steps to transfer the license of
such license holder to a member of his family.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Government  Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'10
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 10.08.2012
2A
5. The Director-General may determine the number of license that may be issued upon the review of the South Coast
(Matara and Galle District) Fisheries Management Plan.
6. Any person who wishes to engage in fishing operations to catch both Live Operational Fish and Lobster shall be
required to have separate license.
7. The licence issued to a license holder who does not engage in fishing operations shall not be renewed by the
Director-General, except upon a recommendation made by the Fisheries Committee.
8. (a) Every license holder shall maintain records of log books provided by the Department of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources, relating to the catching of Live Operational Fish or Lobster, including the quantities of
catch in each such operations ; and
(b) An officer authorized in that behalf by the Director-General shall, certify the log sheets at the end of every
month and every license holder shall, submit the completed log books at the time of the renewal of the
Fishing Operation License.
9. The bottom set gill nets that could be in a boat to catch Live Ornamental Fish or Lobster shall be as follows :
(a) maximum number of net pieces shall be twenty (20) for a non motorized traditional boat (NTRB) ; and
(b) maximum number of net pieces shall be twenty five (25) for a motorized traditional boat (MTRB) and
fiberglass boats with outboard motor (OFRD)
10. License holders shall, engage in catching Live Ornamental Fish or Lobsters in South Coast (Matara and Galle
District) Fisheries Management Area during 6.00 a. m. to 6.00 p. m. only.
11. In these regulations :
“Director-General” - means Director-General appointed under Section 2 of the Fisheries and Aquatics
Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996 ;
“Fisheries Committee” - means a committee designated under Section 32 of the Fisheries and Aquatics
Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996 and published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 972/ 5 of April 25, 1997 for the purpose of catching Live Ornamental Fish or
Lobster in the South Coast (Matara and Galle District) Fisheries Management
Area ;
“License holder” - means a person who holds a license for engaging in Live Ornamental Fish or
Lobster Fishing Operations ;
“member of his family” - (i) his surviving spouse ; or
  in relation to person means
(ii) failing such surviving spouse, his son or daughter  who is more than
eighteen years of age ; or
(iii) failing such surviving spouse, son or daughter of that person, one of his
surviving parent ; or
(iv) failing such surviving spouse, son or daughter or one of his surviving
parent his brother or sister who is more than eighteen years of age.
“South Coast (Matara and - an area designated by the Order published in the Gazette Extraordinary
   Galle District) Fisheries No. 1665/8 of August 4, 2010.
  Management Area”
   means
08 -729
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.