

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
[Bill No. 130]
——————
——————
——————
A
BILL
to incorporate the Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
MINUWANGODA SINHA FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
Presented by Hon. M. Joseph Michael Perera, M. P. for Gampaha District
on October 18, 2011
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
(Published in the Gazette on September 19, 2011)
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

<!-- page 2 -->

1Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
2—PL 006232—  75 (09/2011)
Preamble.
Short title.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE MINUWANGODA SINHA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation”  has heretofore been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application.
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Minuwangoda Sinha
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.  of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as presently are the members
of the “ Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation ” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be
a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession under the name
and style of the “ Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation”  and by
that name may sue and be sued  with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to assist individuals, families and communities in
disadvantaged circumstances;
Incorporation
of the
Minuwangoda
Sinha
Foundation
.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) to assist families of workers, farmers and such other
persons which have become indigent due to loss of
employment, illness, disability, death or other
causes;
(c) to advise and assist workers who have voluntarliy
resigned, retired or returned from foreign
employment with regard to the management of their
savings or establishment of small or medium scale
enterprises;
(d) to provide counselling and assistance to families
of foreign employed workers to promote the well-
being of such families;
(e) to assist workers who have lost employment due to
closure of enterprises, retrenchment, redundancy
or other cause to engage in self-employment or
secure other employment;
(f) to provide counselling and assist workers and
families to settle problems and claims in
employment or in domestic environment;
(g) to provide counselling services for persons having
psychological difficulties;
(h) to provide or arrange to provide vocational training
and assistance to disadvantaged young persons to
engage in self-employment or to secure other
employment;
(i) to provide or assist in providing or improving
houses for families in disadvantaged circumstances;
(j) to promote public health with special emphasis on
the improvement of the nutritional status of
disadvantaged women and children;

<!-- page 4 -->

3Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(k) to take steps to discourage smoking, alcohol, drug
addiction and to rehabilitate who are subject to
such addiction;
(l) to promote the protection and improvement of the
environment;
(m) to carry out such other acts in the opinion of the
Board of Management of the Corporation as are
necessary, conducive or incidental to the attainment
of the aforesaid objects.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to —
(a) acquire, hold or take any immovable property for
the Corporation or give on lease or hire, mortgage,
pledge, sell, exchange or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable property of
the Corporation;
(b)  enter into and perform or carry out whether directly
or through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the Corporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind;
(d) advance or lend and borrow money for the
purposes of the Corporation in such a manner
and upon such security as the Corporation may
think fit;
(e) invest its funds, create and administer Trusts and to
maintain current, diposit and savings accounts in
any bank;
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) publish or cause to be published books, journals,
magazines and other literature and establish and
maintain libraries, books shops and priniting
presses;
(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over  officers and servants required for the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation and
to prescribe their terms and conditions of service
and dismiss such officer; and
(h) generally do all such other acts and things as are
necessary for and incidental or conducive to the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subjects to
the rules of the Corporation, to be made under section 6 of
this Act be administered by a Board of Management
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of the
Chairman, the Vice Chairman, the Secretary, Assistant
Secretary, the Treasure, Assistant Treasure and fifteen other
members elected or appointed in accordance with the rules
of the Corporation.
(2) The First Board of the Corporation shall be the Board
of Management of the Foundation holding office on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-third of the members present and voting to make
rules not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or
other written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) admission, withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office-bearers, the resignation
from, or vacation of or removal from, office of, office
bearers and their powers, conduct and duties ;
Rules of the
Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Seal of the
Corporation.
30
(c) the election of the members of the Board and its
powers, conduct and duties and the terms of office
of the members of the Board and the filling of
vacancies of the members of the Board ;
(d) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be observed for the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board, the times,
places, notices and agenda of such meetings, the
quorum therefore and the conduct of business
thereat ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting in like manner
as a rule may be made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules for the time being of the Corporation.
7. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and either the Secretary or the Treasurer who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence,
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
8. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Fund of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.
5
10
15
20
25
30
due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
9. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,
bequest, donations, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more banks as the
Board shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of
its powers, duties and functions under this Act.
10. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
 In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
such  institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such
institutes.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
5
10
15
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation, there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other Institute or Institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by the rules thereof  prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its members. Such Institute or
Institutes shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at or immediately before the dissolution of the
Corporation.
12. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Minuwangoda Sinha Foundation
 (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .