

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2389
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"042 – 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'10'20
No. 2,042 –  fRiday ,  OctObER  20, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 10th November, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th October, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2387-b 81218- 5,403 (10/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2388
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member	of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable	to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper,	precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor	or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2389
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
mINISTRy  Of  LANDS  AND  PARLIAmENTARy  REfORmS
Survey Department 
OPEN cOmPEtitiVE ExamiNatiON fOR REcRuitmENt tO thE POSt Of tRaNSPORt OfficER iN SRi 
LaNka tEchNOLOGicaL SERVicE which REmaiNS VacaNt iN thE SuRVEy dEPaRtmENt 
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified citizens of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination, held to 
recruit to the post of Transport Officer in Sri Lanka Technological Service which remain vacant in Survey Department. 
1.1 Posts to be recruited : 
table No. 01
Serial No. Designation Number of Vacancies to 
be filled
Grade for which 
recruitment is made
1 Transport Officer A post existing only in head office 
in colombo. Should be worked in 
the head office in Colombo during 
the entire period of service
01 Grade iii
1.2 Nature of duties of the post :
table No. 02
Serial No. Designation Nature of duty/Main Functions
1 Transport Officer * Providing of technical information required to maintain the departmental vehicles 
in good running condition. 
* Providing of recommendation and technical reports required for repairs.
* Supervision of running condition of vehicles after repairs, supervision of 
maintaining of vehicles. 
* Giving instruction to drivers.
* in case of accident immediate investigations and providing reports and condemnation 
of wrecked vehicles.
* Adjusting of vehicle to obtain environment friendly certificates.
2. the number of appointment and the date of appointment will be determined by the appointing authority. the 
appointing authority has power to fill or not to fill all or any number of vacancies. 
3. 
Salary.- the monthly salary scale entitled to this post as per the Public administration circular No. 03/2016 (mN-
3-2010) dated 25.02.2016 is Rs. 31,040-10x445 -11x660 - 10x730 -10x750 - Rs. 57,550 and you are entitled to this salary 
from 01.01.2020. Salaries will be paid to you from the date on which this appointment is implemented as per the provision 
in Schedule ii of this circular. 
4. this post is permanent. appointment is subject to 03 years probation period. Since this post is available only at 
the head office in Colombo you should serve in the head office during the entire period of service and subject to general 
conditions applicable to appointment to the public service specified at the beginning of this Gazette notification. 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2390
5. Qualifications : 
(a) 1. Educational Qualifications : 
 (a) Should have passed the G. c. E. (O/L) 
Examination in six subjects in not more than 
two sittings with credit passes for Sinhala/
tamil/English language, mathematics, Science 
and for one another subject ; 
  and
 (b) Should have passed the G. c. E. (a/L) 
Examination in three Science subjects 
in one sitting with two (02) subjects of 
combined mathematics and Physics. 
 5.2 Professional Qualifications.- having obtained 
the following professional qualifications in the 
field of mechanical.
 (a) National diploma in technology awarded 
by the university of moratuwa or hardy 
technical collage, ampara;
  or
 (b) National diploma in Engineering awarded 
by the National apprenticeship and 
industrial training authority ; 
  or
 (c) higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the ministry of Education and 
higher Education ; 
  or
 (d) diploma in technology awarded by the 
Open university of Sri Lanka ;
  or
 (e) Successful completion of part 01 of the 
Engineering examination conducted by the 
Sri Lanka institute of engineering ; 
  or
 (f) Completion of qualifications in level 06 of 
National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) 
relevant to the field of employment ; 
  or
 (g) Having obtained other qualifications 
recognized by the tertiary and V ocational 
Education commission as being equivalent 
in all respect to the technological 
qualifications mentioned above after 
obtaining views of the institutions such 
as ministry of higher Education and the 
Institutions by which the above certificates 
issued. 
 5.3 Physical fitness.- all candidates should be 
physically fit adequate to serve in any part of 
Sri Lanka and to carry out duties in the post. 
 5.4 Other qualifications :
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (b) Should be of excellent character,
 (c) the minimum age should be 18 years and 
maximum age should be 30 years as at the 
closing date of application. 
Note.- It is deemed qualified to sit the competitive 
examinations for appointment to the service if the 
applicant has fulfilled all necessary qualifications 
and the prescribed age limit as at the date 
stipulated in notification of calling for application 
in all respect. 
6. Furnishing False Information.- if a candidate is found 
not to have required qualification to sit this examination his/
her candidature can be cancelled before the examination or 
duration of the examination, or after the examination or at 
any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate 
is found to be false within his/her knowledge or if he/she 
has willfully suppressed by material fact he/she will be 
liable to dismissal from the public service. 
7. examination procedure.- the examination is a written 
test consisting of two subjects. this examination will be 
held in Sinhala, tamil and English mediums. the medium 
applied will not be allowed to change subsequently. 
Maximum 
marks 
obtainable
Minimum 
percentage of 
marks required 
for a pass
01. intelligence test 100% 40%
02. Subject related 
technical paper
100% 40%
 7.1 Syllabus : 
 01. intelligence test :
  consist of Questions to Judge the logical 
thinking, analytical thinking and ability of 
decision making of the candidate : 
 02. Subject related technical Paper :
 * mathematics,
 * algebra (in equation, variables, Grades, 
logarithm),

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2391
 * trigonometry (Solving of Equation, 
triangles),
 * Statistics (mean, mode, Standard deviation, 
probability). 
  Physics 
  Lights and Optics (Reflection and Refraction 
: mirrors, curved Surfaces, Prism, Lenses 
and formulas of Optics, microscope and 
telescope. 
  Newtonian mechanics (scalars and Vectors, 
Newton's Law of motion, momentum)
  miscellaneous topics 
  introduction to geography (shape of the 
earth, topography etc.)
  the angle view of solid substances and 
derivation of projections. maps produced by 
the Survey department. 
8. Selection procedure :
 8.1 Number of candidates equal to the number to be 
filled, of the candidates who obtained the highest 
marks of a written examination conducted by the 
Surveyor General, will be recruited firstly in the 
order of merits and secondly on the options to 
the post indicate in the application. 
 8.2 an interview will be held to ascertain whether 
the qualifications have been fulfilled and no 
marks will be given for the interview. 
9. Recruitment.- Recruitments will be made to the grade 
iii of the Sri Lanka technological Service. 
10. Preparation and Submission of Application : 
 01. the application should be prepared by the 
applicant himself using both sides of a 21x29 (a4) 
paper as per the specimen application appearing at 
the end of this notice. No. 01-06 should be on page 
01, No. 07- 9.2 on page 02, No. 9.3-13 on page 03, 
No. 14-15 on page 04 of the application. 
 02. candidates who are already employed in Public 
or Provincial Public Services should forward their 
applications through their heads of departments, 
candidates who are employed in public 
corporations and local government bodies etc. 
should forward their applications through their 
heads of institutions on or before the due date. 
 03. applications should be in the language in which 
the candidates are eligible to sit the examination. 
 04. Certified copies of certificates of causes of which 
your Professional Qualifications are confirmed 
should be sent with the application. 
 05. applications which are not complying with the 
specimen form, examination fees have not been 
paid, of improper filling, will be rejected without 
any notice. candidates should bear consequences 
of improper filling of applications. It would be 
useful to retain a photocopy of the application. 
It is responsibility of the candidate to find out 
whether the completed application complies 
with the application specified in the notice. If not 
application will be rejected. 
 06. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. 
complaints for any loss of applications in the post 
will not be considered. 
N. B.- changing of examination center applied to sit the 
examination will not be allowed subsequently. 
 10.1 On the presumption that only the candidates 
who have qualifications specified in Gazette 
notification have applied, Surveyor General will 
allow all candidates who have paid specified 
examination fees and submitted application on or 
before 20.11.2017 to sit the examination. issuing 
of admission card shall not be deemed as the 
applicant possesses qualifications to the post or to 
sit the examination. candidature of the applicant 
will be cancelled if it is found at the time of 
interview that the applicant does not possess the 
requirement for this post. 
 10.2 the envelope containing the application should 
be clearly marked "Recruitment to the post of 
Transport Officer in Sri Lanka Technological 
Service" on the top left hand corner.
 10.3 the signature of the applicant in the application 
should be certified by a principal of a government 
school/Justice of the Peace/c ommissioner of 
Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Commissioned Officer 
in the Army/an officer in police service hold a 
Gazetted post or an officer who hold a permanent 
post in the public service in tertiary or senior level 
in terms of the grading of Public Service circular 
No. 06/2006.
11. examination Fee.- Examination fee is Rs. 800. this 
fee should be paid at the cashier of the Surveyor General 
Office in No. 150, Kirula Road, Colombo 05 or at any 
of District Survey Office or at institute of Surveying and 
mapping - diyathalawa. the receipt should be pasted in 
the relevant cage in the application form. (it is advisable 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2392
to keep a photocopy of the receipt with applicant). the fee is not refundable in any circumstance and money orders and 
cheques will not be accepted. applications without cash receipts will be rejected. 
12. Submission of application.- completed application should be sent by registered post to reach to the following 
address on or before 20th November 2017 : 
Surveyor General, 
Survey department, 
No. 150, kirula Road, 
Narahenpita, 
colombo. 
13. Appearing for the examination.- Every candidate should hand over their admission card to the supervisor of 
the Examination centre. a candidate who fails to hand over his admission card will not be permitted to sit the examination. 
the candidate should sit the examination at the examination hall assigned to him. 
14. Identity of candidate.- candidates should prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the 
supervisor for each paper they sit. any of the following documents will be accepted for their purpose :
 01. the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of persons, 
 02. the valid postal identity card issued by the post master general. 
 03. a  valid passport. 
15. Any matter not specified here will be determined by the Surveyor General. All applicants shall be bound to 
act in terms of the general rules and regulations of examination specified in this Gazette notification. 
 P. m. P. 
Udayakantha, 
 Surveyor General. 
Survey department, 
colombo 05, 
26th September, 2017. 
Specimen application Form 
open competitive examination For recrUitment to the poSt oF tranSport oFFicer in Sri lanka technological Service 
which remain v acant in the SUrvey department
 For office use only
01.  Name of the Examination centre applied to sit the examination : 
 colombo 
 diyathalawa
 anuradhapura
 indicate mark " P" in the relevant cage of the centre, the applicant intends to sit for the examination and indicate 
mark "x" in other two cages. 
02. medium of examination : 
 (Sinhala - S, tamil - t, English - E)
 (indicate the letter/code in given cages)

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2393
03. Name with initials (mr./mrs./miss) :
 in Sinhala :––––––––––––.
 in English :––––––––––––.
04. National identity card No. : 
05. date of birth :  date   month  y ear
   05.1 age as at the closing date of application :  days   months      years
06. Gender : (male - m,  female - f)
07. Permanent address (in legible letters) :––––––––––––.
   07.1 administrative district to which address belongs : 
    district No. :    Name of the district : 
   07.2 date from which the applicant is resident in the district : 
08. telephone No. : 
 Resident :
 mobile :
09. 
Educational Qualifications : 
   09.1 details of G. c. E. Ordinary Level Examination : 
    1st attempt
    01. y ear and month of the examination  :––––––––––––.
    02. index No.  :––––––––––––.
    03. Subjects passed : 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
 *mention subjects, starting with the highest grade obtained. 
   09.2 details of G. c. E. Ordinary Level Examination : 
    2nd attempt 
    01. y ear and month of the examination  :––––––––––––.
    02. index No.  :––––––––––––.
    03. Subjects passed : 
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
 *mention subjects, starting with the highest grade obtained. 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2394
   09.3 details of G. c. E. advanced Level Examination : 
    1. y ear and month of the Examination  :––––––––––––.
    2. index No.  :––––––––––––.
    3. Subjects passed :
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
10. Professional Qualifications : 
   (i)  ––––––––––––––––––––––.
   (ii)  ––––––––––––––––––––––.
11. have you ever been convicted in a court of law for any offence : 
   y es    No
   11.1 if yes give details. :––––––––––––.
12. details of receipt which the examination fees paid : 
   (i) Office at which the payment made  :––––––––––––.
   (ii) Receipt No. and date  :––––––––––––.
   (iii) amount paid :
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
13. Certificate of the candidate : 
 (a) i declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and correct to the best of my 
knowledge.
 (b) I am aware that if this declaration made by me is found to be wrong, I would be considered unfit for the 
appointment and if it is found after the appointment, i would be liable to dismissal from the service.
 (c) the cash receipt obtained for the payment of .......................... has been pasted in relevant cage. 
 (d) further, i declare that i agree to comply with the rules and regulations laid down by the Surveyor General 
in respect of the examination. 
 (e) i shall not subsequently change any of the particulars mention here. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
date  :––––––––––––.
14. 
Certification of signature of the Applicant : 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss ................................. who is submitting the application is personally known to me 
and that he/she placed his/her signature under the Section 13, in my presence.
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of attester. 
date  :––––––––––––.
Name of the attester  :––––––––––––.
designation  :––––––––––––.
address  :––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2395
15. Recommendation of the head of the department (Only for the applicant who are in Public/Provincial Public Service) :
 15.1 According to the personal file of the officer, during the five years immediately prior to the closing date of 
application.
  w ork, behavior, attendance satisfactory/unsatisfactory
  all salary increments have been earned/have not been earned
  has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary action
 15.2 If selected to the post applied for, this officer can be/cannot be released from the post he holds at present. 
the application is recommended/not recommended. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the head of the department.
 Official stamp. 
date :––––––––––––––.
ScheDule 01
this Schedule is relevant to the administrative districts to which address belongs on No. 8.1 of the application. 
 Town/District Name Town/District No. 
 1. colombo 01
 2. Gampaha 02
 3. kaluthara 03
 4. kandy 04
 5. matale 05
 6. Nuwara Eliya 06
 7. Galle 07
 8. matara 08
 9. hambanthota 09
 10. kurunegala 10
 11. Puttalam  11
 12. anuradhapura 12
 13. Polonnaruwa 13
 14. badulla 14
 15. monaragala 15
 16. Rathnapura 16
 17. kegalle 17
 18. ampara 18
 19. batticaloa 19
 20. t rincomalee 20
 21. Jaffna 21
 22. Vavuniya 22
10-527
––––––––––––––––––
fIRST  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  fOR  OffICERS  IN  SRI  LANkA  ADmINISTRATIvE  
SERvICE,  SRI  LANkA  ENGINEERING  SERvICE,  SRI  LANkA  SCIENTIfIC SERvICE, 
SRI  LANkA  ARChITECTS' SERvICE,  SRI LANkA ACCOuNTANTS' SERvICE AND SRI LANkA 
PLANNING SERvICE -  2017 (I) AND SECOND EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR OffICERS IN 
SRI LANkA ADmINISTRATIvE SERvICE, SRI LANkA ACCOuNTANTS' SERvICE AND SRI LANkA 
PLANNING SERvICE - 2017(II)
it is hereby notified that First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri 
Lanka Planning Service 2017(I) and Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative 

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2396
Service, Sri Lanka accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service - 2017(II), shall be held in colombo during 
weekends from 11.11.2017 to 10.12.2017, by the director General, Sri Lanka institute of development administration, 
under the supervision and direction of ministry of Public administration and management. 
02. The language test relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examinations which is due to be held in respect of the above 
services shall be as follows: 
 Serial  Name of the examination  code  
 No.      
 1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative  Service SLAS 1 
 2  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering  Service SLES 
 3  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service  SLSS 
 4  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service SLArS 
 5  1st  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service SLAcS I
 6 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service  SLPS I
 7 Other services which can be applied for the above examination Other
 8 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative  Service SLAS 2
 9 2nd  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service SLAcS 2
 10 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service  SLPS 2
    
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is 
compulsory to pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period. 
04. this examination shall be conducted by the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development 
administration and the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to conducting 
the examination. candidates shall be subjected to any punishment imposed by the disciplinary authority for violation of 
these rules and regulations. 
05. applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk.  the official web site of 
the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. It is possible to commence the filling of application by selecting 
the relevant examination from the sub menu “apply Online” at the Right side of web site’s main page. 
filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 20.10.2017 up to 12.00 midnight 
on 06.11.2017. 
06. examination Fees .– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not to pay the 
examination fees. at such occasions where a candidate, who has made application, has not sat for the examination even 
after issuing an admission by Sri Lanka institute of development administration that should be considered as a sitting 
for the examination. 
Officers who sat for the examination previously, should pay examination fee as follows.
Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service 
should pay the examination fee considering that the first Examination bar Examination as one Examination and Second 
Efficiency Bar examination as another examination. Accordingly, Rs. 1,000 should be paid if it is applied for more than 
one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 1,000 should be paid if it is applied for more than one subject of 
the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. Rs. 500 should be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the First Efficiency 
Bar Examination and Rs. 500 should be paid if it is applied only for one subject of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination. 
The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects' Service 
should pay Rs. 1,000, if they applying for more than one subject of the First Efficiency Bar Examination and Rs. 500 
should be paid, if they are sitting for only one subject.  

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2397
Examination fee shall be paid by credit card via website www.slida.lk or by any post office call over the island 
(expect sub post offices). It paid by a post office the payment should be credited to the "SLIDA" account and the number 
of the receipt issued shall be indicated in the relevant cages of the application. When filling the application for inland 
telegraphic money order (format 85) for payment of money to 'SLida' account, "SLida" should be mentioned as the 
recipient. in the meantime, the code name of the relevant examination shall be indicated at the place for the recipient's 
address. (the code names should be as mentioned in section 02).
Further, when crediting money to the account, the application shall be filled including the name of the applicant 
as the remitter and the N.i.c. Number of the applicant at the space for the address of the remitter. 
07. Getting Admission for First Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service, Sri Lanka Architects' Service, Sri Lanka Accountants' Service and 
Sri Lanka Planning Service and Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka Administrative Service, Sri Lanka 
accountants' Service and Sri Lanka Planning Service. 
When the application filled online is submitted, the candidate will be issued a confirmation number and the 
candidate shall keep it for further inquiries. candidates shall be able to get their admission card of the examination by way 
of following the instructions indicated in the web page to which the candidate shall have the access once the application 
duly perfected is sent online. The candidate shall get a printed copy of the admission card and get his signature certified 
by the respective Head of the Department or a deputy officer authorized by the Head for the purpose. The admission card 
certified in this manner shall be submitted to the Supervisor of the examination. A copy of admission card certified as 
for that manner shall be submitted to the heads of the departments for the purpose of attaching to the personal file of the 
candidates. 
Note.– The private address, place of work and the official address shall be clearly included when filling the 
application online. 
08. Any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications can be obtained through the Telephone 
Number 011 - 5980236 of Sri Lanka institute of development administration. communication can be made through this 
line from 8.30 a.m up to 4.15 p.m during working days of the week from 20.10.2017 to 06.11.2017.
09. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit 
for the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number 
011- 5980236. candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination. 
10. Identity of candidates.– candidates shall be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. for this purpose, one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i)  the National identity card issued by the department of Registration of  Persons. 
 (ii)  a valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the 
discretion of the director General of Sri Lanka institute of development administration. 
11. the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English media. if it is found that a candidate has appeared 
for the examination in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant shall be cancelled.  
a candidate shall not be permitted to change the language medium indicated in the application form.
12. Scheme of examination .– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows. 
duration of each question paper is three (03  hours). at least forty (40) marks shall be obtained for each subject by a 
candidate to pass this Efficiency Bar Examination.
 12.1  1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service : (Appendix "G" of 
Sri Lanka administrative Service minute published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,842/2 dated 
23.12.2013) 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2398
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 
  The subjects of the 1st Efficiency Bar Examination are given below : 
  Serial  Subjects   Duration  Subject 
  Number     Number 
01  Law constitutional  Law  and  03 hours  01 -i
  administrative Law    
    the Legal Systems of Sri Lanka  03 hours  01 -ii
   criminal Law & Law of Evidence  03 hours  01-iii 
02 administration   03 hours  02-i
03  Economics and Social Science 03 hours  03 
04  financial management and procurement procedure in the  03 hours  04
 public sector 
12.1.1 Law
  three question papers based on the following: 
  first (1) question paper -
  Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01-1) (100 marks)
 
 (i) the structure of the constitution of Sri Lanka and the Republic constitution of 1978 with the 
historical development.
 (ii) the Executive, President of the Republic, Prime minister, cabinet of ministers and Public Service. 
 (iii) administration of Justice. 
 (iv) Judicial control over administration. 
 (v) directive Principles of the State Policy and fundamental duties. 
 (vi) delegated Legislation.
 (vii) Liability of the State and the Public authorities. 
 (viii) fundamental Rights.
  Second (II) question paper -
  The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 01-11) (100 marks)
 (i)  administration of Justice
 (ii) the Legal history of Sri Lanka 
 (iii)  The Organization of the Courts 
 (iv)  the courts Ordinance of Sri Lanka (chapter 6) 
 (v)  administration of Justice act, No. 44 of 1971
  Third (III) question paper -
  Criminal Law and Law of Evidence (Subject No. 01-III) (100 marks)
 (i)  the Penal code 
 (ii)  the Evidence Ordinance. 
A candidate shall be required to obtain a minimum of thirty five (35%) of marks in each paper and an 
average of forty percent (40%) in order to pass the subject of law. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2399
12.1.2. administration (Subject No. 02-i -100 marks) 
  a  question paper based on the following: 
 (i)  Office and Field Organization and Methods of organization.
 (ii)  following chapters of the Establishment code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, ix, xi, xxiii, xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, 
xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii and xLViii). Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission.
 12.1.3.  Economics and Sociology (Subject No. 03 - 100 marks) 
   this question paper consists of two parts.
   first (1) part - Economics
 (i)  Principles of Economics with special reference to theories of Value, Production and distribution; 
 (ii)  money, Production and distribution
 (iii)  Economic background of Sri Lanka and policies, strategies and programmes relevant to economic 
development with special reference to the Economic Structure of Sri Lanka. 
  Second (II) part - Sociology
 (i)  Social Structure, Organization and Functions; 
 (ii)  human Relationships and Groupings; 
 (iii)  kinship, marriage and the family; 
 (iv)  Rural and urban Society; 
 (v)  Social Stratification and Differentiations; 
 (vi)  Social control; 
 (vii)  culture, Religion, morals and Values. 
a candidate shall be required to obtain at least twenty (20) marks for each part to pass the 
subject of Economics and Sociology. 
12.1.4. financial management and procurement procedure in the public sector (Subject No. 04 - 
   100 marks)  
   a  question paper based on the following :-
   (i) financial control in Sri Lanka :
     constitutional Provisions Relating to the management of Public finance
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     meaning of fund 
     the consolidated fund and its operation 
     meaning and methods of appropriation 
     contingencies fund 
     Other funds and their Operation                
     Government Revenue 
     Powers and functions of the minister of finance 
     Powers and functions of the treasury 
     warrants and imprest authority 
     auditor General, his Powers and functions 
     committee on Public accounts (cOPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (cOPE)
   (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting  
  Officers, their Powers and Functions/accountability and nature of accountability.
   (iii) internal audit 
   (iv) Public Expenditure Planning and management; 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2400
     Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
     Identification of Public Policies, Goals Targets and work Programmes 
     Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and  Prioritization of 
      them 
     Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure.
   (v)  Variations of approved Estimates of Expenditure
     application of Virement Procedure
     management of Public Sector cadres and Salaries 
     total cost Estimates and Revisions 
     Supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and waivers of government properties 
   (vii)  miscellaneous accounting matters 
   (viii)  delegation of functions for financial control 
   (ix)  custody of Public money and bank accounts Procedure 
   (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
     Government Procurement manual
     Government Procurement Guidelines
12.2  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service (Schedule "iii" of Sri 
Lanka Engineering Service minute, published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1836/6 dated 11.11.2013).
 The Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
  Serial No. Subject Duration Subject Number
  01 administration 03 hours 02-ii
  02 financial Systems 03 hours 05-i
  03 department/Establishment methodologies Since this examination is conducted by the  
   head of the institution, particulars in this   
   regard are not published in this notification. 
the minimum marks required to pass each subject is 40.
12.2.1  Administration (Subject No. 02-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on v olume I of 
the Establishments Code published in 1985 and all the chapters in V olume ii of the Establishments 
code published in 1999 and the Procedural Rules of Public Service commission (subjected to timely 
revisions).
 12.2.2 financial systems (Subject No. - 05-I - 100 marks)
  a  question paper prepared in relation to the functions of Engineering Service based on all the 
chapters in financial Regulations published in 1992 except chapter ix and x and criteria for National 
Procurement Guidelines (subjected to timely revisions).
12.3  First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
Scientific Service minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/27 dated 28.08.2014) and 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2401
 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Architects' Service (Appendix 4 of Sri Lanka 
architects' Service minute, published in the Gazette extraordinary No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014).
 Subjects of these examinations are as follows :
    Subject Duration Subject Number
    financial Systems 03 hours 05-ii
    administration 03 hours 02-iii
    department Regulations Since this examination is conducted by the  
   head of the institution, particulars in this   
   regard are not published in this notification.
 12.3.1 financial Systems (Subject No. 05-II - 100 marks)
  a  question paper based on the following : 
   (i) financial control in Sri Lanka :
     constitutional Provisions Relating to Public financial management 
     Parliamentary control over Public finance  
     Definition of Fund 
     consolidated fund and its function
     Object and methodologies of appropriation 
     contingent fund 
     Other funds and their functions                
     State Revenue
     Powers and role of the finance minister
     Powers and role of the General treasury
     warrants and imprest authority 
     Powers and role of the auditor General 
     committee on Public accounts (cOPa)
     committee on Public Enterprises (cOPE)
 (ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers on State Revenue, their 
powers and role/accountability and the nature of their responsibilities.
 (iii) internal audit 
   (iv) Planning and management of Public Expenditure : 
     Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions 
     Identification of Public Policies, objectives, Targets and Programmes
     Planning of Development Projects and Programmes and Prioritizing the evaluation
     Preparation of annual estimate on income and expenditure and taking final decisions. 
   (v)  making changes of approved Estimates :
     implementation of Virement Procedure
     management of cadre and salaries of public sector
     total cost Estimates and making Revisions to the same 
     Supplementary Estimates 
   (vi)  Losses and omissions of state properties
   (vii)  Various accounting activities
   (viii)  Entrusting tasks for financial management 
   (ix)  custody of Public finance and Procedure of bank accounts

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2402
   (x)  Government Procurement Process, 
     code of Procurement Procedure Government
     Procurement Guidelines of the Government
   Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject.
 12.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 02-III - 100 marks)
  a  question paper is based on the following. 
 (i) following chapters of the Establishments code
  chapters i, ii, iii, V , Vi, Vii, ix, xi, xxiii, xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, 
xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii and xLViii. 
 (ii) Procedural Rules of Public Service commission published in the Gazette extraordinary             
No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009.
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
12.4 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers of Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : (The appendix 
03 of the Service minute of Sri Lanka accountants' Service published on the Gazette extraordinary 
dated 10.09.2010 and No. 1670/33)
  The officers in Sri Lanka accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 
 Subjects of the First Efficiency bar Examination are as follows : 
 Serial No.   Subject  Duration (Hours) Subject No.
01. Government financial Procedures 03 hours 06
02. Law and management 03 hours 07
03. administration 03 hours 02-iV
04. Report writing and Presenting information to management 03 hours 08
 12.4.1 Government financial Regulations (Subject No. 06) (100 marks) :
  candidates will be tested on the application of financial Regulations and treasury circulars in 
government transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate to revenue, expenditure, 
foreign aid, annual and supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders, imprests and 
advances, financial sanctions, the account of the Island, functional and economic classifications, 
programme and performance budgeting, functions of the minister of finance. the General 
treasury, the ministry of Planning, the Secretaries, the auditor General and the Public accounts 
committee. 
 12.4.2 Law and management (Subject No. 07) (100 marks)
Law - Definition of Law
  Legal Systems of Sri Lanka
  courts Systems of Sri Lanka
  Law of contract
  Law of agency
  Sale of goods

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2403
  hire purchase
  Negotiable instruments
  Guarantee of Securities
  insurance
management - introduction to management
  functions and skills of managers
  Planning process and setting organizational levels
  Organization Structure 
  human resource management
  Peformance evaluation 
  Promotion
  motivation
  Leadership
  communication
  decision making
  Conflict resolution
  Change Management Conflicts Management Time Management
  Quality circles and Production and Result
  management ethics and responsibilities
 12.4.3 administration : (Subject No. : 02-iV) (100 marks) 
  chapters of the Establishments code Vii, ix, xi, xii, xV , xxiii, xxV , xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, 
xxix, xxx, xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii, xLViii.
  Public Service commission rules and procedure V olume i-Vi.
 12.4.4 Report writing and presenting information to the management (Subject No. 08) (100 marks)
  importance of accura cy, of timeliness and of perfection of management information, dealing
  with reference information
  Periodic and ad-hoc reports
  w riting minutes of meetings and notes
  Structure of management reports
  important results that should be highlighted 
  interpretation of results
  Suggesting variations
  use of statistical name systems in data analysis
  comparison of performance
  use of ratios and percentages in management reports
  diagrammatic representation
  Listening to professional talks and lectures
  Reporting lectures through speech
  Panel discussions
  Seminar abilities
  delivering a speech
Note.– the candidate shall be requried to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject to pass. 
12.5 First Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service : (The appendix 
c Service minute of the Sri Lanka Planning Service published on the Gazette extraordinary dated 
10.09.2010 and No. 1670/32).
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2404
 Subjects of the First Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows : 
 Serial No. Subject Duration (Hour) Subject No. 
01 Planning concepts, methodology and Planning institutions 03 09
02 Economic analysis and statistics 03 10
03 Project Planning, implementation monitoring and Evaluation 03 11
04 institutional Regulations and Public Sector financial methods 03 12
05 English Language 03 13
 12.5.1 the examination should be passed within the prescribed time period as per the provisions in 
the Service Minute and the Letter of Appointment and an officer is allowed to appear for all the 
papers at one sitting or different sittings for each subject. 
Scheme of examination : 
 12.5.2 Planning concepts, methodology and Planning Institutions (Subject No. 09) (100 marks)
 (i) National objectives and priorities and planning policy framework and programmes for their 
achievement. 
 (ii) methodology for National Planning, major problem areas in planning, public participation 
and mobilization of resources etc.
 (iii) Nature and sources of data for National Planning, collection of data, presentation of 
interpretation and analysis, field supervision and investigations demographic concepts, 
economic projections and policy analysis. 
 12.5.3 Economic Analysis and Statistics (Subject No. 10) (100 marks)
 (i) Principles of economics with special emphasis on the theories of production and distribution. 
 (ii) finance, banking Systems, international financial methods and trade.
 (iii) analysis of monetary, monetary trade and tariff Policies.
 (iv) Economic structure of Sri Lanka.
 (v) Review of the Economy.
 (vi) assessment of technically skilled and unskilled manpower and other resources including 
foreign aid and their utilization. 
 (vii) Economics and Social incidents.
 (viii) Economic analysis and basis statistical concepts and methods used in Planning.
 (ix) Principles of Benefit/Cost Analysis.
 12.5.4 Project Planning, Implementation, Supervision and monitoring (Subject No. 11) (100 marks)
 (i) Planning, Identification and defining Projects and Project Planning Policies, theories, 
selection of location, Estimation of technology and cost and benefits, Technical, financial 
and economic analysis.
 (ii) Project implementation and operation/supervision, proper and timely implementation of 
projects and programmes, preparation of detailed operational plans and implementation 
schedules, coordination of monitoring and progress control and follow up action. 
 (iii) Evaluation of projects, assessment of effectiveness of projects and programmes analysis of 
benefits in relation to costs. 
 12.5.5 Institution Regulations and financial methods of the Public Sector (Subject No. 12)  
(100 marks)
 (i) Government financial Regulations, V olume 1 (except chapter x)
 (ii) chapters Vii, ix, xi, xii, xV, xxiii, xxV, xxVi, xxVii, xxViii, xxix, xxx, xxxi, 
xxxii, xxxiii, xLVii, xLViii chapters i to Vi of the Public Service commission 
procedure and rules. 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2405
 (iii) financial control of Sri Lanka.– Statutory Provisions relating to Public finance management, 
Parliamentary control over Public finance, consolidated fund and its operation. aim of 
appropriation and appropriation methods, State revenue, powers and function of minister 
of finance, powers and the function of the treasury, warrant and imprest authority, auditor 
General, his powers and function, Public Expenditure committee, Public Enterprises 
committee. 
 (iv) Appointment of Accounting Officers, Chief Accounting Officers and Accounting officers of 
State Revenue their powers and function. 
 (v) Planning and Management of State Expenditure, Identification of Objectives and Functions 
of Organizations, Preparation of Annual Estimates and Expenditure and taking final 
decisions, Effecting changes in the approved Estimates of Expenditure, implementation of 
Virement Procedure, management of cadres in the Public Sector, Supplementary Estimates. 
 (vi) Government Procurement Procedure.- Procuring Goods, Services and work, composition 
of tender boards and technical Evaluation committees, Powers and function of 
appointment, tender Evaluation Procedure, management of foreign funded projects. 
 12.5.6 English Language (Subject No. 13) (100 marks)
 (i) a  written examination in English Language will be held to test the academic and professional 
knowledge of English of candidates in relation to subject of Planning development and 
management. 
 12.6 Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service : (Appendix 
"h" of the Service minute of Sri Lanka administrative Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary              
No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 
  the subjects for this examination are as follows :
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 Economic and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri 
Lanka)
03 hours 14
02 Process of development administration (w ith special 
reference to Sri Lanka)
03 hours 15
03 use of information and communication technology for 
management
03 hours 16
04 Proficiency in the link langauge 03 hours 17
 12.6.1 Economic and social policies (with special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 14) (100 marks)
  this question paper is based on matters affecting the formulation of economic and social policies 
using principles of Economics and Social Sciences in the context of recent economic, social and 
political history of Sri Lanka.
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2406
 12.6.2 Process of development administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 15) 
(100 marks)
  this question paper is based on the functioning and inter-relationships of institutions entrusted 
with the responsibility of development administration with special reference to matters mentioned 
below :
 (i) State machinery of Sri Lanka,
 (ii) constitutional background of the state machinery of Sri Lanka,
 (iii) Provincial councils and local government institutions,
 (iv) People's organizations,
 (v) Public corporations.
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.6.3 use of information and communication technology for management (Subject No. 16) (100 marks)
  this is a practical test conducted by the Sri Lanka institute of development administration to test 
the knowledge of the applicant on following subject areas. 
 (i) importance of the use of information and communication technology for state institutes,
 (ii) data analysis and preparation of reports,
 (iii) data base management and retrieval of information,
 (iv) use of information and communication technology in project management,
 (v) Preparation of management information systems.
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.6.4 Proficiency in English Language (Subject No. 17) (100 marks)
  Scheme of Evaluation : written Examination 
  content : the following subject areas are suggested for the candidate's reference :
  communication Skills 
  the candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following language 
functions.
  – General Greetings and introductions
  – Giving and getting information
  – advising, suggesting and expressing opinions
  – telephone Skills
  – interviewing Skills
  – Expression Skills
  – Listening and Note taking Skills
  writing Skills
  the knowledge of the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study. 
  – internal modes of communication
  – formal correspondence Skills
  – writing descriptions/Explanations
  – Grammar
  – Summary writing Skills
  – Report writing Skills
  – meeting minutes/agendas/invitations
  comprehension Skills
  candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written 
interpretation is expected.
  – Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text
  – Reading and interpretation (verbal/written)
  – understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage
  

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2407
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.7 Second Efficiency Bar examination for officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service : 
  (appendix 04 of the Service minute of Sri Lanka accountants' Service published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 1670/33 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Accountants' Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall 
be eligible to sit for this examination. 
  The subjects for the second efficiency bar examination are as follows : 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 management accountancy 03 hours 18
02 Public financial management 03 hours 19
03 Management and organization 03 hours 20
 12.7.1 management accountancy (Subject No. 18) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  control theory on accounting - feedback - open and closed. types of ideal standard costs, 
principles of performance standards and their application, revision of standards, learning circles 
and determination of motivation, analysis of variations and sub variations, analysis of significance, 
presentation and investigation of variances, behavioral aspects of control accounting, concepts 
of budgeting, administration of budgetary contral, the budget manual, fixed and flexible budgets, 
master and supplementary budgets, budget centers, management participation, intervention and 
motivation in the preparation of budgets, the budget period and identification of the principal 
budget factor. 
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for the subject. 
 12.7.2 Public financial management (Subject No. 19) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  Role of the Government accountant.
  Knowledge of Constitutional and Legal Framework of public finance Institutional framework, 
central government, Public corporations, Local Government institutions, co-operative 
movements etc.
  Parliamentary control, functions of the treasury, ministry of Planning, Estimates committee, 
auditor General, Public accounts committee, consolidated fund, Problems of Parliamentary 
control. 
  financial circle, Preparation of Planning programmes, Preparations of budget, approval of funds, 
accounting, reporting, monitoring and auditing. 
  Project evaluation, Service prices and use of statistical data, payment theory and deciding on the 
anticipated value. 
  Cost benefit analysis, discounted cash flow, internal effective ratio, project ranking, economic, 
financial and management aspects of project formulation and evaluation, successful submission 
of projects. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2408
  t echniques of programming, use of network analysis, allocation of resources, problems of 
transport, deterioration of resources due to usage or with the passage of time, replacement of 
resources which do not deteriorate but become useless due to partial usage or due to passage of 
time, performance budgets, Establishment and use of basic methods, measurement of performance, 
types of measurements, selection of units and measurements, types of measurements and analysis 
of performance. 
  Programme budgeting, programme structure, classifications according to functions, programme 
work, expenditure projects and expenditure items, economics and activity related classification. 
  Financial control systems, level of responsibilities, internal control and financial regulations, 
itnernal audit, performance auditing, management auditing, variance analysis, decisions on 
providing capital budgets, long term planning and it's importance, forecasting, risk analysis of 
accuracy and limitations, decision trees, probability factors. 
  demand on capital, issues in estimating earnings and effectiveness of capital investments identify 
and allocate for risk factors when prioritize and standardize projects. Pay back determinants, 
calculating of accounting rate of return, net present value and DCF yields, influence of taxation 
and incentives, investment appraisal, Project cost control and post audit. 
  decisions on capacities, product mix, make or buy, alternative methods of manufacture, shut 
down problems, pricing policies and contribution theory, influence of customer demand, patterns, 
elasticity of demand, marketing strategy, techniques of evaluation of performance, profitability 
criteria and ratios. 
  analysis of return on capital, management of working capital. 
  financial control of government commercial enterprises, budgeting, management reporting, 
interpretation of financial statements and the use of financial ratios. 
  Pricing in Public Enterprises : 
  accounting plan and its contents, government reports and public undertakings. 
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.7.3 Management and Organization (Subject No. 20) Question paper - duration 03 hours (100 marks)
  candidates are not allowed to select questions on their preference. 
  questions will be set to test the knowledge of the candidate on management and principles of 
organization, use of these principles with regard to the problems and issues in the public sector 
and the knowledge on new management strategies and techniques. 
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 12.8 Second  Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service : 
  (appendix "d" of the Service minute of Sri Lanka Planning Service published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 1670/32 dated 10.09.2010)
  The officers in Sri Lanka Planning Service, who have not completed this examination so far, shall be 
eligible to sit for this examination. 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2409
 12.8.1 The second efficiency bar examination shall consist of the following subjects. 
Serial No. Subject Duration Subject No.
01 techniques of development Planning 03 hours 21
02 basic macro Economics 03 hours 22
03 current international Economic and Political crises and 
their impact on the Sri Lankan Economy
03 hours 23
 12.8.2 it is compulsory to answer all the questions in a question paper. 
  Syllabus :
 i. development Planning techniques (Subject No. 21) (100 marks)
 (i) SwOt analysis
 (ii) Problem tree
 (iii) Logical framework analysis
 (iv) Cost benefit analysis
 (v) Pay back method
 (vi) Net present value
 (vii) internal rate of return
 (viii) application of shadow price. 
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject. 
 ii. basic macro Economics (Subject No. 22) (100 marks)
 (i) National accounts
 (ii) Rate of Economic Growth
 (iii) balanced National Revenue
 (iv) multiplier effect
 (v) Inflation
 (vi) Rate of interest
 (vii) an introduction to Public fiscal Policy
 (viii) an introduction to fiscal Policy
 (ix) business circle
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
 iii. current international Economic crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy (Subject No. 23) 
(100 marks) 
  current international Economic crises and their impact on Sri Lankan Economy.
  (answers have to be given on topics which have a timely relevance to emerging world economic 
conditions)
  Note.– the candidate shall be required to obtain at least 40% marks for this subject.
13. the time table of this examination is as follows :  
SR. 
No.
Name of the 
examination
Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
01
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service
constitutional Law and 
administrative Law
01-i 11.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 01-ii 11.11.2017 12.30 p. m. -3.30 p. m.
criminal Law and Evidence Law 01-iii 12.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-i 12.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m. 
Economics and Sociology 03 25.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
financial management in the public 
sector and procurement process 
04 25.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m. 

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2410
SR. 
No.
Name of the 
examination
Subject Subject 
No.
Date Time
02
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
Engineering Service
financial Systems 05-i 12.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-ii 12.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
03
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Scientific 
Service
financial Systems 05-ii 12.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-iii 12.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
04
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka architects' 
Service
financial Systems 05-ii 12.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
administration 02-iii 12.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
05
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ Service
Government financial Regulations 06 18.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Law and management 07 18.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
administration 02-iV 19.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Report writing and Presenting 
information to management
08 19.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
06
1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Planning 
Service
Planning concepts, methodology 
and Planning institutions
09 18.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Economic analysis and statistics 10 18.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
Project Planning, implementation 
monitoring and Evaluation
11 19.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
institutional Regulations and Public 
Sector financial methods
12 19.11.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
English Language 13 25.11.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
07
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
administrative Service
Economic and Social Policy (w ith 
special reference to Sri Lanka)
14 09.12.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Process of development 
administration (with special 
reference to Sri Lanka)
15 09.12.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
use of information and 
communication technology for 
management
16 date of the practical test to be held 
by shall be informed by the director 
General of Sri Lanka institute of 
development administration after 
the closing date of applications
Proficiency in the Link Language 17 10.12.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
08
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for 
Officers of Sri Lanka 
accountants’ Service
management accountancy 18 02.12.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
Public financial management 19 02.12.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
Management and Organization 20 09.12.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
09
2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination for Officers 
of Sri Lanka Planning 
Service
techniques of development 
Planning
21 09.12.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
basic macro Economics 22 10.12.2017 9.00 a. m. - 12.00 noon
current international Economic 
crises and their impact on Sri 
Lankan Economy
23 10.12.2017 12.30 p. m. - 3.30 p. m.
  

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2411
14.  14.1  Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination and 
Second Language test shall be made in the following manner. 
 Examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination  Law Should be a Barrister, Advocate in a Supreme
for officers in Sri Lanka    court, a Graduate in Law from a university 
administrative Service    accepted by university Grants commission
Note 1.– The exemption for Sociology or Economics in the First Efficiency Bar shall be made applicable to 
the officers of Sri Lanka Administrative Service recruited from 01.07.2012 to 23.12.2013 under the Service 
minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005.
 14.2  Even though as per the interim provisions 1.5 (b) of Sri Lanka Administrative Service Minute, the officers 
were required to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination under the provisions of previous service minutes 
before the effective date of (01.07.2012) of the above Service Minute, the officers who are unable to pass 
the same as at 31.12.2014 should complete the Efficiency Bar Examination by passing the subjects of the 
Efficiency Bar Examinations held under the existing service minute which are conforming to the subjects 
of each Efficiency Bar Examination as per the existed service minute. Corresponding subjects are given 
in the following table :
 Service Minute No. 1419/3 dated 14.11.2005 New Service Minute No. 1842/2 dated 23.12.2013
Law Law
(First Efficiency Bar Examination) (First Efficiency Bar Examination)
administration  administration
(First Efficiency Bar Examination) (First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economics or Sociology Economics and Sociology
(First Efficiency Bar Examination) (First Efficiency Bar Examination)
Public Sector financial management Public Sector financial management and Procurement 
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination) Process
 (First Efficiency Bar Examination)
English Link (English) Language Proficiency
(First Efficiency Bar Examination) (Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Economic and Social Policy Economic and Social Policy 
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination) (Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
development administration Process development administration Process
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination) (Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
Management and Organization Methods Use of Information and Communication Technology 
(Second Efficiency Bar Examination) for Management
 (Second Efficiency Bar Examination)
15. Issuance of results.– the results of all the candidates who have applied/sat for this examination shall be 
published in the web site of the ministry of Public administration and management. Publishing of the results in the website 
of the ministry shall be considered as an issuance of results to the candidates, according to the circular Number SP/
Sb/1/13 and dated 13.10.2009 of Secretary to h. E. the President on the e-documents and e-communication. accordingly, 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'10'20
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.10.2017
2412
heads of departments shall include the relevant copies of the results sheets of the examination published in the website 
of the Ministry to the personal files of the officers. It is not allowed to re-scrutinize the results of the examination. 
16. any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the ministry of Public administration and 
management. 
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this notification, the Sinhala 
text shall prevail. 
 J. J. rathnaSiri,
 Secretary,
 ministry of Public administration and management.
ministry of Public administration and management, 
independence Square,
colombo 07,
06th of October, 2017.
10–667
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  Of  GOVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNka.