

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – GENERAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1300
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1272
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 1"973 – 2016 cqks ui 24 jeks isl=rdod – 2016'06'24
No. 1,973 –  fRiday ,  juNE 24, 2016
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th july, 2016 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st  july, 2016.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
B. K. S. Ra vindRa,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
21st june, 2016.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1269
Note.— Mediation Board (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 06, 2016.
N. B.— the list of Homoeopathy Practitioners upto 31.12.2015 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in all three languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1270
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1271
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1272
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrars marriages, births and Deaths
 
PuttaLaM  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and deaths in the divisions set out in the 
Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriages Registration divisions 
and should be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or 
before 25th of july, 2016.
 E. M. 
gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Kalpitiya Post of Registrar of  Marriages (General) district Secretary/additional
   in Kalpitiya division and Births and  Registrar General, district   
   deaths of thalawila division   Secretariat, Puttalam. 
06–807
––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages 
 
aNuRadHaPuRa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule 
hereto.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1273
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Muslim Marriages Registration divisions and should 
be entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding educational and other qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in 
public places such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari 
Offices, Rural Development Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and 
district Registries. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 
25th july, 2016.
 E. M. gunasekera,
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
02nd june, 2016.
schedule
 District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
  Division Application are called Applications should be sent
anuradhapura Galnewa Post of Registrar of  Muslim Marriages  district Secretary/additional
   in Negampaha area of Kalagam    Registrar General, district   
   Palatha division   Secretariat, anuradhapura. 
anuradhapura Kekirawa Post of Registrar of  Muslim Marriages  district Secretary/additional
   in Kekirawa and tibbatuwewa area    Registrar General, district   
   of Kalagam Palatha division   Secretariat, anuradhapura. 
06–806
––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  POLICE   
Post of Police Constable (Special Task force) 
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
for the Post of Recruit Police constable - Special task 
force in the Sri Lanka Police. 
2. application forms duly perfected in accordance 
with the specimen form given below should be sent to 
Director/Recruitment, Recruiting Office, No. 375, 1st 
floor, Sri Sambuddathwa jayanthi Mawatha, colombo 06. 
the application should be sent by the registered post to 
the above address to reach on or before 24.08.2016 and 
the post applied for should be marked in the top left hand 
corner of the envelope enclosing the application. delayed 
applications will not be entertained and no applications 
will be issued by the Sri Lanka Police. 
3. Salary Scale.–  Rs. 354,480 - 7 x 3,600 - 27 x 4,440 
- Rs. 499,560.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1274
Salary will be paid from 01.01.2016 to 01.01.2020 as 
per the Public administration circular 3-2016 Schedule ii 
and the above mentioned salary scale will be effect from 
01.01.2020.
Further, these officers are entitled for the allowances 
granted in accordance with the iG Police circular No. 
2416/2013, dated 07.01.2013. in addition to the above 
salary scale, they will be paid following allowances :  
    Rs. cts. 
 (a) cost of living allowance 7,800.00
 (b) incentive allowance 1,500.00
 (c) uniform cleaning allowance 250.00
 (d) 1/4 of monthly salary 3,570.00
 (f) arduous duty allowances  2,000.00
 (g) combined allowance 10,500.00
  (350x30 operational areas)
 (h) combined allowance  8,400.00
  (350x24 other areas)
in addition to the above said allowances :
 (a)  free transport facilities.
 (b)  Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial 
assistance can be obtained for medical treatment 
even in a foreign country.).
 (c)  all uniforms will be provided free of charge.
 (d)  facilities to improve skill and talents in sports.
 (e)  travelling expenses are provided to undertake 
duties and money will be granted as rewards for 
outstanding and arduous duties. 
 (f) Officers will be entitled to the special allowance 
only during the period they are attached to the Stf 
consequent to the basic training. 
04. Basic Qualifications Required : 
 (a) Age Limit.– the age should be between 18 and 
25 years as at closing date of the applications 
as per the Gazette Notification. However 
Police Officers currently serving in the Sri 
Lanka Police are eligible to apply up to the 
age of 27 years at age as at the closing date of 
applications. 
 (b) Educational Qualifications : 
  Should have passed 06 subjects including 
Mathematics and Medium Language in not 
more than two attempts at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. Applicants who are qualified within 
two attempts should have passed at least 5 subjects 
at the first attempt. 
Note 01.– the subjects passed at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination is determined as per the 
subject classification of Department 
of Examination i.e.- Science subject 
combination of subject number 41 and 44 
is considered as one subject and Maths 
subject combination of subject number 42 
and 45 as one subject. 
Note 02.– if the written test of technical subject at 
the G. c. E. (o/L) Examination is failed, 
it is considered as the technical subject is 
failed even though the practical test of the 
same subject is passed. 
Note 03.–  Since optional tamil, English and Sinhala 
subjects are not including in the stream 
of G. c. E. (o/L) syllabus, passes in any 
of these subjects will not be accounted 
as passed subjects at the G. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination. 
 (c) Physical Requirements : 
  * Height 05 feet 04 inches (minimum).
  * chest 30 inches minimum (in exhalation).
Note.– applicants who are slightly short of the 
physical requirements, but fulfill the other 
stipulated qualifications will be eligible 
at the discretion of inspector General of 
Police provided that they have outstanding 
skills in sports and have achieved excellent 
performance in sports at national level or 
have earned reputation for Sri Lanka by 
participating in an international competition. 
 (d) Visual Requirement.– Vision should not be less 
than 6/12 in each eye. it is also accepted, if the 
vision is 6/6 in one eye and 6/18 in the other eye it 
will be accepted. colour vision should be normal. 
applicants wearing spectacles or contact lenses 
will not be eligible. 
 (e) Other Qualifications .– applicants should be 
unmarried (divorcees will be considered as 
married). only this condition will not apply for 
the Police Officers presently serving in the Sri 
Lanka Police and who have fulfilled the other 
qualifications. 

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1275
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will 
have to pass the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the 
Sri Lanka Police. only those who pass this test must also 
get through the following physical fitness test .
Physical Fitness Test :
 Exercise Times  Time (minutes)
1. 1,000 meters  04
2. chip ups 05 01
3. Push ups 15 01
4. Situps 15 01
5. Scott thrush 12 01
Only those who are successful in the physical fitness test 
will be summoned for the final interview, and those who 
score 40% or more in the final interview will be summoned 
for the written test. 
w the written test consists of two question papers. 
* an essay paper not less than 500 words - 45 
minutes.
* General knowledge and intelligence test paper - 1 
hour.  
     
06. Medical examination.– applicant must pass the 
medical test before obtaining his appointment. Medical test 
is an only one part of the recruitment process. Selection 
will be made among the applicants who pass the medical 
test as per the number of existing vacancies and the position 
in the list pertaining to the merits and skill. those who fail 
the medical test will be rejected. 
07. Background Inquiries : 
 (a) applicant's close relations and friends will 
be inquired, on the conduct of the applicant. 
applicants with bad conduct will not be 
recruited ;
 (b) Providing false information will make the 
applicant ineligible. if the false information is 
elicited after the appointment, the applicants 
will be dismissed from the service. 
08. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* as per the Public administration circular No. 
07/2007 dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry 
of Public administration and Home affairs, all 
officers recruited to the Public/Provincial Public 
Service with effect from 01.07.2007 should 
acquire proficiency in the other official language 
within a period of 05 years in addition to the 
official language through which they enter the 
service. 
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant 
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should 
pass the level 2 of the language test conducted by 
the Department of Official Languages. 
* The salary increments of the officers who do not 
acquire the specific proficiency in the second 
official language within a period of 05 years from 
the date of their appointments will be deferred 
until they obtain qualifications.  
09. Terms of engagement.– this post is permanent and 
pensionable. you are liable to contribute to the Widows'/
Widowers' and orphans' Pension Scheme. 
10. Conditions of Service : 
 (a) this appointment is subject to a three years recruit 
period ;
 (b) the selected applicants will be required to comply 
with any rules already made or may hereinafter be 
made to give effect to the official language policy;
 (c) they will be subjected to comply with the relevant 
provisions of the Establishment code V olume 
i and ii, financial Regulations, departmental 
orders, and any other orders that may be issued 
by the inspector General of Police or by the 
Government from time to time;
 (d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be 
required to pass the prescribed Examinations 
conducted by the Sri Lanka Police. those who 
fail to pass the prescribed examinations or found 
to be unfit for Police duties will be liable to be 
removed from the Police Service ;
 (e) Permission will not be granted to marry prior 
to the confirmation in the said rank without the 
permission of the inspector General of Police. 
However in terms of P. G. ii No. 41 dated 
28.02.1973 and i. G's circular No. 1952/2006 
of 19.10.2006 and circular (amended) dated 
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry under special 
circumstances and with the permission of 
inspector General of Police ;
 (f) applicants appointed after the training should 
serve as recruit period of 03 years in the Sri Lanka 

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1276
Police and if they wish to resign from the service 
before their probation is over, they should sign 
a consent agreement to the effect that they are 
willing to pay any amount which was incurred on 
the training and uniforms etc., together with any 
other prescribed payments at the time of tendering 
their resignations. director of Poilce training 
college will decide it having calculated dues from 
the applicants. the acceptance of resignation 
should conform to the Section 4, chapter V of 
V olume i of the Establishments code, 1985 ;
 (g) Recruit Police constables should subscribe 
affirmation/oath to the effect that they comply 
with the Police code of conduct immediate 
after commencing their training in terms of the 
i. G. P.’s circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
 (h) Recruit Police constables should subscribe the 
oath of allegiance for a prestigious public service, 
immediate after commencing their training in 
terms of the i.G.P.'s circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
 (i) Recruit Police constables who have been 
confirmed in the post will have opportunities for 
promotions in terms of the approved schemes of 
promotions of the Sri Lanka Police.  
11. (a) attention is drawn to the general conditions 
applicable to appointments to posts in the Public 
Service published at the beginning of the Section 
(iia) of the Part i of this Gazette ;
 (b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public 
administration circular, No. 15/90 dated 
10.03.1990. 
12. applications should accompany copies of the 
following documents (originals must not be forwarded) :
 (i) Birth Certificate ;
 (ii) two recent testimonials of character (obtained 
from persons who are not related) ;
 (iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
 (iv) Certificates in support of sports with outstanding 
records or other extra curricular activities ;
 (v) A photostat copy of the certificates of service 
experience (if available) ;
 (vi) a photostat copy of the identity card.
13. (a) applicants who are already in the Public Service 
must forward their applications through the 
Heads of their respective departments and they 
must be accompanied with a certificate stating 
that the officer can be released if selected. 
 (b) Applicants must fill the required particulars 
in their own hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in 
size and post them together with the copies of 
certificates, to the address given in paragraph two 
and under no circumstances should applications 
be handed over personally to any officer.
14. applications which do not conform to the 
requirements stipulated in this notification will be rejected 
and such applicants will not be notified. 
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
to applicants who are summoned for the test and 
interview. 
inspector General of Police. 
SRi LaNKa PoLicE 
Post of Police constable (sPecial task force) 
sPecimen aPPlication form
For office use
01.  (a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
   (As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
  (b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
  (c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––.
 (copy of the Nic should be attached)
03. father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
 divisional Secretariat to which the place of birth 
belongs :––––––––.
 Province :––––––––––.
05.  (a) Present address :––––––––––.
  (b) Police Station to which the present address belongs 
:––––––––––.
  (c) Permanent address :––––––––––.
  (d) Police Station to which the permanent address 
belongs :––––––––––.
  (e) Grama Niladari's division to which permanent 
address belongs :––––––––––.
   divisional Se cretariat :––––––––––.
  (f) t elephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
   Mobile No. :––––––––––.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1277
06.  (a) Nationality :––––––––––.
  (b) Whether you are a Sri Lankan citizen by birth or  
  registration :–––––––––.
   (If by registration attach a copy of certificate)
  (c)  if you are a citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
  (i) applicant :––––––––––.
  (ii) applicant's father :––––––––––.
  (iii) applicant's paternal grand father :––––––––.
  (iv) applicant's paternal great grand father :–––––––.
07. date of Birth :––––––––––. 
 (Copy of the birth certificate should be attached)
 age :––––––––––.
 (as at the closing date of applications as per the Gazette 
Notification) :  
 y ears :––––––––, Months :––––––––, days :–––––––.
08. Height : feet :––––––––––.  inches :––––––––––.
 chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (mention the examinations 
passed and the copies of the certificates should be 
attached) :––––––––––.
10. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates 
should be attached) :–––––––––.
11. civil status :––––––––––.
12.  (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
  (ii) are you a member of any armed force ? :––––––.
13. Do you have special skills and/or qualifications :––––.
14. Give names and addresses of two non-related referees 
to inquire about the applicant :
  (i) ––––––––––.
  (ii) ––––––––––.
15. Have you served in the Sri Lanka Police Service 
before ? (if so, what are the reasons for leaving the 
service ? give details) :––––––––.
16. (a) are you serving in any armed service ? (if so 
your application must be forwarded through the 
respective Service commander) :–––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in an armed service ? (if so 
attach a copy of your discharge certificate) :                
––––––––––.
17. (a) are you serving in a V olunteer armed Service ? 
(if so, your application must be forwarded 
through the respective Service commander) : 
––––––––.
 (b) Have you served in V olunteer armed service ? 
:––––––––.
  (If so attach a copy of your discharge certificate)
18. Have you been arrested on suspicion of having 
committed an offence ? Have you been, convicted or 
brought before the court or punished (if so give details) 
:––––––––––.
19. Has any of your relation been arrested on suspicion of 
having committed an offence or convicted or brought 
before the court or punished (if so give details) :–––––.
i hereby declare that the above particulars are true 
and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. if the 
particulars furnished are found to be incorrect or false, i 
am aware that i am liable for immediate termination of my 
service in the Sri Lanka Police at any time even though i 
have been appointed to the post. 
 –––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant. 
date :––––––––––.
20. Certification of the Head of Department (If applicable) :
this is to certify that the applicant Mr./Miss ..................... 
is serving in ........................... the department corporation/
Board and if he is selected for the above post, he could be 
released from service. 
 ––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the department 
 with the designation seal. 
designation :––––––––––.
date :––––––––––.
06–697
–––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  AIR  fORCE
Officer Cadet Vacancies 
V acaNciES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular air force for 
Officer Cadets in the General Duties Pilot Branch.
2. applications are invited from male candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below:-
BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications 
(Accredited by the General Sir John kotelawala 
Defence university)

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1278
a minimum of six passes at the GcE (o/L) examination 
with four credits including credit passes in English 
language, Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in 
Sinhala / tamil language in one sitting and ordinary passes 
in three subjects at the GcE (a/L) examination in Physical 
Science Stream (Physics, chemistry, combined Maths) 
/ Bio Science Stream (Physics, chemistry, Biology) (as 
applicable) in one sitting.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri 
Lanka Regular air force :
(a)  Nationality :-   Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) age :-   Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years as at 15
th 
November 2016
(c) Height :-  5'6'' and above
(d) Weight :-  17 < BMi < 26      
                        
                                                 Weight (Kg)
     BMi =  ––––––––––
     Height
2 (m)                                                                               
(e)  chest :- 32'' (Minimum)
(f) colour Vision :-  cP2
 Standard
(g) Visual acuity  :-  Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
    (without spectacles)
(h) civil Status :-  candidates must be unmarried. 
No cadet will be permitted to 
marry whilst under training 
and for a further period of 
one (1) year from the date of 
commissioning.
4. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. on arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will 
be measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight 
are below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification 
and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
any candidate who may have a special skill or value to 
the service may at the discretion of the commander of the 
air force be considered even though he may not have the 
requisite height provided he possess the requisite academic 
and professional qualifications. 
6. Conditions of service:-
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air force 
as a cadet on a regular engagement in the same 
manner as for other Ranks and will undergo a 
Basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the branch, the status allocated on his 
enlistment as an other Rank will lapse and will 
receive a Permanent commission in the rank of 
Pilot Officer.
 (b) cadets will be required to undergo training at a 
place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the air force in consultation with 
the Ministry of defence.
 (c) during the period of training as cadets and 
thereafter, personnel will be subject to air force 
Law.
 (d) Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, 
equipment and medical facilities.
 (e) during the period of training, a cadet will be 
accommodated in an air force Mess and will be 
provided with food.
 (f) in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his 
candidature for a commission during training, the 
parent or guardian will be required to refund to the 
Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to 
that time by the Republic of Sri Lanka on account 
of such cadet.
 (g) if at any time during his course a cadet is reported 
by the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his control 
to qualify for a commission, his parent or guardian 
will be required to refund to the Sri Lanka air 
force all expenses incurred on his training and 
will be required to enter into a bond to this effect 
with the commander of the air force acting on 
behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka. 
        
 (h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 27 of the application form in respect of sub 
paragraphs (f) and (g) above, and forward them 
together with the application. Parent or guardian 
will be required to enter in to a bond subsequently 
in this form with the Republic of Sri Lanka prior to 
the appointment of these candidates as cadets.
 (i) candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary 
interview and if successful will be called for the 
Officer Quality tests. candidates who pass the 
Officer Quality Tests will be called for Medical 
Examinations (all candidates selected will 
be medically examined under Sri Lanka air 
force arrangements) and flying aptitude tests. 
candidates who successfully complete these tests 
will be called for the final interview. the required 
number of candidates per branch will be selected 
according to merit at these interviews and tests.  

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1279
 (j) A single Officer is required to live in the 
Officers Mess. He is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. Batman service will be 
provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance and 
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
 (k) A married Officer may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants. 
 (l) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
 (m) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and 
orders issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements:- the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the Language Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances:-
 (a) consolidated pay rate: the scale of consolidated 
pay applicable to Officer Cadets and 
commissioned Ranks shall be as follows:
 
  Officer Cadet - Rs.187,620.00 p.a.
  Pilot Officer - Rs.223,500.00  p.a. (Cadet Entry)
  Pilot Officer - Rs.242,700.00  p.a. (Non Cadet 
Entry)
  Flying Officer - Rs.275,220.00 - 34 x   7,740.00 = 
Rs. 538,380.00 p.a.
  flight Lieutenant - Rs.321,660.00 - 28 x   7,740.00 
= Rs. 538,380.00 p.a.
  Squadron Leader - Rs.352,620.00 - 24 x   7,740.00 
= Rs. 538,380.00  p.a.
  Wing commander - Rs.362,100.00 - 20 x   
9,480.00 = Rs. 551,700.00 p.a.
  Group captain - Rs.441,060.00 - 18 x  12,600.00 
= Rs. 667,860.00 p.a.
 (b) Other Allowances :-
 (1) cost of Living allowance of Rs. 7,800.00 per 
month.
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per month 
after five years of service.
 (3) Hard line allowance Rs. 600.00 per month.
(20.00 per day)
 (4) additional Hard line allowance Rs. 4,400.00 
per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special allowance Rs. 3,000.00 per month 
(Rs.100.00 will be paid for day).
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000.00 per month.
 (7) uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255.00 per 
month.
 (8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 (9) Ration allowance Rs. 16,138.20 per month 
(Rs.537.94 per day - if permitted to live out).
 (10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11) Special allowance 20% of consolidated salary.
 (12) three sets of holiday railway warrants per year 
(For Officer, spouse and children).
 (13) an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for Officers living in 
Messes to travel from the Mess to the hometown 
once a month.
 (14) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (15) free medical facilities (including for families if 
applicable).
 (16) Married Officers permitted to live-out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.  
 (17) Pay for flying allowance.
 (18) Rent allowances for married Officers not in 
occupation of a Government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain and above Rs. 
1,600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per month.
 (19) Budget interim allowances Rs. 10,000.00 per 
month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities:-  Payable in terms of the air 
force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All Officers are contributors to the 
Widows and orphans Pension (armed force) Scheme. 
Rate of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicant’s 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. all cages of the application should 
be completed neatly with as much details as 
possible. applications should be forwarded 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1280
under registered cover to : “COmmAND 
RECRuITING OffICER, SRI LANkA AIR 
fORCE TRADE TRAINING SChOOL, 
EkALA,  kOTuGODA”  so  as  to  reach   
him  not  later  than 1200  noon  on 30
Th JuNE 
2016. the envelope enclosing the application 
should be marked “APPLICATION fOR 
CADETShIP IN ThE GENERAL DuTIES 
PILOT bRANCh”. applications received 
after the closing date and not in accordance with 
the requirements of this notification and not in 
registered post mail will not be entertained. 
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service / 
corporations / Boards /   civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
Heads of department / corporations / Boards / 
Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
  
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon to 
do so:-
 (1) Certificate of Registration of Birth 
(Certificate issued for the purpose of the 
education code will not be accepted) ;
 (2) Certificates in support of the educational 
qualifications required for the branch 
applied for ;
 (3) Certificates of trade / technical training and 
/ or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution ;
 (4) Two recent certificates of character. One of 
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has the know of the 
applicant for more than two years or from 
the present employer (if employed) ;
 (5) Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
11. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection.
12. Selection Interviews etc. :-
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. 
candidates so selected will be required to undergo 
tests as may be prescribed by the commander 
of the Air Force. The final selection will then 
be made after an interview of those selected 
candidates by a selection board appointed by the 
Ministry of defence.
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and date 
of such interviews. travelling or other expenses 
will not be paid in this respect.
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
an interview he is to produce his National identity 
card issued by the department of Registration of 
Persons.
 (d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final 
interviews will be required to present themselves 
before an air force Medical Board.
 (e) any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence 
in the selection of a candidate will result in 
disqualification of such candidate.
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
 GP 
bulathsinghala,
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
P.o. Box 594,
colombo 02.
aPPLicatioN  foR  officER  cadEt  iN  tHE 
GENERaL  dutiES  PiLot  BRaNcH  of  tHE  SRi 
LaNKa  aiR  foRcE
01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
03. National identity card Number :––––––––––.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1281
04. Permanent address :––––––––––.
05. Postal address :–––––––––––.
06. date of Birth :
 (age as at 15th November, 2016) :
 y ears :––––––––,  Months :–––––––,  days :–––––––.
07. Height : ...............'   ................."
08. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
09. district :–––––––––––.
10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
11. GS division :–––––––––––.
12. t elephone Number :–––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
14. Gender :–––––––––––.
15. School attended :–––––––––––.
16. Pariculars of School and/or university and 
qualifications obtained :
 Name of School/  Type of Year of Subjects 
 University examination examination passed 
    (Including
    grading)
 
 ordinary 
  Level :
 advanced 
  Level :
 other  
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university:- (if applicable) 
  Name and address Nature of  Period of service
  of employer employment From            To
   
                    
    
18. Particulars of parents:-
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present
  birth  address
father
Mother   
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––.
20. details of current achievements in sports (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates / 
years etc. and standards / levels achieved) :––––––––.
21. other achievements of note at School / university or 
with outside organizations (Give details with dates / 
years etc.) :–––––––––.
22. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization :––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so 
give details and the outcome of such applications : 
–––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––.
25. if earlier employed in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector / Board / corporation (including 
the central Bank, National Bank, universities, joint 
Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) 
reasons for termination of employment :–––––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials:-
 Name Designation Postal Address
  
27.  Declaration to be signed by the applicant :-
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in 
the Sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
   
 –––––––––––––, 
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
28. declaration to be signed by the Parent or Guardian of 
the applicant:
 (a) i am the Parent / Guardian of …………………
who is an applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka 
air force and who has signed the declaration in 
cage 26 of the form of application above. 
 
 (b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following :
(1) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in 
the event of the above named applicant 
voluntarily terminating his candidature for 
a commission during his period of training 
all expenses incurred up to that time by the 
Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such 
applicant ;

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1282
(2) t o refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported 
on by the authorities as being unsuitable 
(for reasons of misconduct or due to causes 
within his own control) for the issue of a 
commission all the expenses incurred on his 
account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
 –––––––––––––––,
   Signature of Parent /Guardian.
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of first Witness.
  
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Second Witness.
date :––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
address :––––––––––.
06–830
––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  AIR  fORCE 
Officer Vacancies
V acaNciES exist for Male / female commissioned 
Officers in the Regular / V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka 
air force in the following Branches. 
 (a) t echnical Engineering Branch
 (b) Logistics Branch
 (c) air field construction Branch
 (d) Medical Branch
 (e) dental Branch 
 (f) administrative Medical Branch 
 (g) administrative Veterinary Branch
 (h) administrative agriculture Branch
 (i) administrative Band Branch
2. applications are invited from those candidates 
possessing the professional qualifications given below :-
 (a) TEChNICAL ENGINEERING bRANCh
  Technical Engineering Officer (Aeronautical) – 
male (Regular)
 
*  full time four (4) year Bachelor degree in 
aeronautical Engineering from a university 
recognized by the university Grant 
commission of Sri Lanka with two years 
post qualification, work experience in the 
Aeronautical Engineering field.
 (Selected candidates will be commissioned 
in the rank of flight Lieutenant in keeping 
with their professional qualifications and 
experience)
 Technical Engineering Officer (Mechanical/ 
Automobile) –male (Regular)
 
*  full time four (4) year Bachelor degree in 
Mechanical/automobile Engineering from 
a university recognized by the university 
Grant commission of Sri Lanka university 
or three years full time National diploma 
in technology (Ndt) in Mechanical 
Engineering from the university of 
Moratuwa or three and half (3 ½) years 
full time Higher National diploma in 
Mechanical Engineering (HNd E) from Sri 
Lanka institute of advanced technological 
Education with two years post qualification, 
work experience in the Mechanical/ 
Automobile Engineering field.
 
 (Selected candidates will be commissioned 
in the rank of flight Lieutenant or flying 
Officer in keeping with their professional 
qualifications and experience).
 (b) LOGISTICS bRANCh
  mess manager - male (Regular)
*  Higher diploma in Hotel Management or 
completion of all 4 levels of full time basic 
courses and completion of intermediate and 
advance level in Hospitality industry training, 
from a recognized Local / foreign institute 
with minimum of 2 years post qualification 
experience in Star class Hotels in food and 
Beverage department in executive capacity.
 Technical Officer Apparel – Male (Regular)
*  a  Bachelor degree in Science, technology or 
Engineering, Preferably with a Post Graduate 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1283
Diploma qualification in Textile and Clothing 
technology with 5 years working experience 
in apparel sector with minimum of 3 years as 
a trainer / consultant in textile and apparel 
technology covering product development, 
productivity improvement, merchandising and 
work study; or 
* Should have a diploma in textile and clothing 
from the Sri Lanka institute of textile and 
apparel or any other recognized institute with 
2 years working experience in textile and 
clothing technology.  
 (age not more than 33 years for degree 
holders and 26 years for diploma holders as at 
15th November 2016) 
 (Selected candidates will be commissioned 
in the rank of flight Lieutenant or flying 
Officer in keeping with their professional 
qualifications and experience)
 (c) AIR  fIELD  CONSTRuCTION  bRANCh 
  Building Service Engineering Officers - Male 
(Regular / Volunteer)
* Temporary Squadron Leader: BSc in 
Engineering Specialized in civil / Mechanical/ 
Electrical, Building Service Engineering with 
corporate membership of iE (SL) (charter 
Qualification)  
* Flight Lieutenant: BSc in Engineering 
Specialized in civil / Mechanical / Electrical 
Engineering with MSc in Building Service 
Engineering.
 Civil / Mechanical / Electrical Engineers - 
Male (Regular / Volunteer)
*  Flight Lieutenant: BSc in Engineering 
Specialized in civil / Mechanical / Electrical 
Engineering or equivalent qualification.
*  Flying Officer: Ndt  / NdES / HNdE in 
civil / Mechanical / Electrical Engineering or 
equivalent qualification with three (3) years 
post qualification experience. 
*  Pilot Officer: Ndt  / NdES / HNdE in 
civil/ Mechanical / Electrical Engineering or 
equivalent qualification with less than three 
(3) years post qualification experience.
 Quantity Surveyors - Male / Female 
(Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : BSc in Quantity Surveying 
conducted by the university of Moratuwa or  
Graduate member of the institute of Quantity 
Surveyors in Sri Lanka with two (2) years post 
qualification experience or  Technical member 
of the institute of Quantity Surveyors in Sri 
Lanka with three (3) years post qualification 
experience in the relevant field.
* Flying Officer : technical member of the 
institute of Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka 
or Successful completion of National 
diploma in Quantity Surveying conducted by 
uNiVotEc Ratmalana with two (2) years 
post qualification experience.
 Surveyors - Male (Regular / Volunteer)
*  Flight Lieutenant: BSc in Surveying Science 
from university of Sabaragamuwa or Bachelor 
degree from iSM diyathalawa.
* Flying Officer: diploma in Survey from iSM 
diyathalawa.
 (d) mEDICAL bRANCh  
  Medical Officers - Male / Female (Regular / 
Volunteer)
*  Flight Lieutenant: MBBS or equivalent with 
full registration with the Sri Lanka Medical 
council. 
  Pre - Intern Trainees - Male / Female 
(Regular)
*   MBBS or Medical degree equivalent to MBBS 
(Sri Lanka) from any recognized university 
of a foreign country which is accepted by 
SLMc. they will be enlisted as Regular 
Commissioned Officer for a period of 5 years 
and should qualify the ERPM examination and 
SLMc registration within 5 years from the date 
of enlistment. 
*  Selected candidates will be commissioned in 
the rank of Flying Officer. After completion 
of ERPM examination and with SLMc 
registration they will be considered for the rank 
of flight Lieutenant.
 (e) DENTAL bRANCh  
  Dental Officer - Male (Regular / Volunteer)
*  Flight Lieutenant : BdS or equivalent with 
full registration with the Sri Lanka Medical 
council.
 Dental Student – male (Regular)
*  Flying Officer: Completed final BDS Part I 
and studying in the final year.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1284
*  Pilot Officer: Completed 2nd BDS and 
beginning of 3rd year.
Note:
*  Selected dental Student candidates will be 
required to serve an obligatory period of 10 
years from the date of commission in the rank 
of flight Lieutenant.
*   Selected students will be released from the 
Sri Lanka Air Force until completion of final 
year. they will be commissioned in the rank 
of flight Lieutenant on completion of BdS 
degree and full registration with the SLMc.
*  opportunities will be granted for Post 
Graduate studies depending on the exigencies 
of the service.
*  Dental Students to submit a certificate from 
their respective universities depicting their 
year of studies. 
 (f) ADmINISTRATIVE mEDICAL bRANCh  
  Psychologist - male (Regular)
* Flying Officer:  BSc in Psychology or BSc 
Science with Psychology as a subject
 (g) adMiNiStRatiVE VEtERiNaR y BRaNcH 
  Veterinary Officer - Male (Regular / V olunteer)
*  flight Lieutenant: candidates should possess 
BVSc Veterinary four years degree or an 
equivalent, recognized by the university 
Grant commission of Sri Lanka and working 
experience will be considered as an added 
qualification.
 (h) ADmINISTRATIVE AGRICuLTuRE bRANCh
  Agriculture Officers – Male (Regular)
* flight Lieutenant: BSc in agriculture or 
equivalent recognized by the university 
Grants commission of Sri Lanka.
 (j) ADmINISTRATIVE bAND bRANCh
  band master (male) Regular
* a  minimum of six passes at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination with four credits including credit 
in English language and an ordinary pass in 
Sinhala / tamil language in one sitting; and
* Qualified up to Grade V or above of the Royal 
college or trinity college of Music London or 
equivalent qualifications;
* ability to train and conduct Military Band / 
orchestra and a credit pass in Music at the 
GcE (o/L) examination will be an added 
qualification; 
* ability to compose music in western and 
oriental tradition as well as a Sound knowledge 
on playing Western and oriental instrument 
will be considered as a special qualification.
 (Selected candidates will be commissioned in 
the rank of Pilot Officer)
3.  Other entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) civil Status : Married / unmarried 
(c) Gender  : Male / female (as applicable)
(d) age  : as at 15th November 2016
 (1)  for technical Engineering, 
  Logistic (Mess Manager)
  Branch and dental Students : 18 to 30 years
 
 (2) for air field construction, Medical, 
  Ad/Medical, Dental Officers,
  administrative Veterinary, 
  administrative agriculture and
  administrative Band Branch : 18 to 35 years 
(e) Height  :  Male - 5' 6" and above
      (Medical, ad/Medical & dental 
    Male Officers 5’ 5" and above)
        
  :  female - 5' 4" and above
    (Medical, ad/Medical & dental 
    Female Officers 5' 3" and above)
(f) Weight :  17 < BMi < 26 Male  
    17 < BMi < 25 female  
     Weight (Kg) 
      BMi =  ––––––––––
        Height2(m)
  
(g) chest :  Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) colour Vision Standard  : cP2
(j) Visual acuity :  Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
       (Without spectacles)
      Medical, ad/Medical & dental  
   Branches 
    (6/18 in each eye corrected  
   visual acuity with spectacle  
   should be 6/6 in each eye)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1285
4. any candidate who may possesses special 
qualifications may at the discretion of the Commander 
of the air force be considered, even though he / she may 
not have the requisite height / weight provided he / she 
possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical 
examinations as may be prescribed by the commander of 
the air force.
6. due considerations will be given to current 
outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements:- Selected candidates 
will be required to comply with any rules already made or 
may be made hereafter for giving effect to the Language 
Policy of the Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions in the Official Language Act, 
No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the 
Regular / V olunteer force of the Sri Lanka air force in 
the rank of Pilot Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant 
or Squadron Leader as applicable in keeping with their 
qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo 
training at such places as decided by the commander of 
the Air Force. If at any time during training, the officer 
is reported on by the authorities as being unsuitable for 
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his / her 
control, he / she will be liable to have his / her commission 
withdrawn and / or be subject to other disciplinary action 
in accordance with the Sri Lanka air force disciplinary 
Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and 
orders issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri 
Lanka air force are in terms of Sri Lanka air force 
Regulations published in Gazette No. 10,240 of 27 april 
1951 and as amended from time to time. in terms of Section 
10 of the Air Force Act, "Every officer shall hold his / her 
appointment during the President's pleasure". However 
an officer has no right to resign his / her commission 
unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of the air 
force act may be allowed by the President to do so. the 
provisions of any Bond / agreement envisaging a period 
of obligatory service in respect of training and subsequent 
courses will not supersede the provisions of Section 11 of 
the air force act stated above. Retirement from the air 
Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code.  
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training 
in any part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in the Officers 
Mess. He / She are provided with furnished accommodation 
and food. Batman service will also be provided. a single 
officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are paid 
to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the 
Establishment Code. Married officers not in occupation of 
married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance as 
stated in para 15  (d) (17).   
15.  (a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall 
be as follows.
  
Pilot Officer - Rs. 242,700.00 p.a
Flying Officer - Rs. 275,220.00 -34 x   7,740.00 
= Rs. 538,380.00 p.a
flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660.00 - 28 x   
7,740.00  = Rs. 538,380.00 p.a
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620.00 - 24 x   
7,740.00  = Rs. 538,380.00 p.a
Wing commander - Rs. 362,100.00 - 20 x   
9,480.00  = Rs. 551,700.00 p.a
Group captain - Rs. 441,060.00 - 18 x 
12,600.00  = Rs. 667,860.00 p.a
 (b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers 
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920.00 - 2 x    
7,740.00 = Rs. 329,400.00 p.a
Grade ii  - Rs. 337,140.00 - 8 x    7,800.00 = 
Rs. 399,540.00 p.a
Grade i  - Rs. 412,140.00 -15 x  12,600.00 = 
Rs. 601,140.00 p.a
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680.00 - 12 x  
15,720.00 = Rs. 697,320.00 p.a
 (c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers 
Preliminary Grade (dental) - Rs. 306,180.00 - 
3x7,740.00 = Rs.329,400.00 p.a
Grade ii - Rs.337,140.00 - 8 x 7,800.0 =                    
Rs. 399,540.00 p.a
Grade i - Rs.412,140.00-15 x 12,600.00 =           
Rs. 601,140.00 p.a
dental surgeon - Rs. 508,680.00 - 12x 
15,720.00  = Rs.697,320.00 p.a
 (d) other allowances applicable to Medical and 
Dental officers
(1) Pensionable allowances   
Preliminary  -  Rs.1,700.00 per month
Grade
Grade ii -  Rs.1,700.00 per month 
Grade i -  Rs.3,400.00 per month 
 Specialist Grade - Rs.3,400.00 per month

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1286
(2) Non Pensionable allowances 
Preliminary Grade - Rs.2,125.00 per 
  month
Grade ii - Rs.1,700.00 per  
month 
Grade i - Rs. 400.00 per 
  month 
(3) dat  allowance - Rs.35,000.00 per 
   month
(4) Extra duty payments
 Preliminary Grade - Rs.335.00 per hour
 Grade ii - Rs.383.00 per hour
 Grade i - Rs.528.00 per hour 
 Specialist Grade - Rs.628.00 per hour
  
(5) Language proficiency allowance  
 
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 795.00 per 
month
Grade ii - Rs. 800.00 per 
month
Grade i -  Rs. 1,200.00 per 
month
Specialist Grade -  Rs. 1,450.00 per 
month
  
(6) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 
15 (e) are to be calculated separately as 
applicable.
 (e) Service Allowances :-
 (1) cost of living allowance Rs.7, 800.00 per 
month. 
 (2) incentive allowance of Rs. 250.00 per month 
after five years of service.
 (3) Hardlying allowance Rs. 20.00 per day.
 (4)  additional Hardlying allowance Rs. 4,380.00 
per month for those serving in operational 
areas. 
 (5)  Special allowance (1) Rs. 3,000.00 per month 
(Rs.100.00 will be paid for per day)
 (6)  interim allowance Rs.1, 000.00 per month.
 (7)  uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255.00 per 
month.
 (8)  Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if 
permitted to live out).
 (9)  Ration allowance Rs. 16,138.20 per month 
(if permitted to live out Rs.537.94 per day).
 (10)  Qualification pay where applicable (upto a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (11)  Special allowance (2) 20% of consolidated 
salary. 
 (12)  three sets of holiday railway warrants per 
year (for officer, spouse and children).
 (13)  an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living 
in Messes to travel from the Mess to the 
hometown once a month.
 (14)  free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (15)  free medical facilities (including for families 
if applicable).
 (16)  Married officers permitted to live out are 
entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.
 (17)  Rent allowance for married officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain and above 
Rs.1, 600.00 to Rs. 4,250.00 per month.
 (18)  Service allowance Rs 300.00, Rs.400.00 
Rs.500.00 as applicable (payable to service 
Medical and Dental officers in consideration 
to the number of complete year of service)
 (19)  additional Service allowance Rs.1,500.00 
per month (applicable to service Medical 
Dental officers only)
 (20)  1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x 3 days 
(Maximum) per month (applicable to service 
Medical Dental officers only)
 (21)  Extra duty payments 120 hrs (maximum) per 
month (applicable to service Medical dental 
officers only)
 (22)  Budget interim allowances Rs. 10,000.00 per 
month.
 (23)  telephone Bill allowances - 
  Wing commander Rs. 2,500.00 per month
   Group captain Rs. 4,000.00 per month
  Specialist doctors  Rs. 8,000.00 per month
  doctors Rs. 4,000.00 per month
 (24) Engineering allowances Rs.15,000.00 per 
month (applicable to Engineering Officers 
only) 
 (25) Veterinary allowances Rs.7,500.00 per month 
(applicable to Veterinary Officers only)

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1287
16. Pensions/Gratuities.– Payable in terms of the air 
force Pensions & Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All officers are contributors to the 
Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme. 
Rates of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :-
 (a) applications should be submitted in terms 
of the form specified below. All cages of the 
application should be completed neatly with as 
much details as possible. applications should 
be addressed to "coMMaNd REcRuitiNG 
officER, SRi LaNKa  aiR foRcE 
tRadE tRaiNiNG ScHoo L, EKaLa, 
KotuGoda" so as to reach him not later 
than 1200 noon on 30tH juNE 2016 under 
registered cover. the envelope enclosing the 
application should be marked" aPPLicatioN 
foR coMMiSSioN iN tHE ……………… 
BRaNcH". applications received after the 
closing date and not in accordance with the 
requirements of this notification and not in 
registered post mail will not be entertained. 
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service /
corporations/Boards/civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through 
their Heads of department/corporations/
Boards/civil Establishments and should bear 
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will 
be released if selected.
 
 (c) applicants should attach to their applications 
copies of:
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth.
(2) Certificates of the highest academic and 
professional qualifications obtained.
(3) Certificates of character from at least two 
responsible persons who are personally 
acquainted with the applicant.
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, 
cadetting etc.  
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made 
in the application.
* Note:-  Originals of these certificates should 
be produced only if and when the applicant is 
called for the interviews. 
18. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to 
dismissal if discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfil the above 
conditions only. candidates so selected from 
the Preliminary interview will be required to 
undergo a medical test as may be prescribed 
by the Commander of the Air Force. The final 
selection will then be made after an interview 
appointed by the Ministry of defence. 
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be 
informed in writing of the place, time and 
date of such interviews. No travelling or 
other expenses will be paid in this respect.
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he / she is to produce his / 
her National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (d) candidates likely to be suitable following 
their final interviews will be required to 
present themselves before an air force 
Medical Board.
 (e) any one who desires to recommend a 
candidate should do so by giving his / her 
testimonial. any form of canvassing or 
attempt to influence in the selection of a 
candidate will result in disqualification of 
such candidate.
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for 
enlistment will not be notified.
     
  G P 
bulathsinghala,
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
P.o. Box 594,
colombo 02.
aPPLicatioN foR coMMiSSioN iN tHE SRi 
LaNKa REGuLaR/VoLuNtEER aiR foRcE iN 
tHE ..........................  BRaNcH
01. Nationality :–––––––––––.
 (State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
02. full Name (as per the National identity card) :–––––.
03. National identity card Number :––––––––––.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1288
04. Branch applied :–––––––––––.
05. Post applied :–––––––––––.
06. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
07. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
08. School attended :–––––––––––.
09. Postal address :–––––––––––.
10. E-mail address :–––––––––––.
11. date of Birth :–––––––––––.
12. Height :–––––––––––.
13. district :–––––––––––.
14. Electorate :–––––––––––.
15. GS division and Number :–––––––––––.
16. t elephone Number :–––––––––––.
17. civil status :–––––––––––.
18. Particulars of School and/or university and 
qualifications obtained :
 Name of  Type of Year of Subjects 
 School/  examination examination passed 
 University   (Including
    grading)
 
 Ordinary  Level
 Advanced  Level
 Professional
  Qualifications
 Other  
19. Particulars of employment since leaving School/
university:- (if applicable) 
  Name and address Nature of  Period of service
  of employer employment From            To
   
                    
    
20. Particulars of parents:-
 Full Name Place of Occupation Present
  birth  address
father
Mother   
21. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––.
22. details of current achievements in sports (Give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates / 
years etc. and standards/levels achieved) :––––––––.
23. other achievements of note at School/university or 
with outside organizations. (Give details with dates / 
years etc.) :–––––––––.
24. any previous service in the armed force or V olunteer 
force, cadet corps or Boy Scout organization :––––.
25. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka air 
force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so 
give details and the outcome of such applications : 
–––––––––.
26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––.
27. if earlier employed in a Government department or 
in the Public Sector / Board / corporation (including 
the central Bank, National Bank, universities, joint 
Stock companies controlled by the Government etc.) 
reasons for termination of employment :–––––––––.
28. Particulars of testimonials:-
 Name Designation Postal Address
  
29.  declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect 
of those candidates who are selected for commission in 
the Sri Lanka air force published in the Gazette of the 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
   
 –––––––––––––, 
 Signature of applicant.
date :––––––––––.
06–831
––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA  AIR  fORCE 
Regular Airmen/Airwomen Vacancies and 
Volunteer Airmen/Airwomen Vacancies 
V acaNciES exist in the Regular force of the Sri Lanka 
air force for airmen/airwomen in the trades are given 
below :
1.   (a) Trades & Educational Qualifications Required:-
            
  (1) Logistic Trades
(a) Logistic assistant (Male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1289
including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/ 
tamil and English languages and a 
credit in Mathematics/Science/Business 
& account Studies. Knowledge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) 
will be an added Qualification.
(b) Ground Steward (Male / female)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language. Priority will be given 
to candidates who have an ordinary pass 
for English or fluent in English language 
with communication skill.  Experience 
and professional qualification in field of 
hospitality at tourist Board authorized 
Hotels (Ex: Waiter/Barman/House 
Keeper/ Room Boy / Room attendance/ 
Room Steward) 
(c) catering assistance (Male) 
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two 
sittings including an ordinary pass in 
Sinhala/tamil language. Priority will 
be given to candidates who have an 
ordinary pass for English.
Vacancies exist in the V olunteer force of the Sri Lanka 
air force for airmen in the trades are given below :–
2. (a) Trades & Educational, Professional 
Qualifications Required:-
  (1) Civil Engineering Trades (male)
(a) construction technician
(b)  Wood Work technician
(c) Water Work technician
(d) Blacksmith and Welder
(e) Electrical technician
(f) Mechanical technician
(g) construction Equipment technician
(h) air condition and Ref Mechanic
   
Must be passed Grade 8 (9 year) and having 
followed a course in the respective field 
successfully for not less than 03 Months or not 
less than one year in the respective field.
candidates who possess the technical knowledge 
in construction equipment and experience in 
repairing the pertinent equipments could apply 
for the post of mechanical technician. the 
candidates who possess the knowledge and 
experience in the maintenance of construction 
equipments and tools such as generator, water 
pump and concrete mix could apply for the 
post of construction Equipment technician. 
Vacancies exist in the V olunteer force of the Sri Lanka 
air force  for airmen/airwomen of the trades are given 
below as direct Entry.
3. (a) Trades & Educational, Professional Qualifications 
Required:-
 
(1)  civil Engineering trades 
(a) Quantity Survey assistant - (Male / 
female)
 National Certificate in Quantity Surveying 
(Nct Q/S) – the candidates who possess 
the one year certificate (full time) or three – 
year part time NCT certificate in Quantity 
Surveying will be confirmed in Leading 
aircraftman rank and the candidates who 
possess three years of working experience 
in the respective field for the preparation 
of bill of quantities, tender documents, 
contract bills and the evaluation of tenders 
will be awarded with corporal rank.
(b) draughtsman - (Male / female)
 National Certificate in Engineering 
draughtsmanship – the candidates who 
possess the one year certificate (full time) 
in Engineering draughtsmanship will be 
awarded with Leading aircraftman rank 
and the candidates who possess the above 
qualification with minimum of three years 
working experience which is obtained 
after having completed the relevant 
qualification will be confirmed in Corporal 
rank.
(c) forman (civil/Electrical/Mechanical) - 
(Male)
 National certificate in Technology NCT 
(civil/Electrical/Mechanical Engineering) 
the candidates who possess the three – 
year part time NCT certificate or any 
other equivalent qualifications awarded by 
Government technical colleges with three 
years of experience will be confirmed in 
corporal rank and the candidates who 
possess less than three years of experience 
will be confirmed in Leading Aircraftman 
rank. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1290
4.  Other Requirements  :- 
(a) Candidates must fulfil the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka 
Regular / V olunteer air force: -
(1)    Nationality - Must be a citizen of Sri 
Lanka.
(2)    age as at 15th july 2016 
 - Not less than 18 years and not more than 
23 years (Regular Male)
 - Not less than 18 years and not more than 
22 years (Regular female)
  for civil Engineering trades 
  Not less than 18 years and not more than 
35 years (V olunteer-Male)
  Not less than 18 years and not more than 
25 years (V olunteer-female)
  
(3) Height -  5 feet 5 inches and above (Male)
  5 feet 3 inches and above (female)
(4)   Weight  : - 17 < BMi < 26 (Male)
       17 < BMi < 25 (female)
    Weight (Kg)
 Body Mass index =  ––––––––––––
    Height
2 (m)
(5) Vision colour Standard: cP2
(6) Visual acuity: 6/6 each eye (without 
spectacles)
(7) civil Status: 
(a) Regular airmen/airwomen candidates  
must be unmarried and not allowed 
to marry until the completion of two 
years from the date of enlistment and 
until one year after the completion of 
the Basic trade training course and 
whichever is later. 
(b) V olunteer airmen – Married/ 
unmarried (unmarried V olunteer 
airmen candidates not allowed to 
marry until the completion of one year 
from the date of enlistment and until 
one year after the completion of the 
Basic training course and whichever 
is later).
(c) direct Entry V olunteer airmen/ 
airwomen are not allowed to marry 
until the completion of initial combat 
course.
5. candidates who do not possess the required 
educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of 
paragraph 01 “a”, paragraph 02 “a” and paragraph 03 will 
be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview the height, 
weight and vision will be measured.  candidates whose 
height, weight and vision is below the standard specified in 
the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skills 
will not be interviewed. any candidate who may have a 
special skill or value to the service may at the discretion 
of the commander of the air force be considered even 
though he / she may not have the requisite height provided 
he / she possess the requisite academic and professional 
qualifications.
6. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Conditions of Service :- 
(a) airmen / airwomen will be governed by the air 
force act and other air force Regulations and 
orders with effect from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected Regular candidates will be trained in 
combat and in the selected trades accordingly. 
they will be required to perform combat duties 
and any type of duty, day and night, even under 
very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka 
or abroad.
(c) Selected V olunteer candidates will be trained in 
combat. they will be required to perform combat 
duties and any type of duty, day and night, even 
under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri 
Lanka or abroad.
8. Terms of engagement :
 
(a) Regular – (airmen/ airwomen)
 
 Selected candidates will be enlisted to the 
rank of Grade iii aircraftsman in the Regular 
air force and shall be required to serve for 12 
years in which 08 years will have to be served 
continuously whilst serving a further 04 years 
in the Regular air force (Reserve) when called 
to do so. opportunities exist for suitable airmen 
to  extend for further service on completion of 
eight years of service on the discretion of the 
commander of the Sri Lanka air force.  
(b) V olunteer – (airmen / airwomen)
 Selected candidates will be enlisted to the rank 
of Grade iii Leading aircraftsman /Leading 
aircraftswoman/ corporal in the V olunteer air 
force and shall be required to serve for 05 years 
continuously. opportunities exist for suitable 
airmen/airwomen to extend for further service 
on completion of five years of service on the 
discretion of the commander of the Sri Lanka 
air force.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1291
9. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of 
the Government of Sri Lanka.
10. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) Since a consolidated pay revision is in progress at present, and same revision will continue upto year 
2020, followings are the amounts payable till 2020.
  
year 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Rank (annum) (annum) (annum) (annum) (annum)  
aircraftman 207984.00 244608.00 281232.00 317856.00 354480.00 (7x300-19x370)
Leading aircraftman 214320.00 252060.00 289800.00 327540.00 365280.00 (4x300-19x370)
corporal 220656.00 259512.00 298368.00 337224.00 376080.00(1x300-10x370-9x495)
Sergeant 227808.00 267996.00 308184.00 348372.00 388560.00 (3x370-9x495-3x660)
flight Sergeant 232848.00 273996.00 315144.00 356292.00 397440.00 (1x370-9x495-3x660)
Warrant Officer 242352.00 285204.00 328056.00 370908.00 413760.00 (7x495-14x660)
Master Warrant Officer 271452.00 319404.00 367356.00 415308.00 463260.00 (13x660)
  
(b) Other Allowances :-
 (1) cost of living allowance of Rs. 7800/- per month.
 (2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250/- per month after five years of service.
 (3) Hardlying allowance Rs 20/- Per day 
 (4) additional Hardlying  allowance Rs. 3880/- per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special  allowance (1) Rs. 2400/- per month (Rs.80/- will be paid for perday).
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000/- per month.
 (7) uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 170/- per month.
 (8) Ration allowance Rs. 14213.70 per month (if permitted to live out Rs.473.79 per day).
 (9) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (10) adjustment allowance as applicable.
 (11) three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for airman/airwoman, spouse & children).
 (12) Reimbursement of bus fare for living in airman/airwoman to travel from the Base/Station to the 
hometown once a month.
 (13) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
 (14) free medical facilities (including for families if applicable).
 (15) Married airman/air woman permitted to live - out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence 
to place of work within 30 miles radius.  
 (16) Rent allowances for married airman/airwoman are not in occupation of a government married quarter. 
Sergeant and below Rs. 1200/- to Rs. 2750/- per month. and flight Sergeant and above Rs.1,350/- to  
Rs. 3,300/-
 (17) accommodation – free for personnel living in
 (18) disturbance allowance – When proceeding on duty outside permanent station.(Rates vary with married/
unmarried)
 (19) Good conduct badge pay – Paid to personnel whose behavior and general conduct are maintained at a 
high standard. (Rs.30.00 to Rs.511.50 per month)
 (20) instructional pay – Rs.425.00 to Rs.510.00 per month
 (21) overseas  allowances will be paid as per air force pay code
 (c) Pensions / Gratuities:-  Payable in terms of the air force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. all airmen and airwomen are contributors to the Widows and orphans Pension (armed 
force) Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension (armed forces) Scheme 
Regulations 1970.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1292
11. Instructions to Applicants :- 
(a) applications should be in terms of the form 
specified below. All cages of the application 
should be filled with much details as possible. 
(b) candidates who are in Government Service/
corporations/Boards/civil Establishments should 
forward their applications through their Heads 
of departments /corporations /Boards/civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to the 
effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
summoned for interviews or when called upon 
to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate 
issued for the purpose of the Education code 
will not be accepted).
(2) Certificate in support of the educational 
qualifications required:
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training 
and or experience (if any) obtained from 
a recognized institution will be an added 
advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One 
of these should be from the Principal of 
the last school attended and the other from 
the responsible person who has known the 
applicant for more than two years or from 
the present employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities 
and cadetting etc.
12. Interviews :-
(a) the candidates considered suitable for the 
interview will be required to appear for an 
interview at their own expenses before an air 
force Recruiting Board. 
(b) interviews will be held at Sri Lanka air force 
Base anuradhapura, Sri Lanka air force 
combat training School diyathalawa, Sri Lanka 
air force trade training School Ekala and Sri 
Lanka air force Station Koggala on 20, 21, 22, 
23, 24, 27, 28, 29, 30 june 2016 and 01,04,05 
july 2016 from 0800 Hrs to 1300 Hrs for Male  
candidates. 
(c) interviews will be held at Sri Lanka air force 
trade training School Ekala on 07th and 08th 
july 2016 from 0800 Hrs to 1300 Hrs for female 
candidates.  
13. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
interviews, he/she is to produce the National identity 
card. candidates who do not have the National identity 
card could produce some other form of the accepted 
identification. However, candidates will not be enlisted 
with out the National identity card.
14. candidates likely to be suitable following their 
interviews will be required to present themselves before 
an air force Medical Board. the required number of 
candidates per trade will be selected according to merit 
order.
15. any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. any form 
of canvassing or attempt to influence the selection of a 
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates. 
16. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after the selection.
17. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified.
  GP 
bulathsinghala,
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po Box 594,
colombo.
aPPLicatioN  foR  aiRMEN/aiRWoMEN  iN  tHE 
SRi  LaNKa  aiR  foRcE
01. full Name :–––– –––––––.
 (according to National identity card)
02. National identity card Number :–––––––––––.
03. applied t rade :–––––––––––. 
04. Postal address :–––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
06. Nearest air force Station :–––––––––––.
07. Nearest Police Station to Permanent address :––––––.
08. district :–––––––––––.
09. Electorate :–––––––––––.
10. GS division :–––––––––––. 
11. t elephone Number :–––––––––––.
12. date of Bith :–––––––––––.
13. age (as at 15th july 2016) :
 y ears :–––––––,  Months :––––––––,  days :––––––.
14. Married or Single :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1293
15. Gender :–––––––––––.
16. Height: - feet :–––––––––––.   inches :–––––––––––.
17. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination:-
 Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G.c.E. (a/L) Examination:-
 Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––.
 (Eg: technical, training and Experience etc.)
20. details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––.
21. other achievements of note at school or with outside 
organizations :––––––––––.
                                                     
22. if previously applied for the armed forces or Police 
give details :––––––––––.
23 Have you been convicted or bound over by a civil or 
Military court? if so, give details :––––––––––.
24. Particulars of testimonials :––––––––––.
 Name Description Permanent Address
   
25. declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honour that the answers given to the 
above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief 
are correct. i have read and understood the procedure 
which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in 
respect of those candidates who are selected as airwomen 
in the Sri Lanka Regular air force published in the Gazette 
of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
06–832
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  AIR  fORCE 
Airmen / Airwomen and 
Regular Air Force Airmen / Airwomen Vacancies 
as Direct Entry
V acaNciES exist in the Regular force of the Sri Lanka 
air force for airmen / airwomen in the trades are given 
below.
1.   (a) Trades & Educational Qualifications Required:-
  
    (1)  Aeronautical Engineering Trades (male)
      (a) air frame Mechanic 
  (b) aero Engine Mechanic 
  (c) aero Electrical & instrument Mechanic 
   
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including ordinary passes in Sinhala / 
tamil, English languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics / 
Science is essential.
 (2)  General Engineering Trades (male)
  (a) armament Mechanic 
  (b) Motor transport Mechanic
  (c) Surface assistant 
  (d) air Photographer
  (e) General Mechanic
  (f) t urner
  (g) Sheet Metal Worker
  (h) carpenter Mechanic  
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including ordinary passes in Sinhala / 
tamil, English languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics / 
Science will be an added qualification.
  (i) operator Motor t ransport  
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
(additional and optional subjects not 
considered) including ordinary passes in 
Sinhala / tamil languages. Possession of a 
Light Vehicle driving License is essential. 
Priority will be given to those who possess 
a valid heavy vehicle driving license.
 (3) Electronics and Telecommunication 
Engineering Trades 
  (a) air Radio Mechanic (Male)
      
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including ordinary passes in Sinhala / 

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1294
tamil, English languages, Mathematics and 
Science. a credit pass for Mathematics / 
Science is essential.
 
  (b) t elephonist (Male)
  (c) computer technician (Male)
   
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including ordinary passes in Sinhala / tamil 
and English languages. 
 (4) medical Trades
  (a) Nursing assistant (Male /female)
     
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple pass in English language 
and credit passes in Sinhala / tamil/ 
Mathematics/ Science and one other subject. 
Having following passes at the GcE (a/L) 
Examination from Science / Maths Stream 
in one sitting will be added advantage for 
selection and a qualification for advance 
training under Ministry of Health services 
mentioned therein.
  Having credit pass for - Nursing  
  English in GcE (o/L)   diploma
  examination with 
  Simple 03 Passes for 
  Bio/ Maths/ 
  Agriculture streams in 
  GcE (a/L) examination.                                           
  Having credit pass for  - Pharmacist
  English in GcE (o/L)   Medical 
  examination with   Laboratory
  Simple Passes for   t echnologist
  Biology/Combined 
  Maths/ Physics/
  Agriculture and credit 
  pass for chemistry  
 
  Having credit pass for  - EcG/EEt
  English in GcE (o/L)   EEG technician
  examination with 
  Simple Passes for 
  Chemistry, Physics / 
  Agriculture  and credit 
  pass for biology / 
  Combined maths  
  Having credit pass  - occupational 
  for English in GcE   t herapist X Ray
  (o/L) examination   t echnician 
  with Simple Passes for   Physiotherapist
  Chemistry, Biology/ 
  Combined maths and 
  credit pass for Physics 
  (b)  dental assistant   (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including ordinary Pass in English 
Language and credit Passes in Sinhala / 
tamil language, Mathematics, Science and 
one other subject. Having three passes at 
the GcE (a/L) Examination from Science 
Streams in one sitting (Biology / combine 
Mathematics / chemistry / Physics or 
agriculture) will be added advantage for 
selection and a qualification for advance 
training under Ministry of Health Services.
 (5)  Construction Equipment Technician 
(male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language. a ordinary Pass for English 
will be an added qualification.
 (6) Administrative Trades (male)
  (a) administrative assistant 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages and a credit 
in Mathematics / Science / Business & 
account Studies. Knowledge on computers 
(Microsoft Office package) will be an added 
Qualification.
  (b) accounts assistant 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages and a credit in 
Mathematics / Business & account Studies. 
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office 
package) will be an added Qualification.
  (7) Operations Trades
  (a) operations air (Male)
   Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala / tamil 
language and a credit in English language.
  (b) fire fighter (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1295
including ordinary Passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages.
  (c) operations Ground (Male / female) 
  (d) dog Handler (Male)
 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language.
 (8) Logistic Trades
  (a) Logistic assistant (Male )
  (b) Refueller (Male)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages and a credit 
in Mathematics / Science / Business & 
account Studies. Knowledge on computers 
(Microsoft Office package) will be an added 
qualification.
  (c) Ground Steward (Male / female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language. Priority will be given 
to candidates who have a ordinary Pass 
for English or fluent in English language 
with communication skill.  Experience 
and professional qualification in field of 
hospitality at tourist Board authorized 
Hotels (Ex: Waiter / Barman/House Keeper/ 
Room Boy /Room attendance /Room 
Steward).
  (d) catering assistance (Male) 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language. Priority will be given to 
candidates who have a ordinary Pass for 
English.
  (e) uniform out fitter (Male / female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala/ tamil 
language. operating  of juKi machine 
(over lock, Button Hole, Button attached, 
double Needle, Bar tack), cutting and 
designing of garments without blocks and 
technical knowledge on juKi machine will 
be an added qualification.
  (f) cabin attendance (Male / female) 
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language and a credit in English 
language. fluent in English language 
with strong communication skill and 
having experience as a cabin assistant 
with pleasing personality will be an added 
qualification. Capable of reach to 212cm 
height by both hands (using toe). 
 (9)   Police (Male / Female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including ordinary Passes in Sinhala / 
tamil and English languages. Priority will 
be given to male and female candidates 
those who measured 5' 8'' and 5' 6'' or above 
in height respectively.
 (10) Dancer (female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala/ 
tamil language. ability for dancing, 
Suitable figure for dancing, ability for 
singing, playing dancing instruments and 
capability for make-up will be considered 
as special qualification.
 (11) Physical Training Instructor (Male/ 
female)
  Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE (o/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an ordinary Pass in Sinhala / 
tamil language. outstanding competencies 
in National Level sports will be special 
qualification at selection. The practical test 
should pass all the candidates who were 
passing the preliminary interviews.
Vacancies exist in the Regular Sri Lanka air force for 
airmen/airwomen of the in the trades are given below as 
direct Entry.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1296
2.   (a) Trades & Educational Qualifications Required:-
  (1)  Civil Engineering Trades 
(a)  Quantity Survey assistant - (Male / female)
 (i) Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE 
(o/L) Examination at not more than 
two sittings including an ordinary 
pass in Sinhala /  tamil language.
 (ii) National Certificate in Quantity 
Surveying (Nct  Q/S) – the 
candidates who possess the one year 
certificate (full time) or three – year 
part time NCT certificate in Quantity 
Surveying will be confirmed in 
Leading aircraftman rank and 
the candidates who possess three 
years of working experience in the 
respective field for the preparation of 
bill of quantities, tender documents, 
contract bills and the evaluation 
of tenders will be awarded with 
corporal rank
(b)  draughtsman - (Male)
  (i) Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE 
(o/L) Examination at not more than 
two sittings including an ordinary 
Pass in Sinhala / tamil language.
 (ii) National Certificate in Engineering 
draughtsmanship – the candidates 
who possess the one year certificate 
(full time) in Engineering 
draughtsmanship will be awarded 
with Leading aircraftman rank 
and the candidates who possess the 
above qualification with minimum 
of three years working experience 
which is obtained after having 
completed the relevant qualification 
will be confirmed in Corporal rank.
 
(c)  forman (civil/Electrical/Mechanical) - 
  (Male)
 (i) Passes in 06 subjects at the GcE 
(o/L) Examination at not more than 
two sittings including an ordinary 
Pass in Sinhala /  tamil language.
 (ii) National Certificate in Technology 
Nct (civil / Electrical / Mechanical 
Engineering) the candidates who 
possess the three – year part time 
NCT certificate or any other 
equivalent qualifications awarded 
by Government technical colleges 
with three years of experience will 
be confirmed in Corporal rank and 
the candidates who possess less than 
three years of experience will be 
confirmed in Leading Aircraftman 
rank. 
3.   Other Requirements :- 
 (a) Candidates must fulfil the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka 
Regular / V olunteer air force: -
 (1) Nationality - Must be a citizen of Sri 
Lanka.
 (2) age as at 15 November 2016 
 -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 23 years (Regular Male)
 -  Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 22 years (Regular female)
 
  for civil Engineering trades 
 - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 28 years (Regular - Male)
 - Not less than 18 years and not more 
than 26 years (Regular -female)
  
 (3) Height - 5 feet 5 inches and above (Male)
    5 feet 3 inches and above (female)
 (4) Weigh :-  17 < BMi < 26 (Male)
        17 < BMi < 25 (female)
    Weight (Kg)
  Body Mass index =  ––––––––––
    Height
2 (m)  
 (5) Vision colour Standard: cP2
 (6) Visual acuity: 6/6 each eye (without 
spectacles)
 (7) civil Status: 
 (a) Regular airmen / airwomen candidates 
must be unmarried and not allowed to 
marry until the completion of two years 
from the date of enlistment and until one 
year after the completion of the Basic 
trade training course and whichever is 
later). 
 (b) dancer trade Regular airwomen is not 
allowed to marry until the completion 
of five (5) years from the date of 
enlistment.
 (c) direct Entry airmen / airwomen are not 
allowed to marry until  the completion 
of initial combat course.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1297
4.  Candidates who do not possess the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 
01 “a”, paragraph 02 “a” and paragraph 03 will be rejected.  On arrival for the first interview the height, weight and vision 
will be measured.  Candidates whose height, weight and vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification 
and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the 
service may at the discretion of the commander of the air force be considered even though he / she may not have the 
requisite height provided he / she possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
5.  Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
6.  Conditions of Service :
 (a) airmen / airwomen will be governed by the air force act and other air force Regulations and orders 
with effect from the date of enlistment.
 (b)  Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly. they will be required 
to perform combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any 
part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
7.  Terms of engagement :
 
 (a) Regular airmen and airwomen
  Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman / aircraftwomen / 
leading aircraftsman in the Regular air force and shall be required to serve for twelve (12) years in 
which eight (08) years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a further four (04) years 
in the Regular air force (Reserve) when called to do so. opportunities exist for suitable airmen / 
airwomen to extend for further service on completion of eight years of service on the discretion of 
the commander of the Sri Lanka air force.  
8. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of 
the Government of Sri Lanka.
9. Pay and Allowances:
(a) Since a consolidated pay revision is in progress at present, and same revision will continue upto year 
2020, followings are the amounts payable till 2020.
  
year 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Rank (annum) (annum) (annum) (annum) (annum)  
aircraftman 207984.00 244608.00 281232.00 317856.00 354480.00 (7x300-19x370)
Leading aircraftman 214320.00 252060.00 289800.00 327540.00 365280.00 (4x300-19x370)
corporal 220656.00 259512.00 298368.00 337224.00 376080.00(1x300-10x370-9x495)
Sergeant 227808.00 267996.00 308184.00 348372.00 388560.00 (3x370-9x495-3x660)
flight Sergeant 232848.00 273996.00 315144.00 356292.00 397440.00 (1x370-9x495-3x660)
Warrant Officer 242352.00 285204.00 328056.00 370908.00 413760.00 (7x495-14x660)
Master Warrant Officer 271452.00 319404.00 367356.00 415308.00 463260.00 (13x660)
  
(b) Other Allowances :-
 (1) cost of living allowance of Rs. 7800 per month.
 (2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service.
 (3) Hardlying allowance Rs 20 Per day 
 (4) additional Hardlying  allowance Rs. 3,880 per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 (5) Special  allowance (1) Rs. 2400 per month (Rs.80 will be paid for per  day).
 (6) interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
 (7) uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 170 per month.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1298
 (8) Ration allowance Rs. 14213.70 per month (if 
permitted to live out Rs.473.79 per day).
 (9) Qualification pay where applicable (upto a 
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 (10) adjustment allowance as applicable.
 (11) three sets of holiday railway warrants per year 
(for airman/airwoman, spouse & children).
 (12) Reimbursement of bus fare for living in airman/
airwoman to travel from the Base/Station to 
the hometown once a month.
 (13) free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
  
 (14) free medical facilities (including for families if 
applicable).
 (15) Married airman/airwoman permitted to live - 
out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from 
residence to place of work within 30 miles 
radius.  
 (16) Rent allowances for married airman/airwoman 
are not in occupation of a government married 
quarter. Sergeant and below Rs. 1200 to                  
Rs. 2750 per month. and flight Sergeant and 
above Rs.1350 to 3300.
 (17) accommodation – free for personnel living in
 (18) disturbance allowance – When proceeding 
on duty outside permanent station.(Rates vary 
with married/unmarried).
 (19) Good conduct badge pay – Paid to personnel 
whose behavior and general conduct are 
maintained at a high standard. (Rs.30.00 to 
Rs.511.50 per month).
 (20) instructional pay – Rs.425.00 to Rs.510.00 per 
month.
 (21) overseas allowances will be paid as per air 
force pay code.
(c) Pensions / Gratuities. -  Payable in terms of the 
air force Pensions and Gratuities code 1981 and 
as amended from time to time. all airmen and 
airwomen are contributors to the Widows and 
orphans Pension (armed force) Scheme. Rate 
of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
10. Instructions to Applicants :- 
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicants 
own handwriting in terms of the from specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
filled with much detail as possible. Applications 
should be sent by registered post addressed to 
“coMMaNd REcRuitiNG officER, SRi 
LaNKa aiR foRcE tRadE tRaiNiNG 
ScHooL, EKaLa, KotuGoda” so as to 
reach there not later than 1200 noon on 30 june 
2016. the Envelope enclosing the application 
should be marked “aPPLicatioN foR 
REGuLaR /  aiRWoMEN” on the top left 
corner. applications received at Sri Lanka air 
force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date and 
time and not in accordance with the requirement 
of this notification and not in registered post 
will not be considered.
 (b) candidates who are in Government Service/ 
corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through 
their Heads of departments / corporations/ 
Boards/civil Establishments and should bear a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will 
be released if selected.
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals of the following documents when 
interviews or called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. 
(Certificate issued for the purpose of the 
Education code will not be accepted)
(2) Certificate in support of the educational 
qualifications required:
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training 
and or experience (if any) obtained from 
a recognized institution will be an added 
advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One 
of these should be from the Principal of 
the last school attended and the other from 
the responsible person who has the know 
of the applicant for more than two years or 
from the present employer (if employed)
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities 
and cadetting etc.
 (d) application of candidates who fail to produce 
document when required to do so will not be 
considered.
 (e) No original documents or copies of document 
should be attached to the application form.
 (f) the air force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1299
11. candidates considered suitable for the interview will 
be required to appear for an interview at their own expense 
before an air force Recruiting Board. Such candidates 
will be informed individually of place, date and time. 
12. on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for interviews, he  is to produce the National identity 
card. candidates who do not have the National identity 
card could produce some other form of the accepted 
identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted 
with out the National identity card.
13. candidates likely to be suitable following their 
interviews will be required to present themselves before 
an air force Medical Board. the required number of 
candidates per trade will be selected according to high 
marks merit at these interviews.
14. any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his testimonial. any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence the selection of a 
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates. 
15. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after the selection.
16. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified.
  GP 
bulathsinghala,
 air Marshal,
 commander of the air force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka air force,
Po Box 594,
colombo.
aPPLicatioN foR aiRMEN/aiRWoMEN iN tHE 
SRi LaNKa aiR foRcE
01. full Name :–––– –––––––.
 (according to National identity card)
02. National identity card Number :–––––––––––.
03. applied t rade :–––––––––––. 
04. Postal address :–––––––––––.
05. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
06. Nearest air force Station :–––––––––––.
07. Nearest Police Station to Permanent address :––––––.
08. district :–––––––––––.
09. Electorate :–––––––––––.
10. GS division :–––––––––––. 
11. t elephone Number :–––––––––––.
12. date of Bith :–––––––––––.
13. age (as at 15 November 2016) :
 y ears :–––––––,  Months :––––––––,  days :––––––.
14. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
15. Gender :–––––––––––.
16. Height: - feet :–––––––––––.   inches :–––––––––––.
17. G.c.E. (o/L) Examination:
 Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G.c.E. (a/L) Examination:
 Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––.
 (eg: technical, training and Experience etc.)
20 details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––.
21. other achievements of note at school or with outside 
organizations :––––––––––.
                                                     
22. if previously applied for the armed forces or Police 
give details :––––––––––.
23 Have you been convicted or bound over by a civil or 
Military court? if so, give details :––––––––––.
24. Particulars of testimonials :––––––––––.
 Name Description Permanent Address
   
25. declaration to be signed by the applicant:-
i declare on my honour that the answers given to the 
above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief 
are correct. i have read and understood the procedure 
which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in 
respect of those candidates who are selected as airwomen 
in the Sri Lanka Regular air force published in the Gazette 
of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant.
date :–––––––––––.
06–833

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1300
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
JuDICIAL  SERVICE  COmmISSION 
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment of Officers to the Post of Courts 
Stenographer (English) Grade III in the Courts 
management Assistant Service - 2016
APPLICATIONS are invited to recruit officers to the 
courts Stenographer (English) Grade iii of the courts 
Management assistant Service in the Scheduled Public 
Officers Service from those who possess the qualifications 
mentioned in this notice. 
02. the post is permanent and pensionable. 
03. Salary Scheme.– the post carries a salary scale of 
Rs. 13,990 - 10x145 - 11x170 -6x240 -14x320 - Rs. 23,230 
(Monthly). the initial salary step would be Rs. 13,990 
(this salary step is subject to amendments as per P. a. 
circular No. 03/2016). 
04. Age.– the applicants should be not less than 18 
years and not more than 30 years of age by the closing 
date. (upper age limit will not apply to applicants from 
Government Service). 
05. Educational Qualifications.– applicants should 
possess following qualifications. 
Should have passed G. c. E. (o/L) Examination in Six 
(06) subjects including Sinhala/t amil/English Language 
and Mathematics in not less than two sittings with credit 
passes for five (05) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil/
English Language and should have successfully completed 
a Stenography and typing course (English) at the National 
youth Services council, National apprentice and industrial 
training authority a technical college or at a Government 
Registered training institution by the closing date.
06. an examination will be held for the applicants and 
those who have reached the required limit of marks will be 
recruited after a Viva V oce. the selected applicants should 
serve in any part of the island in which they are called upon 
to serve after recruitment. 
07. Syllabus : 
(a) English Language and composition. 
(b) English Shorthand.– taking down in shorthand 
a passage dictated at 100 words per minute for 
05 minutes and transcribing the notes at a speed 
of 10 words per minute.
(c) English typewriting.– Minimum speed of 40 
words per minute for 20 minutes. 
(d) Viva voce.
Note.– Neatness and accuracy  will be taken into 
account in marking the scripts. 
08. the specimen form of application for this 
examination is published at the end of this notification. 
the applicants should prepare the application forms in 
compliance with the format set out below. the receipt 
obtained by paying a non refundable amount of Rs. 500 
administrative fee from any People's Bank branch to 
the credit of the account of "Secretary, judicial Service 
commission" No. 297100199025039 of the People's Bank, 
Dam Street Branch should be affixed on the due place of 
the applications. 
09. application should be sent under registered cover 
addressed to the Secretary, judicial Service commission 
Secretariat, colombo 12 to reach on or before 15th july 
2016. the envelope containing the application should be 
marked "courts Stenographer (English)" on its top left 
hand corner. applications received after the closing date 
will be rejected. Applications from Officers in Public 
Service should be submitted through their respective 
Heads of departments. 
10. any questions with regard to the application, the 
decision of the Secreta ry, judicial Service commission 
will be final. 
 
PradeeP Jayathilake,
 Secretary, 
 judicial Service commission. 
colombo 12, 
judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
30th May, 2016. 
judiciaL SERVicE coMMiSSioN 
oPen comPetitive examination for the recruitment of 
officers to the Post of courts stenograPher (english) 
grade iii in the courts management assistant 
service - 2016 
 index No. :––––––––––––.
 (For office use only)
(N. B.– The form should be correctly and legibly filled 
by own hand-writing of the applicant. Write the given 
number in the relevant cage)
01.   (i) Last name with initials :–––––––––.
  (ii) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––.
02. Gender :  female  01
    Male  02

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1301
03. Permanent address :–––––––––.
04. address to which the admission card should be sent to 
:–––––––––.
05. Permanent district :–––––––––.
06. t elephone Number : 
07. National identity card Number : 
08.  (a) date of Birth :–––––––––.
  (b) age as at the closing date :
   y ears :––––––,  Months :––––––,  days :–––––.
09. if already employed in the Government Service : 
  (i) Ministry/department :–––––––––.
  (ii) Present Post :–––––––––.
  (iii) date of appointment to the present post :–––––.
  (iv) Date of confirmation in the present post :–––––.
  (v) Official address :–––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications : 
 (indicate results of each examination separately with 
their index numbers)
 (a) G. c. E. (o/L) Examination : 
 y ear :–––––––––. index No. :–––––––––.
 Serial  Subject Grade 
 No. 
 y ear :–––––––––. index No. :–––––––––.
 Serial  Subject Grade 
 No. 
  (b) G. c. E. (a/L) Examination : 
   y ear :–––––––––.     index No. :–––––––––.
 Serial  Subject Grade 
 No.
 (c) details of the courses followed (indicate details as 
stipulated in para 05 of the Gazette) :–––––––––.
Note.– Affix below the receipt obtained by paying the 
relevant fee according to the instructions given in the 
circular so as not to be detached. 
i certify that to the above information given in this form 
are true and i also agree to be bound by the rules governing 
the examination. i am also aware that if any particulars 
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect before 
appointment, I am liable to be disqualified and if so found 
after appointment i am liable to be dismissed without any 
compensation.
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature. 
date :–––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department : 
i hereby certify that above applicant is an employee 
in this Ministry/department and that the information 
furnished by him/her are correct and that he/she could be/
could not be released from his/her present post, if selected 
to the above post. 
  ––––––––––––,
  Head of department. 
  Name :–––––––––.
  Stamp :–––––––––.
date :–––––––––.
06–922
––––––––––––––––
1ST  EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  
fOR  OffICERS  IN  DEVELOPmENT 
OffICERS'  SERVICE  - 2014(II) (2016)
1.0 IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for the officers in Grade III of Development Officers' 
Service will be held by the commissioner - General 
of Examinations in the month of October 2016 as per 
provisions of Para 10 of the approved service minute of 
Development Officers' Service published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary of the democratic Socialists Republic of 
Sri Lanka bearing No. 1745/11 dated 14.02.2012 revised 
by the Gazette Extraordinary of the democratic Socialists 
Rebpublic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1774/31 dated 
07.09.2012.
2.0 This examination for officers in Grade III of the 
Development Officers' Service will be held in Colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Matara, jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, 
trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, 
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. the list of 
relevant towns and town numbers are given below. the 

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1302
commissioner - General of Examinations reserves the 
right to cancel any center due to insufficiency of candidates 
or any other reason and decide an alternative as per the 
candidate's second preference of towns. the relevant 
section of the application should be filled by referring to 
the table of towns and town numbers given below. it will 
not be allowed to change subsequently the town/town 
indicated. 
 Town Town No. 
 colombo 01
 Kandy 05
 Galle 07
 Matara 08
 jaffna 10
 Mannar 11
 Mullaitivu 12
 t rincomalee 14
 Batticaloa 15
 Kurunegala 18
 anuradhapura 19
 Badulla 21
 Ratnapura 24
 Killinochchi 25
3.0  (i) this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner -General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him with regard to the 
same. 
 (ii) the rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates will be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
- General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations. 
4.0 eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed to 
posts in Grade III of Development Officers' Service and 
officers who have exercised their option to be absorbed in 
to Development Officers Service but not been absorbed, 
will become qualified to apply for this examination. 
Note.– Provisions in respect of the applicants in 
Provincial Development Officers' Service 
shall be issued by relevant Provincial Public 
Service commission in line with this Gazette 
Notification. For the convenience of separating 
the applications of the officers in public officers 
in each Provincial Public Service and officers in 
other institutions who apply for this examination, 
the code no should be entered when indicating 
the relevant service or institution in the title of 
the application. accordingly the code No. of 
the officers in the Combined Services is 10. This 
number should be indicated in the service station 
you belong to on the top right hand.  
5.0 the application for this examination should be in 
the form of the specimen appended to this notification 
and should be prepared by the candidate him/her self. 
applications should be sent by the Registered post 
through the respective Heads of departments to reach the 
Commissioner - General of Examinations, Organization 
and foreign Examinations branch, Department of 
Examinations, P. O. 1503, Colombo on or before 
25th July 2016. the name of the examination should 
be indicated at the top left hand corner of the envelope 
containing the application. applications received after the 
closing date and incomplete applications will be rejected. 
6.0 Identity of the Candidates.– candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examinatin hall to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they offer. 
for this purpose one of the following documents should be 
submitted to the supervisor. 
 (i) the National identity card issued by the 
department of Registrations of Persons.
 (ii) a valid passport. 
the candidature of those who fail to produce any 
of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled 
at the discretion of the commissioner - General of 
Examinations. all candidates are bound to comply with 
the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examination with regard to the conducting of 
this examination. further, candidates will be subjected to 
the punishment imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for violation of those rules and regulations. 
7.0 (i) Applications.– applications should be prepared 
in a paper of a4 size in such a manner that Para 
Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the first page and 
the other paragraphs on the other pages. the 
application could be typewritten but it should 
be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's 
own handwriting. application should strictly 
conform to the specimen appended and 
candidates are advised to send one application 
and not to send photocopies of the application. 
applications that do not comply with the 
specimen and that have not been perfected 
properly will be rejected without notice. Please 
indicate the title of the examination appearing 
the specimen in English language as well, on 
both Sinhala and tamil application forms. it 
is the responsibility of the candidate to make 
sure that the application form perfected by him/
herself complies with the specimen given in 
the examination notice and further it would be 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form. 

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1303
 (ii) Officers appearing for the examination for 
the first time need not pay examination fees. 
However, for subsequent sittings, Rs. 400 for 
the whole examination or for more than one 
subject and Rs. 200 for one subject should 
be paid at any post-office island-wide to be 
credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the 
comissioner General of Examinations. the 
receipt obtained thus should be affixed to the 
relevant cage of the applications form. it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
with the candidate. under no circumstances 
the examination fee shall be refunded. it will 
not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this 
examination in favour of another. further, 
stamps or money orders are not accepted for 
examination fees. 
8.0 the commissioner - General of Examinations will 
issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all 
candidates whose applications have been received. a 
notification will be published in newspapers as soon as 
the admission cards are issued to the candidates. if the 
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of 
such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the 
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in the 
advertisement. it would be advisable to keep the following in 
hand at the time of calling the department of Examinations 
stating your full name, address, National identity card 
Number and name of the examination : i. e. certified 
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept 
at your possession. in case of applicants outside colombo, 
letter of request furnishing the above particulars and a fax 
number to which a copy of the admission card is to be sent 
should be sent to the department of Examinations through 
fax. candidates should get their signature on the admission 
card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of 
the examination hall. 
Note.– issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination. 
9.0 the Heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations, 
enabling them to appear for the examination. No traveling 
expenses will be paid. 
10.0 the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English languages. candidates can sit for the examination 
in the language medium in which they sat for the entry 
examination to the relevant service or in an official language. 
in case of candidates who entered the service without a 
competitive Examination can sit for the examination in 
the language medium of their education or in an official 
language. it will not be allowed to change the language 
medium of examination applied for, subsequently. 
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject 
at different occasions at their discretion. However, they 
should score at least forty percent (40%) of the total marks 
allocated for each subject for a pass. (for further details, 
refer annex - 10 of Development Officers' Service minute). 
12.0 For the purpose of the official language policy, all 
officers should prepare and fill the applicaton forms in the 
official langauge. 
13.0 the commissiner - General of Examinations 
will release the results of the examination to the director 
General of combined Services and the lists of name of the 
candidates who have passed the exam will be published in 
the Government Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka. 
14.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit for 
a written eamination, which will consist of the following 
subjects : 
 Subject Marks Duration Subject 
    No. 
1. Office systems 100 01 hr. 01
2. accounting Systems 100 01 hr. 02
3. computer test 100 02 hrs. 03
  t otal 300
 14.1 Office Systems.– this paper shall be designed 
to test the candidate's basic knowledge on 
office systems adopted in government offices 
and practical use of that knowledge, proper 
understanding of official documents and the 
ability of presenting the ideas/observations 
in clear and brief minutes and the ability of 
drafting a letter according to an order given to 
the officer. 
 14.2 Accounting Systems.– it is expected to test 
candidate's knowledge in basic accounts 
adopted in government office, functions of 
cash control books. 
 14.3 Coumpter Test : 
 (i) Basic concepts of information technology. 
 (ii) Windows operating System.
 (iii) file Management. 
 (iv) Word Processing
  Basic skills, screen familiarization, editing 
texts. 
  aligning text, fonts and atrributes, 
indenting paragraphs, change of line 
spacing, Tab setting, finding and replacing 
text, spelling and grammar, thesaurus, 
working with columns, page setup, 

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1304
printing documents, creating tables, 
sorting texts, file management, mail 
merging, working with macros.
 (v) Spreadsheets
  Basic skills, formatting, editing, columns 
and ranges, insertion and deletion. 
 (vi) database
  Basic skills of introduction
  creating and using a database
  forms
  Linked forms, popup forms
  dialog and message boxes
  Queries
  Sorting
  obtaining reports
  Working with macro
 (vii) Presentation/illustration
  Basic skills, editing, formatting
  applying designs, clip art and graphs, 
  inserting images
  Slide transition and effects, animations 
using presentation tools, preparing 
masters, printing slides and notes. 
 (viii) internet
  introduction to internet, World Wide Web, 
How to navigate, practical internet. 
 (ix) E-mail
  introduction, basic skills, receiving 
e-mails, sending e-mails, replying, using 
attachments, creating and using nick 
names, composing messages. 
15.0 This examination notification will be published in 
Sinhala, tamil and English languages and in case of any 
inconsistency among texts, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
any matter not referred to herein will be decided by the 
director General of combined Services. 
 K. V . P. M. j. 
gamage, 
 director General of combined Services. 
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07, 
10th of june, 2016. 
(For office use only)
Specimen Application form 
fiRSt EfficiENcy BaR EXaMiNatioN of dEVELoPMENt officERS' SERVicE - 2014(ii) 2016
(Only the officers in Grade III of Development Officers' Service, who belongs to combined Services are eligible to 
apply as per this examination notification)
   t own town No. the service to which you belong 
1.     (Please refer the note of para 4.0 of the Gazette
2.     Notification carefully before filling this section)
(indicate the town in which you intend to sit the  
examination according to your preference as per  Language medium of examination :
Section 2.0 of the Gazette Notification) (This   Sinhala - 2
cannot be altered subsequently)   t amil - 3
      English - 4
     (indicate the relevant number in the box)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (e.g. : HERatH  MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa  GuNa WaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (e.g. : GuNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0 Place of work and address :
 2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution (In English block capitals) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1305
 2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be 
sent (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Gender : female  - 1 
   Male  - 0  
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
4.0 N. i. c. No. :
5.0 Subject/s to which you sit for : 
 Subject Subject No. 
6.0 Present Post :
 6.1 Post :––––––––––––.
 6.2 appointment Letter Number : cS/doS/:–––––.
 6.3 date of appointment to Grade iii of development 
Officers' Service/Date of officers exercised their 
option to be absorbed in to the development 
Officers' Service :–––––––––––.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first 
time ? :––––––––––––.
 7.2 if not, examination fees paid :––––––––––––.
 7.3 Post Office :––––––––––––.
 7.4 Receipt Number :––––––––––––.
 7.5 date :––––––––––––.
One edge of the receipt should be affixed so as 
not to be detached 
(it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certification of the Applicant : 
i declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the 
examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. ................... to the post office .................... on 
......................... is affixed above. I agree to abide by 
the decisions made by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting of the examination and all the 
provisions of the Examination act. 
  –––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
Note.– candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of his/her respective Head of department or an 
officer assigned to sign on behalf of him. 
ATTeSTATION OF SIGNATURe 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is 
an employee of my office and who is personally known to me 
placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................ 
Since he/she is sitting for the examination for the first time it is 
advisable to exempt him/her from the examination fee/has paid 
the examination fee and the receipt has been affixed. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of 
 the person attesting. 
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
9.0 CERTIFICaTE OF THE HEaD OF THE DEPaRTmEnT 
i certify that, 
 (i) The information furnished above were verified and ; 
 (ii) The officer belongs to the Combined Service/have 
exercised their option to be absorbed in to development 
Officers Service ; 
 (iii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination 
previously ;
 (iv) The officer has appeared for the examination previously 
and *he/she has affixed the receipt of the fees for the 
relevent examination ; 
 (v) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination. 
*(delete inapplicable words)
 –––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the department. 
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
06–925

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1306
EffICIENCy  bAR  ExAmINATION  fOR  
OffICERS  IN  GRADE  I  Of  PubLIC  
mANAGEmENT  ASSISTANTS'  
SERVICE – 2014(II) (2016)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination 
for officers in Class I of the Public Management Assistants' 
Service will be held by the commissioner - General of 
Examinations in the month of october 2016 as per the 
provisions of Section 8 and 15 of the Public Management 
assistants' Service Minute (interim Provisions) published 
in the Gazette extraordinary of democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,840/34 dated 11.12.2013 and 
annex 06. 
2.0   (i) Officers who have earned five salary increments 
on completion of an active and satisfactory 
service of five years after promotion to grade 
i before the implementation of this service 
minute shall be exempted from the requirement 
of passing the efficiency bar examination 
prescribed for Grade i under this service minute. 
 (ii) A period of concession of five years from the 
effective date of this service minute shall be 
given to the officers, who have not earned five 
salary increments on completion of an active 
and satisfactory period of five years from the 
date of promotion to Grade i, even though 
they have been promoted to Grade i before 
the implementation of this Service Minute, to 
pass the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination 
prescribed for Grade i under this Service Minute. 
3.0 This examination for officers in Grade I of Public 
Management assistants' Service will be held in colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Matara, jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, 
trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, 
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. the relevant towns 
and town numbers are given below. the commissioner 
General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel a 
centre due to insufficient number of candidates or other 
reason and decide the centre according to the second 
preference of the candidates at his discretion. If a sufficient 
number of candidates have not applied to have examination 
centers in all the proposed towns or in the majority of 
towns, the commissioner General of Examinations shall 
make arrangements to conduct the examination only in 
colombo. the relevant section of the application shall be 
completed according to the table in which towns and town 
numbers are indicated. it will not be allowed to change the 
town applied for subsequently. 
 Town Town No. 
colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
4.0 (i) this examination shall be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations and 
the candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by him. 
 (ii) the rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates shall be subjected to 
any punishment imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations. 
5.0 Qualifications.– Officers who have been appointed 
to Grade i of Public Management assistants' Service shall 
be qualified to sit for this examination. 
Note.– this examination shall be passed within 05 
years from the date of promotion to Grade i. 
Provisions for Provincial Management assistants' 
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial Public 
Service commissions and provisions shall be issued by the 
relevant institutions for other institutions concurrently to 
this Gazette Notification. 
In order to identify the applications of the officers in 
each Provincial Public Service and other institutions 
conveniently, code number should be used. accordingly, 
for the officers in combined service Code number is 10. 
this number should be entered in the upeer right side of 
the application where you have to mention the service you 
belong to. 
6.0 the application for this examination should be in the 
form of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants 
should prepare the applications themselves according to 
the specimen. applications prepared thus should be sent 

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1307
 (ii) the candidates appearing for the examination 
for the first time need not pay examination 
fees. However, for subsequent sittings Rs. 400 
for the whole examination or for more than 
one subject and Rs. 200 for only one subject 
should be paid at any post-office island-wide 
to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examinations. 
The receipt obtained thus should be affixed to 
the relevant cage of the applications form. it is 
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt 
with the candidate. further, stamps or money 
orders are not accepted for examination fees.   
9.0  the commissioner-General of Examinations will 
issue admission cards and a copy of the time table to all 
candidates whose applications have been received on or 
before the application closing date. A notification will 
be published in newspapers as soon as the admission 
cards are issued to the candidates by the department of 
Examinations. if the admission card is not received even 
after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps should be 
taken to notify the department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. You are informed 
to inquire from the department of Examinations with a 
copy of the application and a copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee in hand and stating  the name 
of the examination applied for, full name, address and the 
Nic number of the candidate. it would be advisable for 
candidates outside colombo to fax a letter of request to 
the department of Examinations through fax indicating 
the above details and a fax number for sending a copy of 
the admission.candidates should get their signature on the 
admission card attested in advance and surrender to the 
supervisor of the examination hall. 
Note.– issuance of an admission card to a candidate 
does not necessarily mean that  the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination. 
10.0 the Heads of departments should approve duty 
leave for officers to whom admission cards have been 
issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to 
enable them to appear for the examination. No traveling 
expenses will be paid. 
11.0 the written test shall be held in Sinhala, tamil and 
English media. The officers may answer three question 
papers either in the language medium in which they sat for 
the entry eamination to the service or in one of the official 
languages. candidates who entered the service without 
a competitive examination may answer three question 
papers in their medium of education or in one of the 
official languages. The language medium of examination, 
mentioned originally in the application, cannot be changed 
subsequently. 
by the registere d post through the respective Heads of 
departments to reach the,
commissioner - General of Examinations, 
organizations and foreign Examinations Branch, 
department of Examinations, 
P. o. 1503,
colombo. 
on or before 25th of july, 2016. the name of the 
examination should be indicated in the top left hand corner 
of the envelope of the application which is forwarded to 
the commissioner General of Examinations.  applications 
received after the closing date and applications in which the 
relevant details have not been furnished shall be rejected. 
7.0 Identity of the Candidates.– candidates shall be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they 
offer. for this purpose, one of the following documents 
should be submitted to the supervisor :–
 (i) National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons ;
 (ii) a  valid passport. 
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above mentioned documents might be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations. 
the candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
conducting the examination. candidates shall be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations. 
8.0  (i) Applications .– applications should be 
prepared in a paper of a4 size in such a manner 
that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the first 
page and the other Paragraphs on the other 
pages. the application could be typewritten 
but should be filled in correctly and legibly 
by candidate’s own handwriting. application 
should strictly conform to the specimen 
appended and candidates are advised as not to 
send more than one application or photocopies. 
applications that do not comply with the 
specimen and that have not been perfected 
properly shall be rejected without notice. 
Please indicate the title of the examination 
appearing on the specimen in English 
language as well, on both Sinhala and tamil 
application forms. it is the responsibility of 
the candidate to make sure that the application 
form perfected by him/her self complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice 
and further it would be advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the completed application form. 

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1308
12.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject at 
different occasions at their discretion. However they should 
score at least 40% of the total marks for each subject, 
for a pass. (Refer annex 06 of the Public Management 
assistants’ Service Minute). 
13.0 department of Examinations shall release the 
results of the examination to the director General of 
combined Services, Ministry of Public adminsitration and 
Management and names of the successful candidates will 
be published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka. 
14.0 examination Procedure.– candidates should sit 
for a written examination that will consist of the following 
subjects :–
 Subject Marks Duration  Subject Cut 
    No. off
     marks
 1 Establishment 100 01 1/2 hours 01 40
  Procedure and 
  Procedural 
  Rules
 2 Public finance 100 01 1/2 hours 02 40
  Management 
 3 current trends 100 01 hour 03 40
 14.1 establishment Procedure and Procedural 
Rules :
  this paper shall consist of two parts and 
one shall consist of the questions to test the 
proficiency of the experience gained on the 
knowledge of fundamentals of office systems, 
their importance, written communication, 
documentation and compiling formats and 
office activities. The other part shall consist of 
questions to test the knowledge on practical 
knowledge on matters contained in V olumes i 
and ii of the Establishments code and V olume 
i of the Procedural Rules of Public Service 
commission :–
Part I  –  this is a question paper consisting of 
multiple choice questions. duration 
is 30 minutes. (25 marks) ;
Part II  –  this is a question paper consisting of 
semi structured essay type questions. 
three questions out of four shall be 
answered. duration is 60 minutes.  
(75 marks).
 14.2 Public Finance Management :
  it is expected to test the candidates’ knowledge 
on the subjects in government departments, 
offices and ministries such as Financial 
control, custody of Public money, revenue and 
payment, budget estimates, supply and services 
(basis knowledge on board of survey and store 
keeping, financial regulations and auditing and 
basic banking practice):–
Part I  –  this is a question paper consisting of 
multiple choice questions. duration 
is 30 minutes. (25 marks) ;
Part II  –  this is a question paper consisting of 
semi structured essay type questions. 
three questions out of four shall be 
answered. duration is 60 minutes.  
(75 marks).
 14.3 Current Trends :
  this paper shall consist of a part designed to 
test the candidates’ knowledge on current, local 
and international events and a part designed to 
test the candidates’ knowledge on new trends on 
office managements, service delivery of public 
sector and good governance. this question 
paper shall consist of multiple choice questions 
and semi structured essay type questions. (all 
the questions shall be answered)
15.0 the decision of the director General of combined 
Services shall be final in any matter not provided for in this 
notification.
16.0 in the  event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this examination 
notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail. 
 K. V . P. M. j. 
gamage,
 director General of combined Services,
 
Ministry of Public administration and Management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07,
10th of june, 2016. 

<!-- page 41 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1309
  (For office use only)  
      
Specimen Application form 
EfficiENcy BaR EXaMiNatioN foR officERS iN GRadE i of PuBLic MaNaGEMENt 
aSSiStaNtS’ SERVicE -  2014(ii) (2016)
(Only the officers in Grade I of Public Management Assistants’ Service which belongs to the combined Service are 
qualified to apply as per this examination notification)
 Town Town No.  the service to which you belong
1.     (Please refer the note of para 5.0 of the Gazette
2.     Notification carefully before filling this section)
(indicate the town in which you intend to sit the  
examination according to your preference as per  Language medium of examination :
Section 3.0 of the Gazette Notification) (This   Sinhala - 2
cannot be altered subsequently)   t amil - 3
      English - 4
     (indicate the relevant number in the box)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
1.0 1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (eg. : HERatH  MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  KuMaRa  GuNa WaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (eg. : GuNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0 Name and address of the Service Station : 
 2.1  Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Block Capitals):–––––––––––.
 2.2  Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––.  
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be sent (in Block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  
3.0  Gender  :
  female  -  1
  Male  -  0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.).
4.0    N. i. c. No.  :
5.0 Subject/s you are offering :
  Subject Subject No.
  
6.0  Post held at present :
 6.1 Post :–––––––––––.
 6.2 appointment Letter Number :–––––––––––.
 6.3 date of appointment to Grade i of Public Management assistants’ Service :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 42 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1310
7.0  7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first 
time ? :–––––––––––.
 7.2 if not, Examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
 7.3 Post Office :–––––––––––.
 7.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
One edge of the receipt should be affixed so as not 
to be detached  (it is advisable to keep a photocopy 
of the receipt.)
8.0 declaration of the applicant : 
i, declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above and it is not necessary to pay the 
examination fee since i am sitting for the examination for 
the first time/the receipt issued on payment of examination 
fee of Rs. ...................... to the post office ...................... 
on ...................... is affixed above. I agree to abide by 
the decisions made by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on conducting of the examination and all the 
provisions of the Examination act. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of his/her respective Head of department 
or an officer assigned to sign on behalf of him. 
ATTeSTATION OF SIGNATURe 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. 
who is an employee of my office and who is personally 
known to me placed his/her signature in my presence on 
........................ Since he/she is sitting for the examination 
for the first time it is advisable to exempt him/her from 
the examination fee/has paid the examination fee and the 
receipt has been affixed. 
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of 
 the person attesting. 
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
9.0 CERTIFICaTE OF THE HEaD OF THE 
DeP ARTMeNT 
  i certify that, 
 (i) The information furnished above were verified 
and ; 
 (ii) The officer belongs to the Combined Service ; 
 (iii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the 
examination previously ;
 (iv) The officer has appeared for the examination 
previously and *he/she has affixed the receipt of 
the fees for the relevant examination ; 
 (v) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination. 
*(delete inapplicable words)
 –––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the department. 
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
06–926
––––––––––––––––––––
EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION fOR 
OffICERS IN GRADE III Of PubLIC 
mANAGEmENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE-
2012(I)(2016)
it is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for 
Officers in Class III of the Public Management Assistants' 
Service will be held by the commissioner General of 
Examinations, as per the relevant provisions of the 
approved Service Minutes, in the month of october 2016.
2.0 information on the eligibility of the candidates are 
furnished in provisions of Para 8,15 interim provisions 
and annex 04 of the approved service minute of Public 
Management assistants' Service published in the 
Government extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 
11.12.2013.
3.0 Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar 
prescribed for officers in Grade III in the service minute 
implemented before the new service minute is enforced, but 
either passed or been exempted from one or several subjects 
of the examination i.e. (1) Office Systems (2) Accounting 
Systems and (3) computer test shall be exempted from 

<!-- page 43 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1311
the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination on the basis 
of subject by subject prescribed by this service minute for 
the officers in Grade III. Should pass the Efficiency Bar 
Examination relevant to Grade iii within three years from 
the date of appointment.
4.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public 
Management assistants
’ Service will be held in colombo, 
Kandy, Galle, Matara, jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, 
trincomalee, Batticaloa, Kurunegala, anuradhapura, 
Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi. the relevant towns 
and town numbers are given below. it will not be allowed 
to change the town applied for subsequently  :
 Town Town No. 
colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
A centre without sufficient number of candidates will 
be cancelled and the relevant candidates will be directed to 
the next nearest centre available.
 
5.0  (i) this examination will be conducted by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations 
and the candidates will be bound by the rules 
and regulations imposed by him.
 (ii)  the rules and regulations for candidates 
have been separately printed in the Gazette 
Notification. Candidates will be subjected 
to any punishment imposed by the 
commissioner General of  Examinations for 
violation of these rules and regulations.
6.0 the application for this examination should be in the 
form of specimen  appended to this notification. Applicants 
should prepare the applications themselves according to 
the specimen. applications prepared thus should be sent 
by the registered post through the respective Heads of 
departments to reach the,
 commissioner-General Examinations,   
organizations and foreign Examinations Branch,
department of Examinations,
P.o. Box 1503,
colombo.
on or before 25th july, 2016. the name of the 
examination should be indicated in the top left hand corner 
of the envelope of the application. applications received 
after the closing date will be rejected.
the post and service station of the candidate, at the 
time he/she applies for the examination will be applicable 
for all matters relating to examination, and any changes 
which occur in the past and service station after sending the 
application will not be considered.
Note.– Provisions for provincial Management 
assistants
’ Service shall be issued by the 
relevant Provincial Public Service commissions 
and provisions shall be issued by the relevant 
institutions for other institutions concurrently to 
this Gazette Notification.
  
In order to identify the applications of the officers in 
each provincial public service and other institutions, 
conveniently code number should be used. accordingly, 
for the officers in combined Service code Number is 10. 
this number should be entered in the upper Right side of 
the application where you have to mention the service you 
belong to.
7.0 Identity of the Candidates.- candidates will be 
required to prove their identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they 
offer. for this purpose, one of the following documents 
should be submitted to the supervisor :–
  
 (i)  National identity card issued by the department 
of Registration of Persons ;
  
 (ii)  a valid Passport.
the candidature of those who fail to produce any of 
the above mentioned documents might be cancelled at the 
discretion of the commissioner General of Examinations.
8.0 Applications- applications should be prepared in 
a paper of a4 size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 
to 3.0 appears on the first page and the other paragraphs 
on the other pages. the application could be typewritten 
but should be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's 
own handwriting. application should strictly conform 
to the specimen appended and candidates are advised as 
not to send more than one application or photocopies. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen and 
that have not been perfected properly will be rejected 
without notice. Please indicate the title of the examination 
appearing on the specimen in English language as well, 

<!-- page 44 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1312
on both Sinhala and tamil application forms. it is the 
responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the 
application form perfected by him/her self complies with 
the specimen given in the examination notice and further it 
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed 
application form.
the candidates appearing for the examination for the 
1st time need not pay examination fees, However, for 
subsequent sitting, Rs. 400/= for the whole examination 
or for more than one subject and Rs. 200/= for only one 
subject should be paid at any post-office/ sub post office 
island-wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of 
the commissioner General of Examinations. the receipt 
obtained thus should be affixed to the relevant cage of the 
applications form. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
receipt with the candidate. it will not be allowed to transfer 
the fee paid for this examination in favor of another. Stamps 
or money orders are not accepted as Examination fee.
9.0 the commissioner General of Examination will 
issue admission cards to all candidates whose applications 
have been received on or before the application closing 
date. A notification will be published in newspapers as 
soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates by 
the department of Examinations. if the admission card is 
not received even after 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the organizations and foreign 
Examinations Branch of department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. When informing, 
the name of the examination applied for, full name, address 
and Nic number of the candidate shall be indicated. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the 
candidates to the department of Examinations through the 
fax number mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. further, it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information requested by 
the department of Examinations.
10.0 issuance of an admission card to a candidates does 
not necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the 
qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get 
their signature on the admission card attested in advance 
and surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. 
candidates without admission cards will not be permitted 
to sit for the examination. the Head of departments 
should approve duty leave for officers to whom admission 
cards have been issued by the commissioner General of 
Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. 
No traveling expenses will be paid.
11.0 this examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil & 
English media. The officers may sit for this examination 
either in the language medium in which they sat for the 
entry examination to the service or in one of the official 
languages. candidates who entered the service without 
a competitive examination may sit for the examination 
in their medium of Education or in one of the official 
languages. the language medium of examination, 
mentioned originally in the application, cannot be changed 
subsequently.
12.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at 
different occasions at their discretion. However they should 
score at least 40% of the total marks for each subject, for 
a pass.
13.0 commissioner- General of Examination will release 
the results of the examination to the director General of 
combined Service and names of the successful candidates 
will be published in the Gazette of the democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0 Examination Procedure.candidates should sit for 
a written examination that will consist of the following 
subjects.  
 Subject Subject  Marks Duration
  No.
  (i) Office systems 01 100 02 hrs
  (ii) accounting 02 100 02 hrs
   Systems
  (iii) computer test 03 100 1 1/2 hrs
 14.1 Office  Systems (Subject no. 01)
  this paper shall be designed to test the 
candidate's basic knowledge on office systems 
adopted in  government offices and practical 
use of that knowledge, proper understanding 
of official documents and the ability of 
presenting the ideas/observations in clear and 
brief minutes and the ability of drafting a letter 
according to an order given to the officer. This 
paper will consist of two parts.   
Part i- consists of question that require short 
answers. answers should be provided 
on the paper itself. Should answer all 
the questions.(25 marks)   
Part ii- a  question paper of structured essay 
type. Should answer 03 out of 04 
questions.(75 marks)
  
 14.2 accounting Systems (Subject no: 02)
   it is expected to test candidate's knowledge in 
accounting Systems adopted in government 
offices, functions of books and records of 
controlling account. Paper will consist of two 
parts.
Parts i- consists of question that require 
short answers. answers should be 
provided answers on the paper itself. 
Should answer all the questions.(25 
marks)

<!-- page 45 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1313
Part ii- a  question paper of structured essay 
type. Should answer 03 out of 04 
questions. (75 marks)
 14.3 Test on Computer Skills (Subject no: 03)
   objective of this test is to verify the candidate's 
skills on the following.
 (i) Basic concepts of information 
technology
 (ii) Windows operating System
 (iii) folder Management
 (iv) Word Processing : 
  Basic skills, Screen familiarization, 
Editing text aligning text, fonts and 
attributes, indenting Paragraphs, 
sub paragraphs, change of Line 
Spacing, tab setting, finding and 
replacing text, Spelling and Grammar, 
thesaurus, Working with columns, Page 
setup,  Printing documents, creating 
tables, Sorting text,
  folder Management, Mail Merging, 
Working with macros   
 (v) Spreadsheets : 
  Basic skills
  formatting
  Editing columns and rages, insertion and 
deletion
  Sorting data
  creating chats
  Printing
  @ function
  Working with Macros, folder 
Management
 (vi) internet and E-mail :
  introduction to internet, Basic Skills 
receiving mail sending mail,   
responding to mails
     
Working with attachments creating and 
using nicknames composing messages.
this paper consists of two parts.
Part i consist of 40 questions of McQ type 
that require short answers.   
 duration 45 minutes (40 marks)
Part ii 05 semi structured questions. duration 
45 minutes. (60 marks)
Notes: as per the annex 04 of the approved service 
minutes of Public Management  assistants
’ Service 
published in the Government Extraordinary 
Gazette of the democratic Socialists Republic of 
Sri Lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013, 
the Officers who have obtained Computer 
driving License awarded by National apprentice 
and technical training authority/ a degree in 
computer Science  recognized by the university 
Grants Commission/ Proficiency Level at NVQ 
4 or above from an institution approved by the 
tertiary Education and V ocational Education 
commission shall be exempted from the above 
computer test.
15.0 the decision of the director General of combined 
Services will be final in any matter not provided for in this 
notification.
16.0 in the event of any inconsistency between the 
Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Examination 
Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
    
 K. V . P. M. j. 
gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
Ministry of Public administration and Management,
independence Square,
colombo 07,
10th of june 2016.
  (For office use only)  
      
Specimen Application form 
EfficiENcy BaR EXaMiNatioN foR officERS iN GRadE iii of PuBLic MaNaGEMENt 
aSSiStaNtS’ SERVicE -  2012 (i)  (2016)
 Town Town No.  the service to which you belong
1.     (Please refer the note of para 6.0 of the Gazette
2.     Notification carefully before filling this section)
(indicate the town in which you intend to sit the  
examination according to your preference as per  Language medium of examination :
Section 4.0 of the Gazette Notification) (This   Sinhala - 2
cannot be altered subsequently)   t amil - 3
      English - 4
     (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
     (this cannot be changed subsequently)
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 46 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1314
1.0 1.1 Name in full (in block capitals) :––––––––––––.
  (e.g. : HERatH  MudiyaNSELaGE  SaMaN  
KuMaRa  GuNaWaRdHaNa)
 1.2 Name with initials at the end (in block capitals) 
:––––––––––––.
  (e.g. : GuNa WaRdHaNa, H. M. S. K.)
 1.3 Name in full (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.
2.0  2.1  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution (in Block capitals):–––––––––––.
 2.2  Name and address of the Office/Department/
institution (in Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––.
 2.3 address to which the admission card should be 
sent (in Block capitals) :–––––––––––.
  
3.0  3.1 Gender  :
  female  -  1
  Male  -  0
  (indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
 3.2 date of Birth : 
   y ear :  Month :  date : 
 3.3 N. i. c. No.  :
4.0  Subject/s you are offering now : (Refer Para No. 14.0 
of the Gazette notification) :
 Serial No.  Subject Subject No.
 01
 02
 03
5.0  Present Post :
 5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
 5.2 appointment letter number :–––––––––––.
6.0  6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first 
time ? :–––––––––––.
 6.2 if not, Examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
 6.3 Post Office :–––––––––––.
 6.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
 6.5 date :–––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt of examination fees paid of 
Rs. 400 for whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one 
subject. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
7.0 Certificate of the Candidate : 
i, declare that the information furnished above is correct 
and i am eligible to sit for the examination in the language 
medium mentioned above. The receipt affixed is to the value 
of Rs. .............. i agree to abide by the rules and regulations 
of this examination imposed by the commissioner-General 
of Examination. 
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– candidate should place his/her signature in the 
presence of his/her respective Head of department 
or an officer assigned to sign on behalf of him. 
ATTeSTATION OF SIGNATURe 
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who 
is an employee of my work station and who is personally 
known to me placed his/her signature in my presence on 
................. and further stamps to the vlaue of examination 
fee have been affixed.
 –––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of 
 the person attesting. 
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICaTE OF THE HEaD OF THE DEPaRTmEnT 
i certify that, 
 (i) The information furnished above were verified 
and ; 
 (ii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the 
examination previously ;
 (iii) The officer has appeared for the examination 
previously and *he/she has affixed the receipt of 
the fees for the relevent examination ; 

<!-- page 47 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1315
 (iv) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination. 
*(delete inapplicable words)
 –––––––––––,
 Signature and official stamp of the 
 Head of the department. 
Name :–––––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––––.
date :–––––––––––––.
06–927
––––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND 
INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
 
Recruitment to the Post of Speech Therapist-2016
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called from the Sri Lankan 
citizens who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned 
below to recruit to the post of speech therapist-Grade iii 
to hospitals which belong to the provinces and Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
 2. Educational qualification relevant to the post.– Should 
have a degree in speech therapy obtained from a university 
recognized by the university Grants commission or a full 
time diploma in speech therapy which is not less than 2 
years.
 3. Other General Qualifications:
 (a) Should be not less than 21 and not more than 35 
years of age by 20.07.2016
 (b) the effective date of the degree should be a 
date prior to the closing date of applications.
 (c) Should be physically and mentally fit to serve 
in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge duties 
of the post.
 (d) Should possess a good character.
 (e) Should have fulfilled all qualifications which 
are required for the recruitment to the post in 
all respects as at the closing date mentioned in 
this notification.
 4. Method of application:
 (a) the application should be prepared using 
a4 size papers in accordance with the 
specimen form of application appended to 
this notification.(Numbers from 1 to 9 of the 
application should appear on the first page of 
the paper and numbers from 10 to 13 should 
appear on the other side of the paper).
 (b) the receipt obtained by paying Rs.500/- to the 
credit of the account of 
“director General of 
Health Services collection of Exam fees” No. 
7041318 of the Bank of ceylon, thaprobane 
Branch should be affixed so as not detached, on 
the place where it is mentioned 
“Receipt” in the 
application.(Please keep a copy of the receipt)
 (c) candidate's signature should attested by a 
Principal of a Government School/ a justice of 
peace/ commissioner for oaths / an attorney 
at Law/ Notary in public/ public officer who 
holds a permanent and pensionable post in staff 
grade in Public Service or Provincial Public 
Service and obtain a consolidated salary of 
Rs.334,452 per annum.
 (d) the words 
“Recruitment for the post of Speech 
therapist -2016” should be mentioned on the 
top left hand corner of the envelop of size 9"x 
4" in which the duly completed application 
is enclosed and it should be sent to reach 
director (administration) 02, Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
“Suwasiripaya”, 385, Rev. Baddegama 
Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 10 
under registered post on or before 20.07.2016.
 5. Employees in Government or Semi Government 
Services should submit their applications through the 
respective Head of the department.
 6. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged and 
applications which will be received after the closing date 
will be rejected. the applications which are not complying 
to the above terms and the relevant specimen form given in 
this notification will be rejected without any notice.
 7. Method of Recruitment.– the applicants who 
obtained the highest marks on the basic of the results of 
written examination conducted by the Secretary to the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
or institute approved by the Secretary to the Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine among the 
applicants completed the qualifications mentioned in this 
notification will be recruited after referring them to an 
interview by which the physical fitness and qualifications 
are inspected (Number of officer due to be recruited will be 
decide by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous Medicine on the available vacancies and 
necessities of the Ministry).

<!-- page 48 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1316
8. Written Examination will be held on following subject:
 Paper Syllabus Time Maximum Cut-off marks
    Marks (Average marks
     required to be 
     passed)
1. intelligence test it is expected to test the candidate's 1 hour 100 40%
   ability of understanding the meaning, 
  quantification and coreletion between 
  the time and space through the 
  conclusion and responses of candidates 
  to the problems given in terms, 
  numbers and pictures.
   
2. General Knowledge it will be tested logical explanation as 1 hours 100 40%
  relevant to the post of Speech therapist   
9. Identity of Candidates.– candidates who have completed applications in all respect will only be called for the 
written examination. following documents of identity will be accepted to prove their identity at the written examination.
 (a) National identity card issued by the commissioner of Registration of Persons or valid passport or valid 
driving license.(A certified copy should be sent with the application)
 10. Terms of engagement:
 (a) this appointment will be on probation for a period of  three years.
 (b) Officers should obtain the relevant level of language proficiency as per the Public Administration  
circular No. 01/2014 and the incidental circulars.
 (c) First Efficiency Bar Examination should be passed within 03 year period of time.
 (d) this appointment will be subject to procedural rules of public Service commission, financial  
Regulations and Provisions in the Establishment code.
11. the numbers of appointments will be decided considering the number of existing vacancies. accordingly, 
if the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine , decided to grant permanent appointments to the post of 
Speech therapist, actions will be taken to appoint the candidates to the class iii of the said post in terms of the conditions 
in the scheme of recruitment. this post is entitled for the salary scale of Mt-5-2016 Rs.31,635-445x10-660x11-730x10-
750x10- Rs. 58,145 in terms of Public administration circular No. 03/2016 and the salary will be paid according to the 
provisions mentioned in the circular.
12. Applicants should carefully and accurately fill the particulars of education and other qualifications in the 
application. If the above certificates are proved to be counterfeit, actions will be taken to refer to the Criminal Investigation 
department for legal actions, to cancel the appointment and to enter his/ her name in the black list of those who are not 
permitted to be reemployed in the Public Service after taken legal actions against him/ her. 
13. Selected applicants should submit themselves for a medical examination during the first month of the 
appointment to certify that the applicant is physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of the Island and if an applicant 
is found to be unfit from the medical examination he/ she will be disqualified for remaining in post.
14. All persons selected as above will be subject to all laws and regulations relevant to the public officers, the 
provisions of the Establishments code of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies imposed by the Ministry 
of Health , Nutrition and indigenous Medicine , financial Regulations and other regulations and rules and orders that may 
be imposed by the Government from time to time.
15. if any problem arises regarding recruitment to the post of Speech therapist or any matter covered or uncovered 
by this Gazette notification, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine's 

<!-- page 49 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1317
will be final. In case of any in consistency between the 
Sinhala,tamil and English text in Sinhala will prevail.
 anura Jayawickrama,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
 indigenous Medicine.
   
 Ministry of Health ,Nutrition and indigenous Medicine,
“Suwasiripaya”,
385, Rev Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10,
06th june, 2016.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM
ministry of health, nutrition and indigenous medicine 
recruitment to the Post of sPeech theraPist - 2016
Read the Gazette Notification carefully before filling the 
application 
01.  (a)  Name with initials :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals):-ex: a.B.c. SiLVa
  (b)  Name in full (in English Block Letters) :––––––.
  (c)  Name in full (Sinhala/t amil)  :––––––––––––.
 
02. National identity card No. :-
  (copy should be attached)
03. Postal address:- 
 Sinhala/ tamil English
 .............................. ..............................
 .............................. ..............................
 .............................. ..............................
 .............................. ..............................
04.  (a) Permanent address: 
 Sinhala/ tamil English
 .............................. ..............................
 .............................. ..............................
 .............................. ..............................
 .............................. ..............................
  
  (b) t elephone No. :
 
   Mobile
 
   Permanent
  (c) Resident district: 
   Sinhala/tamil  :––––––––––––. 
   English  :––––––––––––.
  (d) are you a permanent resident in this district: 
   y es/ No  :––––––––––––.
  (e) if 
“yes”, How long  :––––––––––––.
05. date of Birth:- 
 day :––––––––,  Month  :––––––––, year  :–––––––––.
  age as to 20.07.2016 :
 days  :––––––––,  Months  :–––––––, years  :–––––––.
06. Sex:- 
 Male  female   (put a 
P in the relevant box)
07. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka  yes      No
 (Put a P in the relevant box)
08. civil Status:- 
  Married         Single
09. Educational Qualification :
  Degree/ Grade Grade point  University/ Academic
  Diploma  average (GPa) Institute Year
    and effective 
    date of the 
    degree/diploma  
10. Have you ever been convicted for any by a court of 
law? 
  y es       No
  (Mark P in the relevant cage)
 if so, give particulars :–––––––––––.
11. Certificate of the applicant :
  (a)  i certify that i carefully read and understood the 
Gazette notification and filled the application 
subject to all the conditions mentioned therein, 
and the particulars furnished by me in the 
application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge and belief.
  (b)  i am aware that if this declaration or any particulars 
contained in the application are found to be false 
after appointment i am liable to be dismissed.
   
Affix the receipt obtained by paying Rs. 500 to the credit 
of the account of 
“director General of Health Services 
collection of Exam fees” No. 7041318 of the Bank of 
ceylon, thaprobane branch.
  ––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting.
date :––––––––––.

<!-- page 50 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1318
12. attestation of the applicant's Signature:
  i, hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss............................ 
who is submitting this application is personally know to 
me and he/ she placed his/ her signature in my presence on 
......................
 –––––––––––––,
 Signature of the attester.
date :–––––––––––.
full Name of the person attesting :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
Official Frank of the attester :–––––––––––.
 13. Certification of the Head of the Department if the 
applicant is in Public Service/ Provincial Public 
Service.(delete irrelevant words)
  (i) i certify that the above applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss
............................................... holds the post of 
............ in this department. 
  (ii) i hereby certify that the particulars furnished in 
the above application are true and he/ she can/ 
cannot be released if he/ she will be selected to 
the post.
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of the department.
date :–––––––––––.
Name of the Head of the department :–––––––––––.
designation :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
Official frank of the Head Department :–––––––––––. 
06–750
–––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hEALTh, NuTRITION AND INDIGENOuS mEDICINE
Recruitment of the Students for the training of the Professions Supplementary to medicine and 
Para medical Services – 2016
aPPLicatioNS are called from Sri Lankan citizen to recruit trainees to the following training courses for the service 
of professions Supplementary to Medicine and paramedical services of the Ministry of Health,Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine.
 Code Name of the training Course Training Period The Medium in which 
 No.   the Training should 
    be proposed
 1 Medical Laboratory technilogist 02 years English 
 2 Pharmacist 02 years English
 3 Physiotherapist 02 years English
 4 occupational therapist 02 years English
 5 Radiographer 02 years English
 6 ophthalmic technilogist 02 years English
 7 dental technician  02 years English
 8 School dental therapist 02 years English
 9 Health Entomology Officer 02 Years English
 10 Prosthetics and orhotics 02 years English
 11 Public Heath inspector 1 ½ years (six month field training) Sinhala/tamil/English
 12 cardio Grapher 01 years English
 13 Electro Encephalor Graphy Recodist 01 years English
  
2. the Number of public recruited from the provinces would be selected according to the method which is 
approval by the Public Service commission on the basis of existing vacancies in the hospitals and insititutions under the 
line Ministry and Provincial council on Provincial basis.
3. the applicants who apply for 02 courses or more than two must apply according to the appendix 01 attached 
to this.that appendix is prepared according to the priority order which the ministry consider priority when choosing 
applicants for courses. therefore, applicants who apply for more than one course,the selections must be based on the 
sequence mentioned in the appendix 01.applicants should be entered in to the 1st course selected and they would not be 
granted any opportunity for entering into the next course or transferring to any other course.

<!-- page 51 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1319
4. these  courses are full-time courses.therefore, the students who study at any other institute in week days and 
Saturday morning in order to follow a full time course in any university, Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine or another governtment institute  should not apply for this.if  anyone applies with such conditions and if it 
reveals later , he / she will be dismissed from the course/post and all the bearing expenditures spent for he/she will be 
reimbursed. if any one who follows a full – time course in a university,intens to apply , action should be taken as follows. 
applications of those who have already been registered for full –time course under the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine will be rejected.
 4.1 you should cancel your registration by recruitment date to the course if you had been registered or have 
been registered for a full- time course in an any institute such as a university or any other Governtment 
institute someday.applicants such as those who are not attending to the lectures or who had not attended 
to the lectures should also cancel their registration before that date as you would be treatted as a scholar 
of a university. Enough Written evidence should be with you in order to prove that whenever necessary.
 4.2 if you  have completed a degree in any university,the effective date should be prior to the recruitment 
date to the course.
for Consideration :-
* You should notice that if all the above conditions from 4.1-4.2 been fulfilled it would not mean by any 
sentence of this Gazette notification that you should be granted the course that you applied for.
* If you have not obtained considerable Z-score or have not fulfilled any other condition from 4.1 to 4.2 
you will not be eligible for these courses on any basis.
* Further you are informed that even though you have obtained a sufficient Z-core and have been fulfilled 
the other conditions unless you have fulfilled the conditions from 4.1 to 4.2 will not be eligible for these 
courses on any basis.
5. Education  and other relevant Qualification for the post :
 Code  Training  GCE O/L Qualifications GCE a/L Qualifications Other specific 
 no. Course   qualifications
     relevant for the 
     training Course
 
1.  Medical 
  Laboratory
 t echnologist
2.  Pharmacist
3.  Physiotherapist
Should have passed the GcE (o/L) 
examination in six subject with four 
credit Passes including Sinhala 
language/tamil Language.
Mathematics, Science in one sitting 
and English Language in not more than 
two sittings.
Should have passed the GcE (o/L) 
examination in six subjects with 
four credit Passes including Sinhala 
Language /tamil Language. 
Mathematics,Science in one sitting and 
English Language in not more than two 
sittings.
Should have passed the GcE (o/L) 
examination in six subjects with 
four credit Passes including Sinhala 
Language/tamil Language.
Mathematics,Science in one sitting and 
English Language in not more than two 
sittings.
Should have passed 2 sujbects 
from Physics, Biology, agriculture, 
combined Math's in one sitting 
with a credit Pass for Chemistry 
at the G.c.E (a/L) Examination in 
2014/2015
Should have passed 2 sujbects 
from Physics, Biology, agriculture, 
combined Math's in one sitting 
with a credit Pass for Chemistry 
at the G.c.E (a/L) Examination in 
2014/2015
Should have passed 2 sujbects from 
chemistry, Biology, agriculture, 
combined Math's in one sitting 
with a credit Pass for Physics at 
the G.c.E (a/L) Examination in 
2014/2015
No
No.
No.

<!-- page 52 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1320
 Code  Training  GCE O/L Qualifications GCE a/L Qualifications Other specific 
 no. Course   qualifications
     relevant for the 
     training Course
Should have passed the GcE(o/L) 
examination in six subjects with 
four credit Passes including Sinhala 
Language/tamil Language.
Mathematics, Science in one sitting 
and English Language in not more than 
two sittings.
Should have passed the GcE(o/L) 
examination in six subjects with 
four credit Passes including Sinhala 
Language/tamil Language.
Mathematics, Science in one sitting 
and English Language in not more than 
two sittings.
Should have passed the GcE(o/L) 
examination in six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit 
Passes for Sinhala Language / tamil 
Language, Mathematics, Science 
including another one subject in not 
more than two sittings.
Should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six subjects icluding 
English Language with at least credit 
Passes for Sinhala Language/t amil 
Language, Mathematics, Science 
including another  one subjects in not 
more than two sittings.
Should have passed the G.c.E.(o/L ) 
examination in six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit 
Passes for Sinhala Language/t amil 
Language, Mathematics, Science 
including another one subject in not 
more than two sittings.
Should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit 
Passes for Sinhala Language /t amil 
Language, Mathematics, Science 
including another one subjects in not 
more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry Biology, agriculture, 
combined Math's in one sitting 
with a credit Pass for Physics at 
the G.c.E.(a/L) Examination in 
2014/2015.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry Biology, agriculture, 
combined Math's in one sitting 
with a credit Pass for Physics at 
the G.c.E.(a/L) Examination in 
2014/2015.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, Biology, agriculture, 
in one sitting with a credit Pass 
for Physics at the G.c.E.(a/L) 
Examination in 2014/2015.
Should have passed in 2 
subjects from Physics, Biology, 
agriculture,combined Math's in 
one sitting with a credit Pass for 
Chemistry at the G.c.E.(a/L) 
Examination in 2014/2015.
Should have 2 passed subjects from 
chemistry, Physics, agriculture 
in one sitting with a credit Pass 
for biology at the G.c.E.(a/L) 
Examination in 2014/2015.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, Physics,agriculture 
in one sitting with a credit Pass 
for biology at the G.c.E.a/L 
Examination in 2014/2015
No
No.
No.
No
* only the 
female 
applicants 
are permitted 
to apply.
* Height should 
be 4 feet 10 
inches or 
more
* all the applicants 
  should be single/
bachelor.
* only the Male 
applicants are 
permitted to 
apply.
4.  occupational
 therapist
5.  Radiographer 
6.  ophthalmic
 t echnologist
7 dental
 t echnician 
8 School
 dental
 therapist
9 Health  
 Entomology  
 Officer 

<!-- page 53 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1321
 Code  Training  GCE O/L Qualifications GCE a/L Qualifications Other specific 
 no. Course   qualifications
     relevant for the 
     training Course
Should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six subjects with 
four credit Passes including Sinhala 
Language /t amil Language, Science, 
Mathematics, English Language in not 
more than two sittings.
Should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit 
Passes for Sinhala Language /t amil 
Language, Mathematics, Science 
including one subject in not more than 
two sittings.
Should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six subjects including 
English Language with at least credit 
Passes for Sinhala Language /t amil 
Language, Mathematics, Science 
including another one subject in not 
more than two sittings.
Should have passed the G.c.E. (o/L) 
examination in six subjects including 
English Language with four credit 
Passes with at least credit Passes for 
Sinhala Language /t amil Language, 
Mathematics, Science including another 
one subject in not more than two sittings.
Should have passed 2 subjects 
from agriculture, combined, 
Mathematics, Physics, Biology, 
chemistry at  least a credit Pass for 
biology or Physics in one sitting 
at the G.c.E a/L Examination in 
2014/2015.
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, Physics agriculture in 
one sitting with a credit Pass for 
biology or Combined maths at 
the G.c.E. a/L Examination in 
2014/2015
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, Physics in one sitting 
with a credit Pass for biology at 
the G.c.E. a/L Examination in 
2014/2015
Should have passed 2 subjects from 
chemistry, Physics in one sitting 
with a credit Pass for biology at 
the G.c.E. a/L Examination in 
2014/2015
06. Other General Qualifications :
 (a) the applicants those who wish to apply for course No. 1,2,3,4,5,10 should be not less than 18 years 
and not more than 35 years at the date  of closing applications and those who wish to apply for course 
No. 6,7,8,9,11,12,13 should be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years  at the date of closing 
applications.
 (b) y ou should agree to serve at least 10 years in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service after the 
training.
 (c) Should be with good physical and mental condition.
 (d) Should have resided in the district from where you apply for a 03 years continuous period to the closing 
date of applications.
07.  Method of Application :
 (a) the application should be prepared according to the specimen herewith. a4 size papers should be used 
for this.From No.01 to 9 (a) should be in the first page and from 9(b) to 12 should be in the second 
page.applications should be prepared in accordance with the above mentioned instructions.only one
No
only the Male 
applicants are 
permitted to 
apply.
Height should 
be 5 feet and 2 
inches or more.
No
No
10 Prosthetics 
 and orthotics
 
11 Public Health 
 inspector
12 cardio  
 Grapher
13 Electro  
 Encephalor  
 Graphy
 Recordist

<!-- page 54 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1322
   application should be forwarded when applying for 
02 or more courses. in such occasions, appendix 01 
according to the paragraph 03 should be forwarded 
with the applications. (the priority list of the courses 
for selection is mentioned in appendix 01)
 (b) the receipt obtained paying as follows to the credit 
of the account of ''director General of Health 
Services collection of Exam fees'' No. 7041318 of 
the Bank of ceylon, thaprobane Branch should be 
affixed as not be detached on the place where it is 
mentioned ''Receipt '' in the application.(Please keep 
a copy of the receipt )
  applying for 01 course – Rs.300/-
  applying for 02 courses – Rs.500/-
  applying for 03 courses – Rs.800/-
  applying for 04 courses – Rs.1100/-
  applying for 05 or more courses – Rs.1400/-
 (c) the attestation of the applican't signature should 
be done by an officer who serve in Sri Lanka 
administrative Service/Sri Lanka Education 
administrative Service / Sri Lanka accountancy 
Service /Government Principal /justice of Peace / 
Lawyer or by an officer who earns the annual salary 
not less than Rs. 334,452 and hold a permanent and 
pensionable post.
 (d) The duly filled application forms with preferential 
statement should be sent registered post by indicating 
that ''Recruitment of students for the training of 
professions supplementary to Medicine and Para 
Medical Services 2016'' on the top left hand corner of 
the envelope and below that the applicant's Province 
and district on or before 20.07.2016. the application 
should be sent to director  (administration) 02, 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous 
Medicine, ''Suwasiripaya'', 385, Rev. Baddegama 
Wimalawansa thero Mawatha, colombo 10.
08. applications of the Employees of Government 
Service or Semi Government Services should be sent 
through their relevant head of the department. also,it 
should be noted this is an external recruitment.
09. you will not be informed on receipt of your 
application.
10. the applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected.
11. the applications that are not in accordance with 
the above conditions and not match with the specimen 
application will be rejected without any notice.
12. only a selected group of applicants on the basis of a 
priority as per the Z-score among the applicants,who have 
fulfilled the above qualifications, will be invited for an 
interview, with the representation of the staff officers under 
the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine 
and another Ministry. original of the following particulars 
should be submitted by the applicants at the interview.
 (a) Certificate of  Birth
 (b) the G.c.E.a/L result sheet and the originals in 
which Z-score is shown (Certified copy of this 
should also be sent attaching with the application.)
 (c) Original Certificate of the G.C.E. (O/L) result 
sheet.(Cretified copy of this should also be sent 
attaching with the application)
 (d) National identity card which is issued by 
department for Registration of Persons,valid 
passport or valid driving License.
 (e) Certificate on proving residence issued by the 
Grama Niladari Certificate with the Confirmation 
by the divisional Secretaries for the verification on 
residence as per above 6 (d).
 (f) A formal affidavit signed by justice of the peace 
in order to confirm the unmarried status.(This will 
only be relevant to the applicants of School dental 
therapist training)
13. The Training Procedure :
 (i) Selected applicants among the applicants 
underwent for the interviews will be admitted 
for each training school in order to follow the 
relevant training course.course should be 
followed in the medium mentioned in the table 
in paragraph 01.
 (ii) t rainees who are admitted to the training schools 
will be subject to the exsisting regulations 
enforced in the training schools and to the orders 
implemented time to time by the Ministry of 
Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine.
 (iii) Students who are failed by the relevant 
examinations or those who are with 
unsatisfactory work and conduct or those 
who are unable to adapted with the conditions 
relevant to examinations and leaves relevant 
to the training school, within in the training 
period , may be terminated in any time without 
granting any compensation.

<!-- page 55 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1323
 (iv) according to the appendix (v) of the public 
administraton circular 03/2016 a monthly 
allowance will be paid to the trainees during the 
training period.
 (v) Should be engaged in to an agreement and 
surety bond with the director General of Health 
service as to be agreed to complete the training 
successfully , to be agreed to not left out the 
course, to be agreed to serve  at least 10 years 
period of time in public service or provincial 
public service under the relevant post.if avoid 
the training ,left the training during the training 
period , if action taken to remove / dismiss from 
the training according to the above section iii or 
unable to fulfill the duties under the relevant post 
during a period 10 years with the receipt of the 
appointment he / she should pay the allowance 
granted to him / her during the training, the 
expenses incurred by the government on behalf 
of  him / her and relevant surety as per the surety 
bond to the Ministry of Health ,Nutrition and 
indigenous Medicine. if not actions would be 
taken in accordance with the law under the 
agreement in terms of recovering the such 
amount of credits.
14. Regulations under which employed in service.– 
Government is not bonded to be granted the permanent 
appointments at the end of the training. However, the 
candidates will be considered to be appointed for a post 
in Grade iii  under the relevant post on the basis of the 
conditions in the relevant recruitment procedure and merit 
of the final examination of the training and prefence for 
the list of vacancy which is prepared by giving transfers 
to senior officers to the priority vacancy list based on the 
Vacancies exiting in line ministry and provincial councils.
 if appointment is granted at the end of the training, 
above posts mentioned under code numbers 1- 10 are 
entitled to the salary code Mt -06-2016 and code number 
11 is entitled to Mt -05-2016 and code numbers 12,13 are 
entitled to Mt-04-2016 in terms of public administration 
circular No.03/2016.
  Salary  Salary Scale
  Code
Mt-4-2016 Rs. 31,190-445 x 10-660 x 11-730x10-
750x10 - Rs. 57,700/-
Mt-5-2016 Rs. 31,635- 445x10-660x11-730x10-
750x10= Rs. 58,145/-
Mt-6-2016 Rs. 32,080 - 445x10 - 660 x11-730x10-
750x10 = Rs. 58,590/-
15. applicants should carefully and accurately fill 
the particulars of education and other qualifications in 
the application.If the above certificates are proved to be 
false or incorrect after recruitment to the training or after 
appointment,actions will be taken to refer to the criminal 
investigation department for taking legal actions/ to cancel 
the appointment to dismiss from the training / post, and 
to enter his/ her name in the black list of those who are 
not permitted to be reemployed in the public service after 
taken legal actions against him / her.and ,action will be 
taken to recover the allowance paid to him/her during the 
training period, expenses incurred by the Government, and 
the amount of agreement and surety bond.
16. Selected applicants should submit themselves for a 
medical examination during the first month of the training 
to certify that the applicant is physically and mentally fit 
to follow the course and serve in any part of the island 
and if an applicant is found to be unfit from the medical 
examination he /she will be disqualified for the training.
17.  all persons selected as above will be subject to all laws 
and regulations relevant to the public officers,provisions of 
the Establishment code of democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka, Policies imposed by the Ministry of Health, 
Nutrition and indigenous Medicine,financial Regulations 
and other regulations, rules and orders that may be imposed 
by the Government from time to time.
18. this Ministry is not bound to provide hostel facilities 
in the training schools for the applicants recruited for the 
training. if such facilities provided, rent assessed for a 
housing room,water and electricity bills will be charged.
19. No-entitlement is granted to be involed in trade union 
action or private Service during the training period.if you 
were appointed in the relevant  post after the training no 
entilement is granted to be attended for the private Service 
as well. if such ,an action is detected after appointment, 
legal actions would be taken accordingly. 
20. if any problem arises regarding recruitment to 
the training or any matter covered or is uncovered by 
this Gazette notification,the decision of the Secretary of 
Health,Nutrition and indigenous Medicines's decision will 
be final. In case of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, 
tamil and English text, the text in Sinhala will prevail.
  
     
 
anura Jayawickrama,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Health, Nutrition and
 indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous Medicine,
''Suwasiripaya''
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa thero Mawatha,
colombo 10
05th june, 2016.

<!-- page 56 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1324
annexne 01
 Priority list for name of the training Course mark number 1 to 13 according
 Selection of Courses  to the Preference
01 Medical Laboratory technologist
02 Pharmacist   
03  Physiotherapist
04 occupational therapist
05 Radiographer
06 ophthalmic technologist
07 dental technician
08 School dental therapist
09 Health Entomoloy Officer
10 Prosthetist and orthotists
11 Public Health inspector
12 cardio Grapher
13 Electro Encephalor Graphy Recodist
My preference for each course has been mentioned in the above table.i hereby declare that i have not submitted 
any other preferential declaration except this, i know that  i should be entered in to a training course that would be selected 
by the Ministry of Health and i will not make any objection to it and  i comprehended all the sentences of the Gazette 
notification after reading it.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the applicant.   
 N.i.c No. :––––––––––––.
date :––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Justice of Peace
i do have by certify that the applicant Mr/Mrs/Miss ------- who submit this preference declaration is known to me  
well and that he /she placed his/her signature i'm my presence.
 –––––––––––––––,   
 Signature of the justice of Peace.
 Official Frank of the Justice of Peace.
date :–––––––––––.
full Name of the justice of Peace :–––––––––––.
address :–––––––––––.
SPEciMEN aPPLicatioN foRM 
recruitment of students for the training of Professions suPPlementary to medicine and Para medical service - 2016
read ProPerly before comPlete the aPPlication
* code No. of for the applying course/courses (as in the Gazette)
01.  (a) Name with initials :––––––––––––.
   (in English Block capitals)  Ex. : a. B. c. SiLVa
  (b) Name in full (in English Block letters) :––––––––––––.
  (c) Name in full (Sinhala/tamil) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 57 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1325
02. National identity card No. :––––––––––––.  (a copy should be attached)
03. Postal address : Sinhala/tamil English
    ......................................... .........................................
    ......................................... .........................................
    ......................................... .........................................
    ......................................... .........................................
04. (a) Permanent address :  Sinhala/tamil English
    ......................................... .........................................
    ......................................... .........................................
    ......................................... .........................................
 (b) telephone No. : Mobile :––––––––––––.  Permanent :––––––––––––.
 (c) Resided district : Sinhala/t amil :––––––––––––. English :––––––––––––.
 (d) are you resident in this district : yes/No. :––––––––––––.
 (e) if "y es" how long :––––––––––––.
05. date of Birth : date :––––––––––––,   Month :––––––––––––,  year :––––––––––––.
 age as to 20.07.2016 : days :––––––––––––,   Months :––––––––––––,  years :––––––––––––.
06. Height : feets :––––––––––––,  inches :––––––––––––.
07. Sex : Male  female  (Put a P in the relevant box)
08. Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka :     y es    No        (Put a P in the relevant box)
09. civil Status :  Married  Single
10. Education Qualification : 
  (a) G. C. E. Advanced Level Examination (attach a certificated copy of the A/L result sheet with Z-score mark) :
   district in which year have faced the exam :––––––––––––.
   y ear :––––––––––––. index No. :––––––––––––.
   Z-score :––––––––––––.
  # Subject Result
  1
  2
  3
  4
  (b) G. c. E. ordinary Level Examination :
    First attempt  Second attempts
  # Subject Year  Year
    Index No.  Index No. 
     Result  Result
  1 Sinhala/tamil Language
  2 Mathematics
  3 Science
  4 English 
  5 
  6
  7
  8
  9
  10
  11
  12
* Please mention all the subjects you have faced in G. c. E. (o/L)

<!-- page 58 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2016'06'24
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.06.2016
1326
11. Have you ever been convicted by a court : y es  No      (Put a ‘P’  in the relevant box)
 if it is yes describe  :––––––––––––.
12. Certificate of Applicant : 
 (a) I hereby confirm that the particulars of the applications was filled in accordance with the provisions of the 
Gazette notification after reading it properly and I am not participating to any other full time course and the 
particulars of these application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
 (b) i am aware that i am liable for disqualify as a trainee or termination of my service (even if i have been appointed 
at any time) if the particulars furnished are found to be in correct or false. 
Affix the receipt obtained by paying to the credit of the Account of 
"director General of Health Services collection of Exam fees" No. 7041318 of the 
Bank of ceylon, thaprobane Branch.
  –––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attesting. 
date :––––––––––––.
13. attestation of the Signature (applicant) : 
i hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................... is known to me well personally and that he/she placed 
his/her signature my presence. 
  ––––––––––––––––––––,
  Sign of the officer Attesting. 
date :––––––––––––.
full name of the person attesting :––––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––––.
address :––––––––––––.
06–749
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.