

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.01.2020
1A
wxl 2159$64 - 2020 ckjdß ui 25 jeks fikiqrdod - 2020'01'25
No. 2159/64 - SATURDAY ,  JANUARY  25,  2020
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A-  G  31846— 392  (01/2020)
BY  HIS  EXCELLENCY  GOTABAYA  RAJAPAKSA
 PRESIDENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
PRESIDENTIAL  DIRECTIVE
ESTABLISHMENT of a Task Force for Poverty eradication and Livelihood Development in terms of the powers vested in
His Excellency the President by Article 33 of the Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
To:
1. S.B. Divarathne Esquire
Retired Deputy Secretary to the Treasury
2. V . Sivagnanasothy Esquire
Retired Secretary to Ministry
3. Prof. H.M.W. Ariyarathna Herath Esquire
Senior Lecturer, University of Peradeniya
 Seal GOTABAY A  R AJAPAKSA.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.01.2020
2A
4. Prof. Shirantha Heenkenda Esquire
University of Kelaniya
5. Dr. S.S. Sivakumar Esquire
Senior Lecturer, University of Jaffna
6. Nimal  Abeysiri Esquire
Retired District Secretary
7. Dr. Anuruddha Padeniya Esquire
Consultant
8. Dr. (Ms.) Sanjeewani Hapugoda
Consultant
9. Sumedha Perera Esquire
Retired Major General
10. Ms. Gayathri Gunaruwan
The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
11. Sanjeewa Gunawardana Esquire
Executive Officer, M/s. E.W. Creasy and Company
12. Samantha Kumarasinghe Esquire
Owner, M/s. Nature’s Secrets
Greetings !
Whereas the frustrations experienced by the rural people, plantation community and low income earning urban
people at their role not being properly evaluated in terms of their skills, exceptional abilities and potentials as well as the ir
weaknesses and challenges in a context where during the past period, the local economic strengths had not been subject to
due appraisal within the international context, has received the priority attention of the incumbent Government,
And whereas the difficulties, problems and setbacks of the rural low income earning communities are faced with
have been more accurately identified based on their own observations through the "Dialogue with the village" and "Vistas
of prosperity and splendour",
And whereas the overall  economic goals to be  achieved by Sri Lanka in the future  and development objectives
recognized by the  United Nation as well as trends  forwards increasing poverty and gap between haves and have-nots  in the
context of the World Economic trends have been  clearly  identified by the incumbent Government,
And whereas the poverty has been a major drawback in achieving the said development goals for a secure and
prosperous nation and that the need has also arisen for strategies to be adopted for empowerment of rural community based
on a people-centric economy,
And whereas clear out integrated programmes to be implemented for building the country within the framework of
vision under the theme: "A secure country, A land of prosperity, A productive citizen" and "A happy family" has been
presented in the policy statement: "Vistas of prosperity and splendour",
And whereas the programme for expanding educational facilities and  improving skills and potentials of students as
well as health, quality food consumption of the people and environmental conservation have been prioritized,
And whereas it is imperative that  an novel  approach  is established by expanding the access for finance through
Banking and Financial Institutions as is deemed  appropriate  for the rural, plantation and  low-income earning people to be
directly linked  to the process of   economic empowerment locally as  entrepreneurs  by reviving  the small and medium scale
enterprises through the established Government  machinery as Central Government Ministries, District Secretariats and
Divisional Secretariats,
Now, therefore, I, Gotabaya Rajapaksa, President of the Democratic  Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka reposing great
trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity  do by these presents  appoint you the said,

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.01.2020
3A
1. S.B. Divarathne Esquire
Retired Deputy Secretary to the Treasury
2. V . Sivagnanasothy Esquire
Retired Secretary to Ministry
3. Prof. H.M.W. Ariyarathna Herath Esquire
Senior Lecturer, University of Peradeniya
4. Prof. Shirantha Heenkenda Esquire
University of Kelaniya
5. Dr. S.S. Sivakumar Esquire
Senior Lecturer, University of Jaffna
6. Nimal  Abeysiri Esquire
Retired District Secretary
7. Dr. Anuruddha Padeniya Esquire
Consultant
8. Dr. (Ms.) Sanjeewani Hapugoda
Consultant
9. Sumedha Perera Esquire
Retired Major General
10. Ms. Gayathri Gunaruwan
The Ceylon Chamber of Commerce
11. Sanjeewa Gunawardana Esquire
Executive Officer, M/s. E.W. Creasy and Company
12. Samantha Kumarasinghe Esquire
Owner, M/s. Nature’s Secrets
as members of the Task Force to be established for poverty eradication and livelihood development and appoint you
as my Commissioners to the accomplishment of the  under-mentioned  tasks -
(a) Implementation of programmes for supply of essential food items in order to ensure the food security of Samurdhi
beneficiaries,
(b) Co-ordination Lanka Sathosa, CWE, Cooperative system and Mark-Fed in expanding the Network for the supply
of foods and other essential items,
(c) Incentivizing and mobilizing local suppliers in supplying foods and other commodities at concessionary prices
through the above retail Network,
(d) Establishing a network of authorized dealers at grass root level in order to expand the supply network through
Lanka Sathosa, Coop-Fed and Mark-Fed and give priority for women’s entrepreneurship in the expansion of the
said authorized dealers' network,
(e) Co-ordinating with the multi-purpose Task Force to ensure the availability of sustainable livelihood programmes
for the 100,000 needy families identified in respect of the 100,000 employment programme,
(f) Co-ordinating with the Ministry of Highways, Provincial Councils and Pradeshiya Sabhas the 100,000 K.M rural
road development programme for the provision of a good quality road system for the people mostly resident in
rural, estate and semi-urban areas,
(g) Co-ordinating with the Ministry of Urban Development, Water Supply and Housing facilities and the Water
Supply and Drainage Board to ensure the provision of 150,000 water supplies in order to satisfactorily to meet the
requirements of people resident in rural state and semi-urban areas,
(h) Co-ordinating with the Ministry of Finance, Economy and Policy Development, Regional Development Bank,
Samurdhi Bank, Cooperative Banks, Housing Development and Finance Corporation and Micro - Finance
Institutions  in providing financial facilities  for the  needy  and low income  earning  communities prioritizing  small
scale  business development, self employment, cottage industries development  initiatives and  facilitating
provision of  financial facilities  for the low income recipients,

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'25
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 25.01.2020
4A
(i) Coordinating with the Ministry of Lands, Lands Commissioner's Department and  "Bim Saviya"  Programme  in
providing long-term permit on  30 year lease basis for agricultural and business development, to those identified
from among the  poor and under low income  earning people,
(j) Coordinating with Local Government Institutions, District Secretariats, Divisional Secretariats and other
Government Institutions to ensure said communities have been provided with facilities for the delivery of
services at  grass-root level,
(k) Coordinating with the Department of  Wildlife and Divisional Secretariats in providing protection for the
villages and cultivated lands from wild elephants,
(l) Initiating necessary measures for the CSR programme launched by the private sector   to be linked as far as
possible to the national programme for the eradication of poverty,
(m) Coordinating with the relevant institution in mobilizing funding provided by various international bank and
Funds in making this programme a success.
AND I, appoint S.B. Divarathne Esquire as  the Chairman of the Task Force and    I do hereby authorize the Task
Force for Poverty Eradication and Livelihood  Development to issue instructions  to make inquiries and investigate such
matters as may be necessary in relation to the accomplishment  of the Task  hereby entrusted;
AND I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom  the Task Force Poverty
eradication and Livelihood  Development  may issue instructions or apply for assistance  for information, to  comply with
such instructions, render all such assistance and  furnish all such  information  as may properly be  complied  with, rendered
and furnished, in that behalf.
AND, I do hereby require and direct the said Task Force to report to me  all instances where  any   Government
employee or  an  officer  in any Ministry, Government Department, State Corporation  or any such Institution  who delay
the performance of  duties and fulfillment of responsibilities  or fail to  perform such duties and responsibilities  to be
entrusted  by the said Task Force.
I do hereby direct the said Task Force to accomplish its mandate within One Year and report to me.
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on this 24th day of January
Two thousand and Twenty.
By order of His Excellency,
P. B. J
AYASUNDERA,
Secretary to the President.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.