

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2429$32 - 2025 ud¾;= ui 27 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025.03.27
No. 2429/32  -  THURSDAY,   MARCH   27 ,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - PG 7068 - 504 (03/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. D. B. 3/2019
ThE ANTI-DumPING  AND COuNTER vAILING  DuTIES  ACT, No. 2 Of 2018
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Trade, Commerce, Food Security and Cooperative Development under section 84 
read with sections 64, 65, 66, 69, and 70 of Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties Act, No. 2 of 2018.
 Wasantha Samarasinghe,
 Minister of Trade, Commerce, Food Security 
 and Cooperative Development.
Colombo,  
27th March, 2025.
Regulations
 1.  These regulations may be cited as the Application for Initiating an Investigation on Imposition of Anti-Dumping and 
Countervailing Duty Regulations of 2025.
PART I
Anti-Dumping Duty Investigation
 2.  A written application for initiating an investigation on imposition of anti-dumping duty (hereinafter referred to as the 
“application”) shall be made to the Director-General of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Director- General’), 
by or on behalf of a Sri Lankan industry along with the information reasonably available to the applicant. 

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
2A
 3.  The Director- General shall initiate an investigation to determine the existence, degree and effect of any alleged dumping 
upon receipt of an application made under regulation 2, having being satisfied that there is sufficient evidence to justify 
the initiation of an investigation. The Director-General may where necessary, require further information from the 
applicant.
 4. An application shall not be taken on record, until it is fully documented and all required information are furnished by 
the applicant. The applicant may contact the relevant case officer of the Department of Commerce for assistance in 
filling the application, if necessary. 
 5.  (1) An application for the investigation on imposition of anti-dumping duty shall be prepared containing information 
as specified in the Schedule 1 hereto and shall specially include, inter alia, the following: -
               (a) information on the imported product;
 (b) information of the domestic industry and the domestic market;
 (c) evidence of dumping;
 (d) evidence of injury; and 
 (e) evidence of causal link.
 (2)  The application shall be prepared in accordance with the format set out in Schedule I. Any other information relevant 
to the investigation which is not included in Schedule I may be furnished, if necessary.
 (3)  The declaration, authorization letter, drafting of non-confidential response, and cost and price buildup shall be as set 
out in Annexure I, II, III and IV to the Schedule I and the declaration shall be signed by the higher management of the 
company such as Managing Director, Chief Executive Officer or any other officer authorized by the management of 
the company. 
 6.  The information as referred to in regulation 5, shall be provided with respect of a period of twelve months or more. 
This time period shall be most recent and correspond to the accounting year of the domestic industry. All information, 
unless otherwise specified, shall relate to this period. 
 7.  The Director-General may require any additional or supplementary information at any time before or after initiation 
of investigation. 
PART II
Countervailing Duty Investigation
 8. (1) A countervailing duty investigation against any subsidised export – 
                          (a)  shall be separate from an anti-dumping investigation; and 
                          (b)  may be done concurrently.
 (2)  A countervailing action may be taken, in respect of a subsidy as defined in section 85 of the Act, read with section 
67 of the Act, in respect of the prohibited subsidies and actionable subsidies as defined by the Act.  
 (3)  Subsidies that fall within the ambit of the Third Schedule of the Act, such as those providing assistance for research 
activity, development of disadvantaged regions and assistance offsetting costs imposed by environmental regulations 
shall be excluded from any countervailing action, provided such subsidies meet the criteria and to the extent set 
out in the Third Schedule of the Act. 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
3A
 9.  A Countervailing duty investigation shall be conducted in terms of sections 69 to 76 of the Act. The provisions of 
regulations 2 to 7 (inclusive of both) of these regulations shall mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to a countervailing 
investigation. 
 10. (1) An application for an investigation of countervailing duty shall be prepared as specified in the Schedule II. The 
purpose of this application shall be to help the industry in Sri Lanka bring together in a concise and logical form 
the information needed by the Director- General to decide whether or not to initiate a formal investigation. This 
application may also serve as a basis for further investigation. 
  (2)  A declaration, authorization letter, certification, drafting of non-confidential response, and cost and price buildup shall 
be as set out in Annexure I, II, III, IV and V to the Schedule II. 
 
 11.  The Director- General may proceed with an investigation, if it has prima facie  proof of subsidised imports, material 
injury and of a causal link between the subsidised imports and the material injury.
 12.  Any information which is provided on a confidential basis by parties to an investigation shall, upon good cause being 
shown, be treated as confidential by the Director- General.
 13.  The access to confidential information shall be restricted to the officers in charge of the investigation, the Director- General 
and the Inter-Ministerial Committee established under the section 82 of the Act. The Director- General shall ensure that 
only authorized personnel can have access to all documentation submitted in confidence:
                       Provided however, all interested parties to a countervailing investigation shall be given reasonable opportunity to 
have access to all non-confidential information relevant to the presentation of their case after initiation of an investigation. 
 14.   A confidential version of the application shall be required to submit until such time as the Director- General has informed 
that the application is regarded as properly documented. Prior to the initiation of an investigation, the applicant may be 
required to submit a non-confidential version thereof. In this regard, parties requesting that information be treated as 
confidential shall -
 (a)  clearly identify the information for which confidential treatment is requested;
   (b)  provide justification for the request for confidential treatment in each instance; 
 (c)  provide a non-confidential version or non-confidential summary of the information for which confidential treatment 
is requested, or if it is claimed that the information is not susceptible to such a summary, a statement of the reasons 
why such a summary is not possible. 
        
 15.   A non-confidential version shall reproduce the original, but have information considered to be confidential either omitted 
or summarised. Non-confidential version shall contain sufficient details to allow other interested parties a reasonable 
understanding of the information submitted in confidence. A non-confidential summary of the confidential information 
may be prepared on the guidelines provided by Annexure IV to these regulations.
 16.  For the purpose of this Part-
  “Act” means the Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties Act, No. 2 of 2018; and
        
  “subsidy” shall have the same meaning assigned to such expression in the Act. 

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
4A
Schedule 1
                                                                                                                                                         
[regulation 5(1)]
 SECTION – A - GENERAL INfORmATION 
Information of the applicant 
A1 Identify your company
 
 Name:  
 Address: 
 Telephone No: 
 Fax No:
 Webpage:
 E-mail Address: 
A2 Identify the authorized contact person(s) of your company for this investigation
 Name:
 Designation:
 Address:
 Telephone No: 
 Fax No: 
 E-mail address:
 Note:  This person shall be able to speak English.
A3 Legal Representative
If the company has appointed a legal representative to assist the company in this proceeding, please provide the 
following details:
  Name:
  Address:
  Telephone No: 
  Fax No: 
  E-mail address:
Please submit an authorization for the legal representative to act on behalf of the company in the format as 
set out in Annexure II (formA3) of Schedule 1.
A4 Corporate Information
 A4.1 Indicate the legal form of your company (public company, private company, fully owned subsidiary, joint venture, 
etc.)
 
 A4.2  Provide a complete listing of all shareholders that hold more than 1% of the shares in your company in the following 
format:
Name Type of share Number of shares Percentage sharehold-
ing
Percentage voting 
rights
1.
2.
3.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
5A
 A4.3 Please indicate address(es) of all your offices involved in the administration, sales and production of the product 
under investigation.
  Office:
  Address:
 A4.4 Supply a detailed diagram outlining the overall internal hierarchical and organizational structure of your company. 
Attach as Annexure A4.4. 
 A4.5 Please provide your company’s worldwide corporate structure and affiliations, including parent companies, subsidiaries 
or other related companies. Attach as Anexure A4.5. 
 A4.6 Describe the nature of your relationship with the company(s) referred to in A4.5. State whether you share any board 
members or senior executives with any of those entities. If so identify the persons and nature of their affiliations.
 A4.7 Specify in detail any financial or contractual links and joint ventures with any other company concerning production, 
sales, licensing, technical and patent agreements for the product under investigation.
A description of the volume and value of the domestic like product produced by the applicant
A5 Range of products
 A5.1 List all the products produced and/or sold by your company in Sri Lanka, i.e. not only the product that forms the 
subject of this application. Please include a brochure of all your products.
A6 Accounting principles and cost accounting system
 A6.1 Indicate your financial year.
 A6.2 Describe the accounting principles and practices used by your company. Also provide a description of the cost 
accounting system used by your company.
  Explain the details or differences, if any, between your company’s normal cost accounting system and the cost 
accounting system used to record the production costs of the products concerned and to complete the reply to this 
questionnaire.
 A6.3 Indicate whether any extraordinary or non-recurring expenses or income are affecting the production and sales of 
the like product in the reported data. Provide details of the amounts concerned.
 A6.4 Attach copies of your audited financial statements for the last three years as Annexure A6.3. If the financial statements 
for the last financial year have not been audited yet, please include your unaudited statements.
 A6.5 Attach copies of your monthly internal or management accounts for the full period of investigation as Annexure 
A6.5.
SECTION –B- PRODuCT
Imported Product Information:
Complete description of the allegedly dumped product, including the characteristics and uses of the product and its 
harmonised commodity description and coding system classification.
 B1.1 Provide a complete description of the alleged dumped products. Specifically provide details on the following:

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
6A
(a) Product name;
(b) Physical appearance;
(c) Technical characteristics;
(d) Raw materials;
(e) Production process;
(f) End-use;
(g) Tariff classification;
(h) Applicable technical specifications or standards (national or international);
(i) Any other information used to distinguish the product from similar products.
Attach a copy of the tariff description from the Sri Lanka Tariff Code Book as Annexure B1.1(a).
If available, attach copies of brochures or photographs showing the imported product as Annexure B1.1(b).
 B1.2 Indicate the countries of export of the alleged dumped product.
B2 Sri Lanka Like Product Information:
 B2.1 Provide a complete description of your product. Specifically provide details on the following:
(a) Product name;
(b) Physical appearance;
(c) Technical characteristics;
(d) Raw materials;
(e) Production process;
(f) End-use;
(g) Tariff classification;
(h) Applicable technical specifications or standards (national or international);
(i) Any other information used to distinguish the product from similar products.
Attach copies of brochures/photos showing your product as Annexure B2.1.
 B2.2  Describe the manufacturing process for the like product. Flow charts explaining the manufacturing process, including 
a step-by-step explanation of the production process starting from the first input of primary material and ending with 
the packaging of the like product may be used in this respect.
 B2.3 Describe in detail your company’s product coding system. Provide a key to your production and sales codes, including 
all prefixes, suffixes, or other notations, which identify special specifications.
 Note: this coding will assist the Director- General in obtaining relevant product-specific information from exporters 
and importers, although the Director-General may decide to adjust the coding system used.
 B2.4 Specifically provide details on differences between the imported product and the Sri Lanka like product.
 B2.5 Indicate how these differences affect substitutability, consumer preference and prices.
B3 foreign Like Product Information:
 B3.1 Provide a complete description of the like product sold on the domestic market of each of the exporting countries. 
Specifically provide details on differences between the imported and the foreign like product, i.e. the product sold 
on the domestic market of the exporter.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
7A
 B3.2 Indicate how these differences affect substitutability, consumer preference and prices.
 B3.3 If available, attach copies of brochures showing the product sold in the exporting countries as Annexure B3.3.
SECTION -C- INTERESTED PARTIES
The identity of the Sri Lankan industry 
Note : Identification of the interested parties is essential for initiating an investigation 
C1 Domestic industry:
 C1.1 Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, contact person, email) of all known domestic 
(Sri Lanka) producers of the like product.
 C1.2  Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number) of all known chambers and trade associations 
for the like product in Sri Lanka.
 C1.3  Does any of the domestic producers import the alleged dumped product (that is, from a country under investigation)? 
If yes, to the extent possible, please provide details of the volume and value of all such imports during the last three 
years and the year to date.
 C1.4 Does any of the domestic producers import the like product from any third country? If yes, please provide details 
of the volume and value of all such imports during the last three years and the year to date.
 C1.5 Are any of the domestic producers related to the exporters or importers of the alleged dumped product? If yes, state 
the nature of such relationship.
 C1.6 State the volume of Sri Lanka production with a separate breakdown of that of the applicant and of other Sri Lanka 
producers not party to this complaint. The application shall be supported by at least 25% of the domestic industry 
by production volume, with more producers by production volume supporting the application than those opposing 
it. Please provide the data in the following format, by indicating the party’s volume of production in the relevant 
column:
Table C1.6.1
Support application Neutral Oppose application
Applicant
Other producer 1*
Other producer 2*
Total
 
Note: Insert as many rows as required.
Attach letters of support from other producers as Annexure C-1.6.1.
* - indicate name of producer
C2 Other interested parties
 C2.1 Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, email, website) of all known exporters and 
foreign manufacturers of the alleged dumped product (in the countries under investigation). 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
8A
 C2.2 Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, email) of all known Sri Lankan importers 
of the alleged dumped product.
 C2.3 Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, email) of all known domestic (Sri Lanka) 
users of the alleged dumped product if it is a product that is used in downstream manufacturing.
SECTION – D- DumPING
D1 Export Price:
Provide the export price of the alleged dumped product sold to an importer in Sri Lanka. Ideally this price shall be at 
the ex-factory level of the exporter and shall reflect a price within the 12 (and preferably 6) months preceding the submission 
of the application. However, for the purposes of the application the export price may be based on various options, including 
the following:
 (a) an actual export invoice to Sri Lanka; 
 (b) an export quotation for export of the alleged dumped product to Sri Lanka, including an export price list (which 
can include a price indicated on internet);
 (c) the price at which the product is bought or sold by the importer, less all costs, charges, expenses, duties and taxes 
to arrive at the ex-factory price; or
 (d) the export price as contained in the import statistics provided by Customs.
Note: You have to respond to either question D1.1 or D1.2, not both.
 D1.1  Export price obtained
(a) Indicate the export price you have obtained. Indicate the level of trade (ex-factory, FOB, C&F, CIF, etc.) at 
which the price was obtained.
(b) Provide proof of the price you obtained, e.g. a copy of the invoice, quotation or the Customs statistics. Attach 
this as Annexure D1.1(b).
(c) Indicate the adjustments that need to be made to obtain the ex-factory export price.
(d) Submit evidence to substantiate the adjustments made. Attach this as Annexure D1.1(d).
Note: If there are several different products, types or models, calculate export prices for a representative sample of models, types, 
grades, etc,  provide the basis for your selection of the models, e.g. highest selling models sold by the Sri Lanka industry, etc.
 D1.2  Import price obtained 
  In the event the applicant is unable to obtain an export price under D1.1, or where the export price is unreliable on 
the basis that such sales are made to a related party in Sri Lanka, the ex-factory price may be constructed on the 
basis of the price at which the alleged dumped product is sold to the first independent buyer. If this alternative is 
used, supply the following information:
 (a) Indicate the import price you have obtained. Indicate the level of trade (distributor, wholesaler, retailer or 
end-user) at which the price was obtained.
 (b) Provide proof of the price you obtained, i.e. a copy of the invoice. Attach this as Annexure D1.2(b).
 (c) Indicate the adjustments that need to be made to obtain the ex-factory export price. This would include all 
costs between the selling price to the independent buyer and the exporter’s ex-works export price.
 (d) Submit evidence to substantiate the adjustments made. Attach this as Annexure D1.2(d).

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
9A
 D2 Normal value:
The applicant shall indicate the normal value for the alleged dumped product.
For initiation purposes the normal value may be based on three possible methodologies. The first is to obtain a selling price 
on the domestic market of the exporter. You may only resort to either of the other methodologies if you cannot obtain a 
selling price on the domestic market of the exporter and you shall indicate the steps you took to obtain a domestic price in 
the exporting country. In such instances you may determine the normal value with reference to the export price of the like 
product from the exporting country to an appropriate third country or you may construct the normal value in the exporting 
country. The normal value shall reflect a price within the 12 (and preferably 6) months preceding the submission of the 
application. Where the product is a commodity product, such as poultry, you will need to submit prices from a number of 
different months. Where the exporting country is geographically large, for consumer commodity products you shall also try 
to submit prices obtained in different cities.
Note: If there are several different products, types or models, calculate export prices for a representative sample of models, types, 
grades, etc.provide the basis for your selection of the models, e.g. highest selling models sold by the Sri Lanka industry, etc.
 D2.1  Domestic selling price obtained 
D2.1.1 (a) Furnish the price charged on the exporter’s domestic market.  Ideally this shall be the net ex-factory selling 
price exclusive of all internal taxes. If this is not available submit the price available to you (e.g. a retail 
invoice, a retail advertisement, price list, international publication, import statistics into that country, etc.) 
on which the allegation of dumping is based. Attach proof of the normal value as Annexure D2.1.1.
(b) Indicate the adjustments that need to be made to recalculate this price to an ex-works level and supply 
substantiating documentation in this regard.
 D2.2  Alternative methodology to determine normal value 
 D2.2.1 In cases where you cannot determine the normal value on the basis of the domestic selling price in the exporting 
country, provide the following information:
 (a) Indicate your attempts to obtain a domestic selling price in the exporting country;
 (b) Where there are no sales on the exporter’s domestic market in the ordinary course of trade give the reason 
why you believe that there are no such sales of the like product in the exporter’s domestic market.
Note that sales may be regarded as not in the ordinary course of trade if they are made at a loss or if sales take place to related 
parties.
 D2.2.2 In cases where you cannot determine the normal value on the basis of domestic selling prices in the exporting 
country, provide information on one of the following options as the basis for normal value –
 (a) the price charged by the supplier concerned for exports to a third country market (this may include proof of the 
import price into another country from the exporting country) and attach proof as Annexure D2.2.2(a); or
 (b) the constructed normal value of the like product, exported to Sri Lanka based on production costs in the country 
of origin, as far as possible in the format and detail as set out in Annexure IV (Form D2.2.2(b)) of Schedule 
1. The information shall at a minimum indicate raw material costs, labour, energy costs, depreciation, other 
manufacturing overheads, selling, general and administrative expenses and a reasonable profit margin. Each of 
these cost elements shall be substantiated with documentary evidence.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
10A
D3 fair comparison:
A fair comparison shall be made between the export price and the normal value. To facilitate this comparison, any adjustments 
shall be indicated to either the export price or the normal value that affected prices at the time of sale. Please indicate the 
following:
 D3.1  Adjustments to the export price 
Indicate –
 (a) payment terms and the applicable interest rate;
 (b) movement expenses (domestic transport; harbour, lading and clearance costs; freight and insurance) included 
in the price of the alleged dumped product;
 (c) any other adjustments to the price of the alleged dumped product. 
Submit evidence substantiating the adjustments you have made. This could include proof of the interest rate, a 
quotation for movement expenses for the product in the exporting country, etc. Attach the documentary evidence as Annexure 
D3.1.
 D3.2 Adjustments to the normal value 
Indicate –
 (a) payment terms and the applicable interest rate;
 (b) movement expenses (domestic transport and insurance) included in the price of the like product sold on the 
exporter’s domestic market;
 (c) rebates, discounts and commission paid in respect of the like product sold on the exporter’s domestic market;
 (d) adjustments for technical differences between the product sold on the domestic market and the product exported 
to Sri Lanka;
 (e) any other adjustments to the price of the like product sold on the exporter’s domestic market.
Submit evidence substantiating the adjustments you have made. This could include proof of the interest rate, a quotation 
for movement expenses for the product in the exporting country, etc. Attach the documentary evidence as Annexure D3.2.
D4 margin of Dumping:
Indicate the margin of dumping, expressed as a percentage of the CIF price, of the alleged dumped product. Provide the 
following information (separately for each product group or model):
Price/unit
A. Normal value ex-works
B. Ex-works export price
C. Margin of dumping per unit (A-B)
D. CIF export price
E. Margin of dumping percentage (C/D)
Note that no investigation can be initiated if the margin of dumping is less than 2%.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
11A
SECTION E – INJuRY
E1 Import statistics:
 E1.1  Provide the import statistics for the alleged dumped product in the following format (insert the names of the exporting 
countries as required):
Table E1.1: Import volumes (indicate unit of measurement – kg/units/litres)
Volume 201x 201x 201x 201x
Country 1
Country 2
Sub-total
Other imports
Total imports
Identify each country alleged to be dumping the product on the Sri Lanka market (insert additional rows in the Tables as 
required). 
If imports take place under different tariff subheadings, the tables in E1.1, E1.2 and E1.3 shall be completed separately for 
each tariff subheading, as well as for all products combined.
Provide information for the last three full years and the current year to date (as recent as information is available from 
Customs) and indicate in the headings to which years the information relates to. Clearly indicate whether the information 
relates to calendar or financial years. This relates to all three tables (E1.1, E1.2 and E1.3)
Table E1.2: Import values
Value 201x 201x 201x 201x
Country 1
Country 2
Sub-total
Other imports
Total imports
Table E1.3: Import prices
Unit price 201x 201x 201x 201x
Country 1
Country 2
Sub-total
Other imports
Total imports

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
12A
E2 material injury :
E2.1 Please supply the following information of injury from your financial statements. 
Note Description 201x 201x 201x 201x
1 Units sold (Sri Lanka)     
2 Turnover (Sri Lanka)     
3 Average Sri Lanka selling price     
4 Gross profit on Sri Lanka sales     
5 Net profit on Sri Lanka sales     
6 Actual (total) production     
7 Actual production for Sri Lanka     
8 Capacity utilization %     
9 Total production workers     
10 SGA staff     
11 Total staff     
12 Production staff wages
13 Total salaries and wages
14 Number of shifts worked (per year)     
15 Units produced per worker     
16 Incoming cash flow
17 Outgoing cash flow
18 Net cash flow
19 Net assets
20 Return on net assets
21 Inventories (units)     
22 Inventories (value)     
In completing this table, please refer to the following explanatory notes. Where necessary, indicate this separately for 
each product group/model as well as the total.
Note Description Note Description
1 Indicate the volume of sales of the like product in Sri 
Lanka. Also indicate the unit of measurement (units, kg, 
etc.).
 
12 Indicate total wages paid to production workers
2 Indicate the value of turnover of the like product at  
ex-factory (undelivered) level
13 Indicate total wages paid to all employees, 
including the sales and marketing team
3 Divide the total value of sales by the total volume of sales 14 State the actual number of shifts worked on the 
production of the like product for the full year 
(count every shift individually)
4 State the total gross profit (GP) on Sri Lanka sales of the 
like product. GP relates to the difference between the 
turnover indicated under note 2 and the total production 
cost, inclusive of raw material, labour, factory overheads, 
depreciation, etc., but excluding any SGA costs.
15 Divide the total production units by the number 
of production workers

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
13A
Note Description Note Description
5 State the total net profit on Sri Lanka sales of the like 
product. Net profit relates to the difference between 
the turnover indicated under note 2 and TOTAL costs, 
including selling, general and administrative (SGA) 
expenses
16 State the outgoing cash flow for the product only. 
If this is not possible, provide it for the narrowest 
group of products for which it is available
6 Indicate the actual total volume produced of the like 
product during the period indicated (regardless of 
destination)
17 State the incoming cash flow for the product 
only. If this is not possible, provide it for the 
narrowest group of products for which it is 
available
7 Indicate that part of the production volume of the like 
product that was destined for sales in Sri Lanka, thus 
excluding production for the export market
18 State the net cash flow for the product only. If 
this is not possible, provide it for the narrowest 
group of products for which it is available
8 Express your actual total production as a percentage of 
your actual capacity
19 Indicate the value of your net assets (i.e. after 
depreciation and amortization) invested in the 
like product. If not possible, indicate the total net 
assets for the company, but add a qualifying note
9 Indicate the number of production workers dedicated to 
production of the like product only. If this is not possible, 
provide it for the narrowest group of products for which 
it is available
20 Divide your profit for the like product (note 5) 
by the net assets (note 19)
10 Indicate the number of SGA staff, including management 
dedicated to sales of the like product.
1
Please indicate your inventory volumes for the 
like product 
11 Add the total number of production and SGA staff Please indicate your inventory values for the 
like product 
E3: Threat of injury:
Note: It is not necessary to complete this section if you can prove material injury under question E2. 
If an application only be based on a threat of material injury, you still have to complete the information in question E2, but 
you need to add two columns for the current year and the next year, providing substantiated estimates for all injury factors, 
in addition to the information requested in this section.
E3.1 Give details on the freely disposable capacity or imminent substantial increase in capacity of the exporter.
E3.2 Substantiate any significant increase of allegedly dumped imports into Sri Lanka indicating the likelihood of substantially 
further increased importation.
E3.3 State whether the products concerned enter the country at prices that will have a significant depressing or suppressing 
effect on the Sri Lankan like product prices and are likely to increase demand for further imports. Substantiate your 
reply. (A depressing effect means the actual lowering of existing prices and a suppressing effect means the prevention 
of price increases that would have normally been affected.)
1 If this cannot be separately indicated, please indicate the number of workers for the narrowest group of products or for the 
company in totoal, but add a qualifying note to this effect.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
14A
 E3.4 Indicate the exporters' in inventories of the Product being investigated.
E3.5  Indicate the state of the economy of the country of origin/export and its influence on the operations of the manufacturers/
exporters.
E3.6 Give any other information relevant to your allegation that the infliction of material injury is imminent.
SECTION f– CAuSuALITY 
Causality:
The applicant, in addition to providing the data establishing dumping and material in injury on a prima facie basis, shall 
demonstrate that there is a causal link between the dumping and the material injury. This does not mean that the dumped 
imports shall be the only reason for any injury suffered. Causality is usually shown by the coincidence in time of the increasing 
dumped imports with the deterioration of the situation of the industry as shown by the development of the injury factors 
outlined above.
f1 Link between dumping and injury
Submit your reasons for alleging that the alleged dumped imports are the cause of your material injury. Refer to matters such 
as the increase in imports of the investigation period compared to decreases in your sales volumes; price undercutting during 
the investigation period;and other factors that can directly link injury to the alleged dumping. Note that attention shall not 
only be given to the end-point analysis ( i.e. the figures in the first and last years), but also to intervening trends.
f2 Other factors causing injury
Indicate any other factors that contributed to the injury experienced by the domestic industry. This may include natural 
disasters, strikes, changes in consumer demand, technological advances, contraction of the market or decreased exports.
 ANNEXURE I  
             
DECLARATION
Having made the enquiry, I hereby certify that the information contained in this submission is true, complete and correct 
to the best of my knowledge and belief, on the basis of records available and generally maintained by the company, and no 
material has been concealed or misrepresented.
Date                                                                       
 (Signature)
(Name/Designation)
Notes: (1) This page shall be completed and appended at the beginning of your submission.
(2)  The Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Chief Finance Officer, a Director, Partner or the proprietor 
of the firm filing response to this questionnaire shall sign the declaration – it may not be signed by the 
consultant.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
15A
ANNEXURE II
                       
FORM A3
AuThORISATION LETTER
We hereby appoint the following person/firm in Sri Lanka to represent us in the anti-dumping investigation being conducted 
by the Director- General. This representation will remain in effect until revoked in writing.
(Name, address, telephone, fax number, email address of the person/firm who may represent you)
M/s …………… (name) is authorised, inter alia for the following: 
1) To communicate with and receive communication from the Department of Commerce
2) To make submissions on our behalf.
3) To appear for and on our behalf.
(Please strike off whichever activity is not authorised)
Date        
(Signature)
 (Name/Designation)
Note: The Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Chief Finance Officer, a Director, Partner or the proprietor of the firm 
filing response to this questionnaire shall sign the declaration – it may not be signed by the consultant.
ANNEXURE III
DRAfTING ThE NON-CONfIDENTIAL RESPONSE
All information for which confidentiality is claimed shall be submitted in a non-confidential format that enables other interested 
parties a reasonable understanding of the information that was submitted in confidence. This can either be done by submitting 
data in index form or by providing a non-confidential summary. The following example shows how the information can be 
presented.
Confidential information
Table I.1
Sales volume 2015 2016 2017 2018
model 1 489,253 538,178 527,415 406,109 
model 2    134,235   153,028  142,316 103,891 
model 3     346,234    373,933    366,454 344,467 
Total     969,722 1,065,139 1,036,185 854,467 
Indexed version
The information in Table I.1 can be reproduced in index form as follows:

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
16A
Table I.2
Sales volume 2015 2016 2017 2018
model 1 100 110 108 83
model 2 100 114 106 77
model 3 100 108 106 99
Total 100 110 107 88
ANNEXURE IV
FORM  D2.2.2(b)
COST AND PRICE BUILDUP
Notes Cost of production for the product under 
investigation
Products under 
investigation#
All other 
products
Company total 
  Total cost Cost/unit* Total cost Total cost
1 Units produced in last financial year     
2 DIRECT COST     
 Domestic materials     
 Imported materials     
3 Total materials     
 Power & fuel     
 Other direct cost     
4 fIXED OvERhEAD COST     
 Labour costs     
 Repair & maintenance     
 Rates & insurance     
 Plant depreciation     
 Other fixed cost     
5 TOTAL PRODuCTION COST     
6 Stock movement     
7 NET TOTAL PRODuCTION COST     
8 SGA COST     
 Wages and salaries     
 Other     
9 TOTAL COST     
10 Net profit     
11 TuRNOvER     

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
17A
* for cost/unit up to net production cost, divide by production volume; for cost/unit thereafter, divide by sales volume.
# Where you have different products, product types or models, these two columns should be prepared for each such 
product type or model that represents more than 5% of the value of sales of all the like products, with a further 
column for other product types or models, as well as a column with the totals of all like products.
Notes:
1 Include data, where available or known, on number of units produced in the country of origin; if no such data is 
available or known, applicant company may include its own production data corresponding to the information 
entered into Row 6 of Question E2.1
2 Direct cost is the total of “total materials”, power & fuel, and other direct costs
3 Total material is the total of domestic and imported raw materials
4 Fixed overhead cost is the total of indirect labour, repair & maintenance, rates & insurance, plant depreciation 
and other fixed costs
5 Total production cost is the total of direct cost and fixed overhead cost
6 Stock movement shall correspond to the difference between the units produced and sold
7 SGA cost is the total of SGA wages and salaries, and other costs (which include marketing, advertising, warranties, 
delivery, etc.)
8 Net total production cost is the total of total production cost and stock movement
9 Total cost is the total of net total production cost and Selling & admin cost
10 Include data, where available or known, on net profit in the country of origin. Where unknown, indicate a reasonable 
profit margin, or use the profit margin of your own company corresponding to the information provided in Row 
5 of Question E 2.1
11 Total turnover, including on exports, but only for products produced in-house ( i.e. no resales)
Schedule II                                     
(regulation 10)
Written application made by or on behalf of the Sri Lankan industry requesting investigation for imposition of 
Countervailing Duty
GENERAL INSTRuCTIONS
 1.  The Applicant shall provide full and accurate information. Provide supporting documentary evidence from commercial 
or governmental sources, e.g. subsidy programmes, investigations undertaken by other jurisdictions, and newspaper 
reports. 
 2. Supply as much of the information as possible. All cost related information shall be reconcilable to the financial 
statements or management accounts.
 3. This investigation is to be conducted, and all information provided, in English, Sinhala or Tamil.  
 4. Please seek consultations with the Director- General prior to submitting your application to ensure that the application is 
properly documented. This can prevent any undue delays owing to incomplete information and also prevent unnecessary 
COSTS.
 5.  The response to this questionnaire, as well as to any other additional request made by the Director- General subsequently, 
shall be made in hard copy and electronic form, as indicated below:  
•	 hard copies: Any questionnaire response submitted to the Director- General shall include the original and two (2) 
identical copies (in both confidential and non-confidential versions). The original document shall be initialed on 
every page and the declaration of accurateness and completeness, as set out in Annexure I of Schedule II shall be signed 
by the company’s responsible officer.

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
18A
•	 Electronic submissions: Confidential and non-confidential versions of the questionnaire response, including any 
supporting documentation, shall be submitted electronically and shall be provided in any of the following format.
Document Type Formats supported Latest Version Supported
Word Processing Microsoft Word Word 2010
Spreadsheet Microsoft Excel Excel 2010
All PDF
Electronic submissions shall be made on CDROM, DVD or memory stick, free of viruses and must be labelled clearly indicating:
1.  Party’s name;
2.  Product(s) concerned;
3.  Type of information on the disc; 
4.  Software used; and
5.  Whether the information is confidential.
Separate electronic storage shall be used for confidential and non-confidential submissions.
 6. Any documents – whether hard copies or electronic submissions – not complying with the above formalities may be 
returned to the party submitting them and not be used by the Director- General for the purpose of this investigation.
 7. Note that a copy of this questionnaire and all tables and Annexures are available in electronic format on request at the 
Department of Commerece. 
 8. Please reproduce all questions, followed by the answers, in your application.
SECTION A – GENERAL INfORmATION
A1 Identify your company 
 Name:  
 Address: 
 Telephone No: 
 Fax No:
 Webpage:
 E-mail Address: 
A2 Identify the authorised contact person(s) for your company for this investigation
 Name:
 Designation:
 Address:
 Telephone No: 
 Fax No: 
 E-mail address:
 Note that this person should be able to speak English.
A3 Legal Representative
If you have appointed a legal representative to assist you in this proceeding, please provide the following details:
  Name:
  Address:
  Telephone No: 
  Fax No: 
  E-mail address:

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
19A
Please submit an authorization for the legal representative to act on your behalf. A template is enclosed as 
Annexure II (form A3) of Schedule II.
A4 Corporate Information
 A4.1 Indicate the legal form of your company (public company, private company, fully owned subsidiary, joint venture, 
etc.)
 
 A4.2  Provide a complete listing of all shareholders that hold more than 1% of the shares in your company in the following 
format:
Name Type of share Number of shares Percentage 
shareholding
Percentage of 
voting rights
1.
2.
3.
 A4.3 Please indicate address(es) of all your offices involved in the administration, sales and production of the product 
under investigation.
  Office:
  Address:
 A4.4 Supply a detailed diagram outlining the overall internal hierarchical and organisational structure of your company. 
Please attach as Annexure A4.4.
 A4.5 Please provide your company’s worldwide corporate structure and affiliations, including parent companies, 
subsidiaries or other related companies. Please attach as Annexure A4.5.
 A4.6  Describe the nature of your relationship with the company(s) referred to in A4.5. State whether you share any board 
members or senior executives with any of those entities. If so identify the persons and nature of their affiliations.
 A4.7 Specify in detail any financial or contractual links and joint ventures with any other company concerning production, 
sales, licensing, technical and patent agreements for the product under investigation.
A5 Range of products
 A5.1 List all the products produced and/or sold by your company in Sri Lanka, i.e. not only the product that forms the 
subject of this application. Please include a brochure of all your products.
 
A6 Accounting principles and cost accounting system
 A6.1 Please indicate your financial year.
 A6.2 Please describe the accounting principles and practices used by your company. Also provide a description of the 
cost accounting system used by your company.
Please explain the details or differences, if any, between your company’s normal cost accounting system and the 
cost accounting system used to record the production costs of the products concerned and to complete the reply to 
this questionnaire.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
20A
 A6.3 Indicate whether any extraordinary or non-recurring expenses or income are affecting the production and sales of 
the like product in the reported data. Provide details of the amounts concerned.
 A6.4 Please attach copies of your audited financial statements for the last three years as Annexure A6.3. If the financial 
statements for the last financial year have not been audited yet, please include your unaudited statements.
 A6.5 Please attach copies of your monthly internal or management accounts for the full period of investigation as 
Annexure A6.5.
SECTION B – PRODuCT 
B1 Imported Product Information:
 B1.1 Provide a complete description of the alleged subsidised  products. Specifically provide details on the following:
 (a) Product name;
 (b) Physical appearance;
 (c) Technical characteristics;
 (d) Raw materials;
 (e) Production process;
 (f) Functions and end-use;
 (g) Distribution channels;
 (h) Tariff classification;
 (i) Applicable technical specifications or standards (national or international);
 (j) Any other information used to distinguish the product from similar products.
Attach a copy of the tariff description from the Sri Lanka Tariff Code Book as Annexure B1.1(a).
If available, attach copies of brochures or photographs showing the imported product as Annexure B1.1(b).
 
 B1.2 Indicate the countries of export of the alleged subsidised product.
B2  Sri Lanka Like Product Information:
 B2.1 Provide a complete description of your product. Specifically provide details on the following:
(a) Product name;
(b) Physical appearance;
(c) Technical characteristics;
(d) Raw materials;
(e) Production process;
(f) End-use;
(g) Tariff classification;
(h) Applicable technical specifications or standards (national or international);
(i) Any other information used to distinguish the product from similar products.
Attach copies of brochures/photos showing your product as Annexure B2.1.
 B2.2  Describe the manufacturing process for the like product. Flow charts explaining the manufacturing process, including 
a step-by-step explanation of the production process starting from the first input of primary material and ending 
with the packaging of the like product may be u sed in this respect.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
21A
 B2.3 If your product is manufactured from both Sri Lankan and imported inputs, or only from imported inputs:
 (a)  identify the imported inputs and describe their use in the like product or directly competitive product; and
 (b)  state whether at least one substantial process of manufacture occurs in Sri Lanka (for example by reference 
to the value added, complexity of process, or capital invested).
 B2.4 Describe in detail your company’s product coding system. Provide a key to your production and sales codes, 
including all prefixes, suffixes, or other notations, which identify special specifications. Note: this coding may 
assist the Director- General in obtaining relevant product-specific information from exporters and importers, 
although the Director- General may decide to adjust the coding system used.
 B2.5 Specifically provide details on differences between the imported product and the Sri Lanka like product.
 B2.6 Indicate how these differences affect substitutability, consumer preference and prices.
SECTION C – INTERESTED PARTIES 
Note: Identification of the interested parties is essential for initiating an investigation 
If the application is submitted on behalf of Sri Lankan producers by an association, a consulting firm, etc., declarations of 
support from each producer shall be submitted in the application. Annexure III (FORM C1) of Schedule II contains the 
format for such declarations.
C1 Domestic industry:
 C1.1  Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, contact person, email) of all known domestic 
(Sri Lanka) producers of the like product.
 C1.2  Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number) of all known chambers and trade associations 
for the like product in Sri Lanka.
 C1.3 Do you import the subject product? If so, please indicate your reasons for importation and provide information on 
the types/models, the volume and value imported during the period of three years of the  injury investigation.
 C1.4  Does any of the domestic producers import the alleged subsidised product (that is, from a country under 
investigation)? If yes, to the extent possible, please provide details of the volume and value of all such imports 
during the last three years and the year to date.
 C1.5 Does any of the domestic producers import the like product from any third country? If yes, please provide details 
of the volume and value of all such imports during the last three years and the year to date.
 C1.6 Are any of the domestic producers related to the exporters or importers of the alleged subsidised product? If yes, 
state the nature of such relationship.
 C1.7 State the volume of Sri Lanka production with a separate breakdown of that of the applicant and of other Sri Lanka 
producers not party to this complaint. The application shall be supported by at least 25% of the domestic industry 
by production volume, with more producers by production volume supporting the application than those opposing 
it. Please provide the data in the following format, by indicating the party’s volume of production in the relevant 
column:

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
22A
Table C1.7
Support application Neutral Oppose application
Applicant
Other producer 1*
Other producer 2*
Total
  
                            Note: Insert as many rows as required.
  Attach letters of support from other producers as Annexure C1.7.
  * - indicate name of producer
C2 Other interested parties
 C2.1 Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, email, website) of all known exporters 
and foreign manufacturers of the alleged subsidised product (in the countries under investigation). 
 C2.2 Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, email) of all known Sri Lankan importers 
of the alleged subsidised product.
 C2.3 Provide the names and full contact details (address, telephone number, email) of all known domestic (Sri Lanka) 
users of the alleged subsidised product if it is a product that is used in downstream manufacturing.
SECTION D  – SuBSIDISATION 
Please supply the following information:
 D1 Name the country in which the government provides the financial aid or other assistance.
 D2 Name the product/s that benefit from the assistance.
 D3 Give details of the financial aid or other assistance scheme. Substantiate your reply with documentation, e.g. 
government publications or international literature. Attach English translations where applicable.
Indicate the following:
(a) title and description of the subsidy programmes;
(b) conditions for granting the subsidy;
(c) the statutory body or authority under which the subsidy is provided;
(d) list the producers/exporters of the like product;
(e) the manner in which the subsidy is conveyed; and
(f) the estimated value of the subsidy when received and used by producers or sellers of the like goods with details 
of calculations.
Note: this information shall be supplied separately in respect of each subsidy programme alleged.
 D4 Submit details of the financial aid or other assistance scheme regarding any inputs of the product under investigation 
in the same detail as requested under question D3 above.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
23A
D5 Export Price: 
Provide the export price of the alleged subsidised product sold to an importer in Sri Lanka. Ideally this price shall be at the CIF 
level and shall reflect a price within the 12 (and preferably 6) months preceding the submission of the application. However, 
for the purposes of the application the export price may be based on various options, including the following:
 (a) an actual export invoice to Sri Lanka; 
 (b)  an export quotation for export of the alleged subsidised product to Sri Lanka, including an export price list (which 
can include a price indicated on internet);
 (c) the price at which the product is bought or sold by the importer, less all costs, charges, expenses, duties and taxes 
to arrive at the ex-factory price; or
 (d) the export price as contained in the import statistics provided by Customs.
 
D5.1 Export price obtained
 (a) Indicate the export price you have obtained. Indicate the level of trade (ex-factory, FOB, C&F, CIF, etc.) at which 
the price was obtained.
 (b) Provide proof of the price you obtained, e.g. a copy of the invoice, quotation or the Customs statistics. Attach 
this as Annexure D5.1(b).
 (c) Indicate the adjustments that need to be made to obtain the CIF (cost, insurance and freight) export price.
 (d) Submit evidence to substantiate the adjustments made. Attach this as Annexure D5.1(d).
If there are several different products, types or models, calculate export prices for a representative sample of models, 
types, grades, etc. Provide the basis for your selection of the models, e.g. highest selling models sold by the Sri 
Lanka industry, etc.
D5.2 Import price obtained 
In the event the applicant is unable to obtain an export price under D5.1, or where the export price is unreliable on the basis 
that such sales are made to a related party in Sri Lanka, the price may be constructed on the basis of the price at which the 
alleged subsidised product is sold to the first independent buyer. If this alternative is used, supply the following information:
 (a) Indicate the import price you have obtained. Indicate the level of trade (distributor, wholesaler, retailer or end-
user) at which the price was obtained.
 (b) Provide proof of the price you obtained, i.e. a copy of the invoice. Attach this as Annexure D5.2(b).
 (c) Indicate the adjustments that need to be made to obtain the CIF price. This may include all costs between the 
selling price to the independent buyer and the CIF export price.
 (d) Submit evidence to substantiate the adjustments made. Attach this as Annexure D5.2(d).
D6 margin of subsidisation: 
Indicate the margin of subsidisation, expressed as a percentage of the CIF price, of the alleged subsidised product. Provide 
the follo wing information:

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
24A
Price/unit
A. Subsidy 1  (per unit)
B. Subsidy 2  (per unit) *
C. Total subsidy (per unit)
D. CIF export price
E. Margin of subsidisation percentage (C/D)#
* - repeat as required
# - no investigation may be initiated if the margin of subsidy is less than 1% (in the case of imports from developed countries) 
or 2% (in the case of developing countries).
SECTION E – INJuRY 
E1 Import statistics: 
 E1.1  Provide the import statistics for the alleged subsidised product in the following format (insert the names of the 
exporting countries as required):  
Table E1.1: Import volumes (indicate unit of measurement – kg/units/litres)
Volume 201x 201x 201x 201x
Country 1
Country 2
Sub-total
Other imports
Total imports
Identify each country alleged to be dumping the product on the Sri Lanka market (insert additional rows in the Tables as 
required). 
If imports take place under different tariff subheadings, the tables in E1.1, E1.2 and E1.3 shall be completed separately for 
each tariff subheading, as well as for all products combined.
Provide information for the last three full years and the current year to date (as recent as information is available from 
Customs) and indicate in the headings to which years the information relates to. Clearly indicate whether the information 
relates to calendar or financial years. This relates to all three tables (E1.1, E1.2 and E1.3)
Table E1.2: Import values
Value 201x 201x 201x 201x
Country 1
Country 2
Sub-total
Other imports
Total imports

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
25A
Table E1.3: Import prices
Unit price 201x 201x 201x 201x
Country 1
Country 2
Sub-total
Other imports
Total imports
E2 material injury: 
E2.1 Please supply the following injury information from your financial statements. 
Note Description 201x 201x 201x 201x
1 Units sold (Sri Lanka)     
2 Turnover (Sri Lanka)     
3 Average Sri Lanka selling price     
4 Gross profit on Sri Lanka sales     
5 Net profit on Sri Lanka sales     
6 Actual (total) production     
7 Actual production for Sri Lanka     
8 Capacity utilisation %     
9 Total production workers     
10 SGA staff     
11 Total staff     
12 Production staff wages
13 Total salaries and wages
14 Number of shifts worked (per year)     
15 Units produced per worker     
16 Incoming cash flow
17 Outgoing cash flow
18 Net cash flow
19 Net assets
20 Return on net assets
21 Inventories (units)     
22 Inventories (value)     

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
26A
In completing this table, please refer to the following explanatory notes. Where necessary, indicate this separately for 
each product group/model as well as the total.
Note Description Note Description
1 Indicate the volume of sales of the like product in Sri 
Lanka. Also indicate the unit of measurement (units, 
kg, etc.)
. 
12 Indicate total wages paid to production workers
2 Indicate the value of turnover of the like product at ex-
factory (undelivered) level
13 Indicate total wages paid to all employees, 
including the sales and marketing team
3 Divide the total value of sales by the total volume of sales 14 State the actual number of shifts worked on the 
production of the like product for the full year 
(count every shift individually)
4 State the total gross profit (GP) on Sri Lanka sales of the 
like product. GP relates to the difference between the 
turnover indicated under note 2 and the total production 
cost, inclusive of raw material, labour, factory overheads, 
depreciation, etc., but excluding any SGA costs.
15 Divide the total production units by the number 
of production workers
5 State the total net profit on Sri Lanka sales of the like 
product. Net profit relates to the difference between 
the turnover indicated under note 2 and TOTAL costs, 
including selling, general and administrative (SGA) 
expenses
16 State the outgoing cash flow for the product only. 
If this is not possible, provide it for the narrowest 
group of products for which it is available
6 Indicate the actual total volume produced of the like 
product during the period indicated (regardless of 
destination)
17 State the incoming cash flow for the product only. 
If this is not possible, provide it for the narrowest 
group of products for which it is available
7 Indicate that part of the production volume of the like 
product that was destined for sales in Sri Lanka, thus 
excluding production for the export market
18 State the net cash flow for the product only. If 
this is not possible, provide it for the narrowest 
group of products for which it is available
8 Express your actual total production as a percentage of 
your actual capacity
19 Indicate the value of your net assets (i.e. after 
depreciation and amortization) invested in the 
like product. If not possible, indicate the total net 
assets for the company, but add a qualifying note
9 Indicate the number of production workers dedicated to 
production of the like product only. If this is not possible, 
provide it for the narrowest group of products for which 
it is available
20 Divide your profit for the like product (note 5) 
by the net assets (note 19)
10 Indicate the number of SGA staff, including management 
dedicated to sales of the like product. 
1
21 indicate your inventory volumes for the like 
product 
11 Add the total number of production and SGA staff 22 indicate your inventory values for the like 
product 
1  If this cannot be separately indicated, please indicate the number of workers for the narrowest group of products or for the 
company in total, but add a qualifying note to this effect.

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
27A
E3: Cost Build-up
Please complete the cost build-up in Annexure V (FORM E3) of Schedule II.
E4: Threat of injury:
Note: It is not necessary to complete this section if you can prove material injury under question E2. 
If an application only be based on a threat of material injury, you still have to complete the information in question E2, but 
you need to add two columns for the current year and the next year, providing substantiated estimates for all injury 
factors, in addition to the information requested in this section.
 E4.1 Give details on the freely disposable capacity or imminent substantial increase in capacity of the exporter.
 E4.2 Substantiate any significant increase of allegedly subsidised imports into Sri Lanka indicating the likelihood of 
substantially further increased importation.
 E4.3 State whether the products concerned enter the country at prices that will have a significant depressing or suppressing 
effect on the Sri Lankan like product prices and are likely to increase demand for further imports. Substantiate your 
reply. (A depressing effect means the actual lowering of existing prices and a suppressing effect means the prevention 
of price increases that would have normally been affected.)
 E4.4 Indicate the exporters’ inventories of the product being investigated.
 E4.5 Indicate the state of the economy of the country of origin/export and its influence on the operations of the 
manufacturers/exporters.
 E4.6 Give any other information relevant to your allegation that the infliction of material injury is imminent.
SECTION f  – CAuSALITY 
Causality: 
The applicant, in addition to providing the data establishing subsidised imports and material in injury on a prima facie basis, 
shall demonstrate that there is a causal link between the subsidised imports and the material injury. This does not mean that 
the subsidised imports shall be the only reason for any injury suffered. Causality is usually shown by the coincidence in time 
of the increasing subsidised imports with the deterioration of the situation of the industry as shown by the development of 
the injury factors outlined above.
f1 Link between subsidised imports and injury
Submit your reasons for alleging that the alleged subsidised imports are the cause of your material injury. Refer to matters such 
as the increase in imports of the investigation period compared to decreases in your sales volumes; price undercutting during 
the investigation period; and other factors that can directly link injury to the alleged subsidised imports. Note that attention 
shall not only be given to the end-point analysis (i.e. the figures in the first and last years), but also to intervening trends.
f2 Other factors causing injury
Indicate any other factors that contributed to the injury experienced by the domestic industry. This might include natural 
disasters, strikes, changes in consumer demand, technological advances, contraction of the market or decreased exports.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
28A
ANNEXURE  I
DECLARATION
Having made the enquiry, I hereby certify that the information contained in this submission is true, complete and correct 
to the best of my knowledge and belief, on the basis of records available and generally maintained by the company, and no 
material has been concealed or misrepresented.
Date _________________                                                                       
                                                                                                          
 _________________
 (Signature)
                                                                                                          
 _________________
 (Name/Designation)
Notes: (1) This page shall be completed and appended at the beginning of your submission.
 (2)  The Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Chief Finance Officer, a Director, Partner or the proprietor of 
the firm filing response to this questionnaire shall sign the declaration – it may not be signed by the consultant.
ANNEXURE   II
FORM A3
AuThORISATION LETTER
We hereby appoint the following person/firm in Sri Lanka to represent us in the countervailing investigation being conducted 
by the Director- General. This representation will remain in effect until revoked in writing.
(Name, address, telephone, fax number, email address of the person/firm who may represent you)
M/s …………… (name) is authorised, inter alia for the following: 
 1)  To communicate with and receive communication from the Department of Commerce
 2)  To make submissions on our behalf.
 3)  To appear for and on our behalf.
(Please strike off whichever activity is not authorised)
Date  __________________        
 
 _________________
 (Signature)
                                                                                                          
 _________________
 (Name/Designation)
Note: The Chief Executive Officer, Managing Director, Chief Finance Officer, a Director, Partner or the proprietor of the firm 
filing response to this questionnaire shall sign the declaration – it may not be signed by the consultant.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
29A
ANNEXURE III
DECLARATION Of  SuPPORT 
FORM C 1
[NOTE that this certification shall be produced and signed on your company’s letterhead by an officer who has authority 
to submit information on behalf of the company]
DECLARATION Of  SuPPORT TO AN APPLICATION fOR ThE INITIATION Of  A COuNTER v AILING DuTY 
INvESTIGATION CONCERNING ImPORT Of  [INSERT SuBJECT PRODuCTS] 
I, the undersigned, confirm that [insert name of company] support the application for the initiation of an anti-
dumping investigation concerning imports of [ insert subject product].  
For the purpose of determining industry standing, [insert name of your company] produced [insert number of 
units produced] (in units, in kilograms, etc.) during the period [insert period]. [insert name of company] is not importing 
[insert subject product], nor it is related with any company in Sri Lanka importing that product.
[insert name of your company] is willing to cooperate with the Director-General of Commerce in its examination 
of whether the Sri Lankan industry producing and selling the like and/or the directly competitive product is suffering serious 
injury or a threat of serious injury caused by increased imports. 
I, [insert name & surname], [position] of [insert name of your company] certify that the information submitted 
herewith to the Director-General of Commerce is accurate and complete. I also accept a verification of the said information.
Signed __________________________________________
[Insert City] (Sri Lanka), [ Insert date] 
Telephone #: [insert telephone number]
Email:   [insert email address]
Address:  [insert address]
ANNEXURE IV
DRAfTING ThE NON-CONfIDENTIAL RESPONSE
All information for which confidentiality is claimed shall be submitted in a non-confidential format that enables 
other interested parties a reasonable understanding of the information that was submitted in confidence. This can either be 
done by submitting data in index form or by providing a non-confidential summary. The following example shows how the 
information can be presented.
Confidential information
Table I.1
Sales volume 2015 2016 2017 2018
model 1 489,253 538,178 527,415 406,109 
model 2    134,235   153,028  142,316 103,891 
model 3     346,234    373,933    366,454 344,467 
Total     969,722 1,065,139 1,036,185 854,467 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
30A
Indexed version
The information in Table I.1 can be reproduced in index form as follows:
Table I.2
Sales volume 2015 2016 2017 2018
model 1 100 110 108 83
model 2 100 114 106 77
model 3 100 108 106 99
Total 100 110 107 88
ANNEXURE V
FORM E3
COST AND PRICE BUILDUP
Notes Cost of production for the product under 
investigation
Products under 
investigation#
All other 
products
Company total 
  Total cost Cost/unit* Total cost Total cost
1 Units produced in last financial year     
2 DIRECT COST     
 Domestic materials     
 Imported materials     
3 Total materials     
 Power & fuel     
 Other direct cost     
4 fIXED OvERhEAD COST     
 Labour costs     
 Repair & maintenance     
 Rates & insurance     
 Plant depreciation     
 Other fixed cost     
5 TOTAL PRODuCTION COST     
6 Stock movement     
7 NET TOTAL PRODuCTION COST     
8 SGA COST     
 Wages and salaries     
 Other     
9 TOTAL COST     
10 Net profit     
11 TuRNOvER     

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
31A
* for cost/unit up to net production cost, divide by production volume; for cost/unit thereafter, divide by sales volume
# Where you have different products, product types or models, these two columns shall be prepared for each such 
product type or model that represents more than 5% of the value of sales of all the like products, with a further 
column for other product types or models, as well as a column with the totals of all like products.
Notes:
1 Include data, where available or known, on number of units produced in the country of origin; if no such data is 
available or known, applicant company may include its own production data corresponding to the information 
entered into Row 6 of Question E2.1
2 Direct cost is the total of “total materials”, power & fuel, and other direct costs
3 Total materials is the total of domestic and imported raw materials
4 Fixed overhead cost is the total of indirect labour, repair & maintenance, rates & insurance, plant depreciation 
and other fixed costs
5 Total production cost is the total of direct cost and fixed overhead cost
6 Stock movement shall correspond to the difference between the units produced and sold
7 SGA cost is the total of SGA wages and salaries, and other costs (which include marketing, advertising, 
warranties, delivery, etc.)
8 Net total production cost is the total of total production cost and stock movement
9 Total cost is the total of net total production cost and Selling & admin cost
10 Include data, where available or known, on net profit in the country of origin. Where unknown, indicate a 
reasonable profit margin, or use the profit margin of your own company corresponding to the information 
provided in Row 5 of Question E 2.1
11 Total turnover, including on exports, but only for products produced in-house (i.e. no resales)
 GLOSSARY
Act Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties Act, 2 of 2018
C&F Cost and freight
CIF Cost, insurance and freight
Cost of production All costs to produce the product, excluding any SGA costs and profit
Direct production cost Costs directly related to the production of the product, e.g. raw materials and compo-
nents. Also called variable costs.
Fixed cost Costs that are fixed, i.e. costs that do not change along with changes in production 
volumes. Also called indirect production costs.
FOB Free on Board
Foreign like product Product sold on the domestic market of the exporter
GATT General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
Gross profit Difference between selling price and cost of production
Indirect production cost Costs indirectly related to the production of the product, e.g. direct labour (where the 
number of labour units does not change with changes in production volumes) and de-
preciation. Also called fixed cost.
Net profit Difference between selling price and total cost
Price undercutting The extent to which the price of the imported product is lower than the price for your 
product
SGA costs Selling, general and administrative costs
Subsidies Agreement Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures
WTO World Trade Organisation
EOG 03- 0256/1 

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
32A
L.D.B 3/2019
ThE  ANTI -DumPING  AND  COuNTER v AILING  DuTIES  ACT , NO . 2 Of 2018
REGuLATIONS made by the Minister of Trade, Commerce, Food Security and Cooperative Development under Section 
84 read with section 45(5) of Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties Act, No. 2 of 2018.
 Wasantha Samarasinghe,
 Minister of Trade, Commerce, Food Security 
 and Cooperative Development.
Colombo,  
27th March, 2025.
Regulations
 1.  These regulations may be cited as the Procedure for Price Undertakings Regulations 2025.
 2.  The Director- General of Commerce (in these regulations referred to as the ‘Director- General’) may suspend or 
terminate an investigation for imposition of anti-dumping duty without the imposition of provisional measures or 
anti-dumping duties, if the exporter of the article in question, -
 (a) furnishes an undertaking in writing to the Director- General to revise the prices so that no exports of the said 
article are made to Sri Lanka at dumped prices; or
 (b) in the case of imports from specified countries, undertakes to revise the prices so that injurious effect of dumping 
is eliminated and, the Director- General is satisfied that the injurious effect of the dumping is eliminated:
 
  Provided that, the Director-General shall complete the investigation and record its findings, if the exporter so 
desires, or the Director-General so decides.
 3.  A written request for a price undertaking may be made by an exporter at any time during an investigation for impo-
sition of anti-dumping conducted under the Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties Act, No. 2 of 2018 ( in these 
regulations referred to as the ‘Act’) and regulations made thereunder. The application for a price undertaking shall 
be made in a form as set out in the Schedule hereto:
  Provided that, no undertaking shall be accepted from any exporter until the preliminary affirmative determination 
is made of dumping, injury and causal link:
  Provided further that, the Director- General may not accept undertakings offered by any exporter, if he considers 
that acceptance of such undertaking is impractical or is unacceptable  for any other reasons including reasons of 
general policy.
 4.  The Director- General shall inform the acceptance of an undertaking and suspension or termination of investigation 
to the Minister assigned the subject of Finance, and also issue a public notice in this regard. The public notice shall, 
contain inter alia, the non-confidential part of the undertaking.
 5.  Where an undertaking has been accepted by the Director- General, the Minister assigned the subject of Finance may 
not impose a duty under section 48 of the Act for such period the undertaking acceptable to, and the price undertaking 
remains valid.
 6. Where the Director- General -
 (a) accepts a price undertaking, he shall publish a notice to that effect in the Gazette and in any newspaper widely 
circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languag es; or

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
33A
 (b) refuses to accept a price undertaking, he shall provide the reasons therefor and shall give the exporter an 
opportunity to make any comments thereon.
 7. The public notice of the acceptance of an undertaking shall –
                   (a) be forwarded to the country or countries the products of which are subject to such
                         determination, and to any other known parties interested; and 
                   (b) include the non- confidential part of the undertaking and set forth in sufficient detail
                        the findings and conclusions on all issues of fact and law considered material by
                        the Director- General. 
 8.  Where, the Director- General has accepted any undertaking under regulation 3, he may require the exporter from 
whom such undertaking has been accepted to provide periodically, information relevant to the fulfilment of such 
undertaking, to permit verification of the fulfillment of such undertaking, and to permit verification of the information 
so provided. The communication of these data shall be subject to the provisions of the Act relating to confidentiality. 
A failure to provide information requested by the Director- General shall be a violation of the undertaking. 
 9. (1) Where an exporter so desires or the Director-General so decides to complete the investigation of dumping and 
injury under regulation  2, the Director- General shall publish a notice of the continuation of investigation, setting 
forth the final determination, and any other modifications to the proposed procedure adopted for the conduct of the 
investigation. 
                 (2) The Director- General shall make any final determination in a continued investigation referred to above, within 
a period of six months from the date of publication of such notice. 
 10.  Where an undertaking is violated , the Director- General shall take all steps as may be necessary for the imposition 
of provisional measures using the best information available. 
 11.  Where provisional measures imposed, definitive duties may be levied in accordance with the Act on goods imported 
for consumption not more than a period of three months before the application of such provisional measures:
  Provided that any such assessment shall not apply to imports entered before the violation of the undertaking. 
 12.  For the purpose of these regulations, ‘dumping, injury and causal link’, ‘final determination’, ‘preliminary affirmative 
determination’, ‘price undertaking’ and ‘provisional measures’ shall have the same meaning as assigned in the Act.
 13.  The above regulations shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to price undertakings in the context of a countervailing 
investigation.
SChEDuLE    
 [regulation 3]
APPLICATION FOR PRICE UNDERTAKING
UNDERTAKING OFFERED BY (Company Name (Producer/ Exporter, Country) TO THE DIRECTOR- GENERAL OF 
COMMERCE, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE, SRI LANKA, IN THE MATTER RELATING TO ANTI- DUMPING 
INVESTIGATION CONCERNING IMPORTS OF ……………..(Product Name). 
 1.  ……………..(company name producer/ exporter, country), hereinafter referred to as “the company”, offers to 
the DIRECTOR- GENERAL OF COMMERCE (hereinafter referred to as Director- General ) in Department of 
Commerce, Sri Lanka, the undertaking described below and in appendices (appendices at A, B and C) which are 

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
34A
attached to and form an integral part of this undertaking concerning ………….. (Product Name), as defined in 
paragraph 2, which are the subject of the anti- dumping investigation initiated by the Director- General  on ……….
(dated), and preliminary findings notified by the Director- General on ……..(date of the preliminary findings). 
 2.  This undertaking pertains only to those goods named by the Director- General in the above-noted preliminary findings. 
Such goods are defined as…………………………………(product description as defined for the investigation) and 
are hereinafter referred to as “the subject goods”.
 3.  The company agrees not to sell the subject goods for export to Sri Lanka at prices lower than ………..(state terms 
of undertaking, for example, specify whether prices are FOB, CIF, etc.) and indicate prices ……… stipulated in the 
grid in Appendix “A”. 
 4.  The company agrees not to circumvent this undertaking in any way including the shipment of the subject goods to 
Sri Lanka through a subsidiary, branch, agent or other company, or by the direct shipment of the subject goods to 
Sri Lanka from a country other than the Country of origin/export.
 5.  The company agrees to provide to the Director- General copies of documents as described in Appendix “B”. 
 6.  The company agrees to provide to the Director- General invoice and/or the commercial invoice submitted to meet 
the Director- General’s invoicing requirements regarding the information as described in Appendix “C”.
 7. The company agrees that prior to the execution of any sale for export to Sri Lanka of new products, models or sizes 
which fall within the definition of the subject goods in paragraph 2, but are not referred to specifically in Appendix 
“A” to notify the Director- General of such a sale; provide any information that may be requested by the Director- 
General  to determine an appropriate undertaking price at that time; and to amend Appendix “A” of this undertaking 
to include such new products, models or sizes. 
 8.  The company agrees to provide information which may be required by the Director- General to demonstrate adherence 
to this undertaking and to permit, upon request, verification by the Director - General of any such information 
provided. 
 9.  The company agrees to, at the discretion of the Director- General, amend this undertaking, including its appendices, 
in whole or in part, to take into account any changes in circumstances from those which prevailed at the time this 
undertaking was accepted. 
 10.  The company agrees that this undertaking shall take effect from ………(on the date of its acceptance by the Director- 
General or such other date as may be appropriate) and shall apply to all subject goods released by the Authority on 
or after this date. 
 11.  The company acknowledges the right of the Authority to terminate this undertaking at any time after its acceptance 
where the Director- General -
              (a)  is satisfied that the undertaking has been or is being violated; 
              (b)  is of the opinion that, as a result of new information not available at the time of the acceptance of the undertaking, 
the undertaking would have not been accepted; or; 
 (c) is of the opinion that, as a result of changing circumstances, the undertaking no longer fulfils its objectives. 
 12.  The company further acknowledges the right of the Director- General, upon termination of this undertaking, to make 
a preliminary determination with respect to the goods, as defined in paragraph 2, and to resume the investigation. 

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
35A
 13.  The company shall give the Director- General written notice of its intention to withdraw from this undertaking at 
least 30 days prior to the date of such withdrawal.
 14. This undertaking shall be binding upon all successors and assignees of the Company. 
  In witness whereof, the company has hereto affix its corporate seal, attested by its duly authorized officer(s) on this 
date of, …………. 
Name of the company
 Seal 
Signature of witness                                                               Signature of authorised officer(s)  
Name and title of witness                                                  Name and title(s) of authorised officer(s) 
This undertaking document and the attached appendices A, B and C are stamped CONFIDENTIAL as they contain sensitive 
commercial information relating to our business operations.
APPENDIX “A”
This Appendix is attached to and forms an integral part of the undertaking submitted   by company …………….. (name: 
producer/ exporter, country) to the Director- General of Commerce, Government of Sri Lanka on ……………(dated).
1. In accordance with paragraph 3 of the undertaking, the company agrees not to sell the subject goods to importers 
in Sri Lanka at prices lower than the prices stipulated as follows:
(a) Product description: ……………………………………..............
(b) Product (grade/ model/size) ……………………………………
(c) Price Undertaking …………………………………………………..
2. All prices are quoted in ……………..(state the currency of settlement and the unit of 
measure, if appropriate – also state terms of sale, for example, specify whether prices are FOB, CIF, etc. and indicate 
location). 
3. The selling prices in the undertaking mentioned above shall apply to shipments of the subject goods that are imported 
into Sri Lanka (on or after the date of acceptance of this undertaking by the Director- General of Commerce, or such 
other date as may be appropriate).
4. In witness whereof, the company has hereto affixed its corporate seal, attested by its duly  authorised officer (s) on 
this _____________ date of ____________, _____
Name of the company
Seal
Signature of witness                                                                  Signature of authorised officer(s)
Name and title of witness                                                  Name and title(s) of authorised officer(s) 

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
36A
APPENDIX “B”
This Appendix is attached to and forms an integral part of the undertaking
submitted by company …………….. (name: producer/ exporter, country) to the Director- General of Commerce, Government 
of Sri Lanka, on ………….(date).
1. In accordance with paragraph 5 of the undertaking, the company agrees to provide the
 Department with the following documents:
(a)  Each time there is a price change in the company’s domestic market, a copy of the notification letter, 
if any, sent to customers along with the revised price lists. These documents will be emailed/faxed 
immediately to the attention of the Director- General of Commerce, accompanied by a covering letter 
referring to this undertaking. The original documents will be forwarded to the Department by express 
delivery.
 
(b) An amended Appendix “A” will also be emailed/faxed at the same time as the   
                   transmittal being made in accordance with section 1(a) above. The amendment will   reflect the  revised 
undertaking prices calculated by ……………………..
(details regarding methodology used including an explicit re-statement of the terms of sale, currency 
of settlement and unit measure where required), to the current prices in effect as stipulated in the above 
mentioned price undertaking contained in Appendix “A”. The original document will be forwarded to 
the Department of Commerce  by express delivery in conjunction with the documents noted in section 
1 (a) above; and
(c)  ……………………………………………(state other documents which will be provided and when they 
will be provided).
In witness whereof the company has hereto affixed its corporate seal, attested by its duly authorized officer(s) on this day of,
Name of the company
Seal
Signature of witness                                                                 Signature of authorised officer(s)
Name and title of witness                                                        Name and title(s) of authorised officer(s
APPENDIX “C”
This Appendix is attached to and forms an integral part of the undertaking submitted   by company …………….. (name: 
producer/ exporter, country) to the Director - General of Commerce, Government of Sri Lanka, on ………………. (dated).
 1. In accordance with paragraph 6 of the undertaking, the company agrees to provide to the Director - General of 
Commerce, invoice and/or the commercial invoice submitted to meet his invoicing requirements with respect to 
each shipment of the subject goods. 
 2.  The necessary information is as follows:
 (a) customer’s order number and date of order;
 (b) product (grade/model/number/Size etc.);

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'27
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.03.2025
37A
 (c) product description in sufficient detail to match the applicable description of the subject good(s) found in the 
undertaking price grid in Appendix ‘A’
 (d)  terms and conditions of sale;
 (e) quantity of (product) in (unit of measurement) for each (class/model/ number/size  etc.); and
 (f)  unit price of the (product) in (currency of settlement) for (class/model/ number/size etc.).
 3. The Company agrees to certify on each document to the effect that the prices are in accordance with ….…………. 
(company’s name) current undertaking accepted by the Department of Custom, Department of Inland Revenue Sri 
Lanka on …………. (date of acceptance by the authority).
 4. In witness whereof, the company has hereto affixed its corporate seal, attested by its duly authorized officer(s) on 
this date of, …………….
Name of the company
Seal
Signature of witness                                                           Signature of authorised officer(s)
  
Name and title of witness                                               Name and title(s) of authorised office
EOG 03 - 0256/2
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.