

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
121
121
wxl 1"743 - 2012 ckjdß 27 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'01'27
No. 1,743 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 27, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 124
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 129
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 03rd February, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
January, 2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— (i) Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka of 02nd December, 2011.
(ii) Welanhinna Wachissara International Cultural Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of
the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Repubilc of Sri Lanka of 16th December, 2011.
(iii) Al-Iman Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Repubilc of Sri Lanka of 16th December, 2011.
N. B :- Parts I, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,742 of 20.01.2012 were not published.
The List of Jurors in Tangalle High Court Zone - 2012 has been published in Part VI of this Gazette in Sinhala Language only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
122
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
123
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
124
Posts – Vacant
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Applications are called for in terms of Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act, (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of
Quazis for the areas indicated in the Schedule hereto
PERSONS with following qualifications may apply :
Any Muslim made who is a graduate of a recognized university or a Moulavi holding a certificate from an institution recognized
by the Ministry in charge of Muslim Religious and Cultural Affairs or a holder of the Al-Alim certificate issued by the Departm ent of
Education or an Attorney-at-Law or a holder of other similar professional qualifications or a retired public servant who has held office in
staff grade.
A person currently holding a permanent post in the public service shall not be eligible to apply. Applicants should be married
persons over 40 years of age and of good character and standing in the community and possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating
to Muslim marriage and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period which will be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for which he is appointed.
A Quazi will be paid a monthly allowance of Rs. 6,000 and an all inclusive allowance of Rs. 5,000 per month for the cost of
support services, stationery and postal expenses.
Application forms can be obtained from the Judicial Service Commission Secretariat and should be sent by registered post to
reach the Secretary, Judicial Service Commission on or before 20th February, 2012. The envlope containing the application shoul d be
marked - "Post of Quazi" on its top left hand corner.
S
UDATH N. GOPALLAWA,
SECRETARY,
Judicial Service Commission.
Judicial Service Commission Secretariat,
P. O. Box 573,
Hulftsdorp Street,
Colombo 12,
10th January, 2012.
SCHEDULE
01. Hatton : Applications are invited by the Judicial Service Commission under the Muslim marriages and divorce Act, (Chapter 11 5)
for the post of Quazi in the Judicial Division of Hatton.
01–676
–––––––––––––––––––
GENERAL   SIR   JOHN   KOTELAWALA   DEFENCE
UNIVERSITY
Undergraduate Cadetships (Male/Female)
APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans
for Undergraduate Cadetships (Male and Female) in the General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University from 29th January, 2012 to
29th February, 2012.
2. The General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University is
empowered to award degrees by the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments
thereto, to those who have successfully completed the Academic
and Military components of studies pertaining to the Degree
programmes.
3. The Degree programmes applicable to these cadets will be of
five year duration for Medical Stream, four and half year duration
for Engineering Stream, four year duration for Information and
Communication Technology Stream and Law Stream three year
duration for Management and Technical Sciences, Logistic
Management and Social Sciences Streams.
3.1 The allocation of Cadets for three services will be based
on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availability of vacancies
in each service. Cadets will be commissioned in the regular

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
125
Forces of Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, after
successful completion of the Degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military
training components of the Degree programmes, the
Officer Cadets will be awarded Bachelor of Medicine and
Surgery (MBBS), Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in the
disciplines of Engineering, Information and
Communication Technology, Management and Technical
Sciences, Logistic Management, Social Sciences or
Bachelor of Laws as applicable.
3.3 All Degree programmes are conducted in the medium of
English.
3.4 Selected candidates will have to be followed one of the
following Bachelors Degree Programmes :–
(a) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS) - Five
year course (Male and Female) :–
For those who have followed Bio Science Stream
(Biology, Chemistry and Physics) at the G. C. E.
(A/L) Examination in 2011 and passed three (3)
subjects and be eligible to apply for the University
Admission (YES).
(b) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Engineering in Civil/
Mechanical/Electrical and Electronic, Electronic and
Telecommunication Marine and Aeronautical - Four
and half year course (Male only) :–
For those who have followed Maths Stream
(Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics)
at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and passed three
(03) subjects and be eligible to apply for the
University Admission (YES).
(c) Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) in Information and
Communication Technology - Four year course
(Male and Female) :–
For those who have followed any stream at the
G . C. E. (A/L) examination and passed three (03)
subjects and be eligible to apply for the University
Admission (YES).
(d) Bachelor of Laws (LLB) - Four year course (Male
and Female) :–
For those who have passed three (3) of the
following subjects at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
and be eligible to apply for the University
Admission (YES).
Accounting Political Science Agricultural
Geography Biology Science
Business History Business
Statistics Economics Studies
Chemistry English (Subject Physics
Sinhala/Tamil No. 73) Advanced
Mathematics/ M athematics
Combined
Mathematics
Logic and
Scientific
Method
(e) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) - Management and
Technical Sciences - Three year course (Male and
Female) :–
For those who have followed Bio Science or
Maths Streams at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
and passed three (03) subjects and be eligible to
apply for the University Admission (YES).
(f) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Logistic Management
- Three year course (Male and Female) :–
For those who have followed Commerce Stream
at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and passed three
(3) of the following subjects and be eligible to apply
for the University admission (YES) :
Accounting Geography
Business Studies Logic and Scientific Method
Economics Mathematics/
Business Statistics Combined Mathematics
General Information Communication and Media
Technology Studies
English (Subject No. 73)
(g) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Social Science - Three
year course (Male and Female) :–
For those who have passed three (3) subjects
including at least two (2) of the following subjects
at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination and be eligible to
apply for the University Admission (YES) :
Geography Economics
Business Studies Business Statistics
Mathematics Political Science
General Communication and Media
Information Studies
Technology Logic and S cientific Methods
History Sinhala/Tamil
English
(Subject No. 73)
3.5 Selected candidates are required to be followed a range
of common and special subjects pertaining to respective
Degree Programmes, including English, Management,
Law, International Studies and Military subjects.
3.6 They are also required to undergo continuous training
in Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and
Leadership during their Degree Programmes.
4. Eligibility Requirements.– Candidates should –
(a) be citizens of Sri Lanka ;
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age on 29.02.2012 ;
(c) become eligible to apply for University Admission and
have fulfilled the following requirements :
(i) Passed the common General Test ;
(ii) Have a minimum of a credit (C) pass for the subject
of English Language at the G . C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
126
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Height Male Female
Army : 5'6" 5'3"
Navy : 5'6"
Air Force : 5'6" 5'4"
Weight : 50Kgs.
Chest : 32" (unexpanded).
Note.– (If a candidate possesses outstanding achievements in
sports or other relevant fields, the above physical
standards may be relexed by the Secretary, Ministry of
Defence and Urban Development and Chairman of the
Board of Management, General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence University).
(e) Confirm to the Required Medical Standards.– Successful
candidates are required to pass a medical test to the
satisfaction of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence Urban
Development and Chairman of the Board of
Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University.
(f) Be unmarried (No Cadet Officer will be permitted to
marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so
by Service Regulations.)
5. Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be enlisted as
Officer Cadets of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence
University. They will be subjected to laws, regulations and orders
under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No.
68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment, selected candidates will have to
enter into a Bond and Agreement with the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as applicable,
after being graduated in the respective degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid, pay and allowance of
approximately Rs. 24,000 per month. In addition to that, the
following facilities are also available free of charge for Officer Cadets :
(i) Board and lodging ;
(ii) Medical facilities ;
(iii) Uniforms ;
(iv) Batmen facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka
Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be paid, the pay and allowances
appropriate to the rank in acoordance with the service pay codes :
(a) The salary scales assigned to Officers up to the rank of
Lieutenant Colonel/Commander/Wing Commander are
as follows :
2/Lt. - Rs. 211,800 per annum
Pilot Officer - Rs. 229,200 per annum
Actg. Sub Lt. - Rs. 189,240 per annum
Lieutenant - Rs. 275,220 - 30 x7,740 - Rs. 507,420 per
annum
Sub Lieutenant - Rs. 275,220 - 30 x 7,740 - Rs. 507,420
per annum
Flying officer - Rs. 275,220 - 30 x 7,740 - Rs. 507,420
per annum
Captain/Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 24 x 7,740 -
Rs. 507,420 per annum
Flt. Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 24 x 7,740 - Rs. 507,420
per annum
Major - Rs. 368,100 - 22 x7,740 - Rs. 538,380 per
annum
Lieutenant Commander - Rs. 352,620 - 20 x 7,740 -
Rs. 507,420 per annum
Sqn. Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 20 x 7,740 - Rs. 507,420 per
annum
Lt. Colonel - Rs. 390,540 - 17 x 9,480 - Rs. 551,700 per
annum
Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 15 x 9,480 - Rs. 504,300
per annum
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 15 x 9,480 -
Rs. 504,300 per annum.
(b)  The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) Qualification allowance ;
(ii) Ration allowance ;
(iii) Disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for
married officers only) ;
(iv) Uniform up keep allowance.
(c) The following facilities are available/allowances payable :
(i) Accommodation when ordered to live in ;
(ii) Rent allowance ;
(iii) Uniform allowance ;
(iv) Batmen allowance ;
(v) One return duty warrant a month from place of work
to home station to those who are ordered to “live
in”.
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the
following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of service :
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force Pay Code ;
(ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/Air
Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette ;
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity
Code published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to
undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice Chancellor,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and or respective
Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for
training to any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to live in, in
accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the
respective Service Establishments.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
127
13. Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be required
to comply with any rules and regulations already made or that may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity. – Candidates will be required to produce
proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master-General and driving
licenses issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted
for this purpose.
15. Applications.– Application form and the brochure can be
down loaded from the unviersity website www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. Duly completed applications should accompany a receipt
obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (One Thousand Rupees) to any
branch of Bank of Ceylon in favour of “The Vice Chancellor, General
Sir John Kotelawala Defence University” to be credited to current
Account Number “9405831” of Bank of Ceylon, Idama Branch -
Moratuwa. The applications without basic qualifications and not
duly filled in accordance with the conditions of the information will
be rejected. The application fee will not be refunded.
17. The duly completed applications should be forwarded to
the “Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University,
Ratmalana” under registered cover to reach him on or before 29th
February, 2012.
“Application for Cadetships” and the stream applied for should
be marked on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Applications
received after the closing date or do not conform to the requirements
of this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications should be send with certified copies of
certificates of Registration of Birth, certified copies of the G . C. E.
(O/L), G. C. E. (A/L) result sheets with a certification of qualified
for University Admission (yes).
19. Preliminary selection will be made from among those
candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance
with the evaluation criterion determined by the Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University. Candidates who are selected from
the first interview will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence Unviersity. The final selection will be made by
the Final Selection Committee apointed by the Board of
Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
20. Candidates who selected for interviews and tests will be
informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such
interviews. No traveling or other expenses will be paid for this
purpose to applicants.
21. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
22. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. No
correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to rejected
applications.
G
OTABAY A RAJAPAKSA RWP, RSP, psc
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence,
Urban Development and
Chairman of the Board of Management
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
For Office use
GENERAL SIR JOHN KOTELAWALA DEFENCE UNIVERSITY
APPLICATION FOR UNDERGRADUATE CADETSHIPS
NIC No. :
Interested Stream
MBBS Engineering ICT Mgt. and TS Law Logistics Mgt. Social  Sciences
(As per the qualifications, it can be marked three preferences by 1, 2 and 3 in the appropriate cage).
01. Name (In block letters) :
(a) Full name :
(b) Name with initials : Mr./Miss :

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
128
02. ( a) Permanent address :
(b) Tele. : Res. No. : Mobile No. :
03. Date of Birth :   Year        Month  Date 04.  Age : as at 29.02.2012 :   Years      Months  Days
05. Civil status :     Married    Single 06. Sex : Male Female
07. Sri Lanka citizenship : By Descent By Registration :
08. Educational qualifications :
(a) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination : ( b) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Name of the School :––––––––––. Name of the School :––––––––––.
Index No. :––––––––––. Index No. :––––––––––.
Year :––––––––––. Year :––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ................  ................ 1.  ................  ................
2.  ................  ................ 2.  ................  ................
3.  ................  ................ 3.  ................  ................
4.  ................  ................ 4. English  ................
5.  ................  ................ Common General Test Mark
6.  ................  ................
7.  ................  ................
8.  ................  ................ Are you qualified for university Admission :
9. ................  ................
Maximum Grade obtained for English Language at the Y es No
G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Index No. : Y ear : Z score :
09. Games represented : 10. Extra curricular activities :
**** (a) Cadetting
SL ZL NL INL (b)  Scouting
(a) Athletics ( c) Prefect
(b) Badminton ( d) School Captain
(c) Basketball ( e) House Captain
(d) Cricket ( f) Band
(e) Hockey ( g) Societies
(f) Rugby ( h) First Aid
(g) Soccer ( i)
(h) Swimming ( j)
(i) Table tennis
(j) Tennis
(k) V olleyball 11. Physical Requirements :
(l) Wrestling
(m) Karate
(
n) Judo
(o) Boxing
(p) Squash
(q)
(r)
* SL - School Level * ZL - Zonal Level
* NL - National Level * INL - International Level
Height Weight Eye Vision Chest
Ft. Inches Kg. Right Left If specs use Inches

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
129
12. Any other relevant facts :–––––––––––.
(Please attach a separate sheet if necessary)
13. Details of Guardians/Next of kin (NOK)
(a) Name :–––––––––––.
(b) Relationship :–––––––––––.
(c) Address :–––––––––––.
(d) Res. Telephone No. :–––––––––––. Mobile No. :–––––––––––.
14. Please pay Rs. 1,000 (Rupees Thousand) to any branch of Bank of Ceylon in favour of “Vice Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence University” to be credited to current Account No. “9405831” of Bank of Ceylon “Idama Branch” Moratuwa and submit
following details. (Original receipt should be attached hereto).
(i) Date of payment :–––––––––––.
(ii) Branch of Bank of Ceylon payment made :–––––––––––.
15. I declare in honour that the information given above are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that if a ny
information given in the application are found to be incorrect, prior to my selection. I am liable to be disqualified and if it is found after
the selection I am liable to be dismissed without any compensation.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
01–841
DEPARTMENTAL  EXAMINATION  FOR  PRELIMINARY  GRADE MEDICAL  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAL
SURGEONS – MARCH - 2012
IT is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination for Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons which should  be
passed by Preliminary Grade Medical Officers before promotion to Grade II in terms of Section 07 of the Minute of Medical Offic ers in
the Health Services, published in the Gazette (Extra Ordinary)  No. 662/11 of 17.05.1991 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka, and which should be passed by Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service will be held on 25.03.2012 in Sinhala, Tamil and
English medium. The venue and the time of the examination will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Preliminary Grade Medical Officers and Dental Surgeons who have not completed the relevant examination
can apply for this examination.
03. Applications.– Applications prepared by the candidates as per specimen appended to this letter should be sent under
registered cover to reach the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 05.03.2012 through their Heads of Institutions. The Head of Division should certify the accur acy
of contents in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9" x 4" inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 30.00 should
be sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address). Applications which are received l ate,
incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– The application should be prepared using an A4 paper based on the specimen form of the application so as to
recommended from 01 to 04(c) on the first front page and from 04(d) to 09 on the second page. Application which do not
conform to above will be rejected any information.
04. Examination fees :
(i) Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every subsequent
sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided for in the application and
cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
(ii) The fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any circumstances.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
130
05. Admission to the Examination:–
(i) Candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with Admission Cards. They should duly complete
and submit same to the Supervisor at the Examination Centre. Otherwise they will not be allowed to sit the examination.
(ii) Candidates should prove their identity to the Supervisor at the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents will be accepted :
(a)  National Identity Card ;
(b)  Departmental Identity Card ;
(c)  Driving License ;
(d)  Passport.
(iii) If you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination centre and the
index number through the web site ; If you were able to trace your examination centre and the index number as mentioned
above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre in the web site together with a letter attesting your
signature by your immediate superior officer and sit the examination by establishment of your identity. (Web site :
www.health.gov.lk) –
06. Scheme of the Examination.– The examination will consist of three written question papers and a Sinhala/Tamil Viva Voce
test. Each part will receive 100 Marks. Candidates should score a minimum of 50 marks for a pass in each part. The Examination can be
completed at one sitting or at several sittings.
07. Syllabus of the Examination :–
07.1 Written Examination :
07.1.1 Establishments Code :
Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions. Total marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Establishments Code :
(a) Part I - Chapters II, III, V , VI, VII, VIII, IX, XI, XII, XIII, XV, XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XXXI,
XXXII, XXXIII
(b) Part II - Chapters XLVII and XLVIII ;
(ii) General Regulations of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Orders of the Public Service Commission.
07.1.2 Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries :
Duration 1 1/2 hours. Total marks 100. Should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
Syllabus :
Health Manual :
    Part I - Medical Services
        Part II - Laboratory Services
07.1.3 Accounts :
Duration 02 hours. Should answers 04 questions out of 7 questions. Total Marks 100.
Syllabus :
(i) Financial Regulations :
Chapter I - All Sections
II - All Sections
III - All Sections
IV  - All Sections

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
131
Chapter V - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6
Chapter VI - All Sections
Chapter VII - Sections 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 ;
(ii) Regulations of Stores Accounts of the Department of Health Services ;
(iii) Sections of Finance in the Manual of the Department of Health Services ;
(iv) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health.
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil.– The Staff Officers in the Department of Health Services will conduct this Examination in
Colombo to examine the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil Language. Total Marks 100. Skills of Officers to discuss on matters
pertaining to their daily routine duties will be examined.
08. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized Campaign/
Institution. The information is also available in the Web Site - www.health.gov.lk
H. S. F
ERNANDO,
Deputy Director General (Admin.) 02
for Director General of Health Services.
My No. : CF/EXE/08/2011.
Ministry of Health,
“Suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
09th January, 2012.
Specimen Form of Application
For Office Use Only                
DEPARTMENTAL EXAMINATION FOR PRELIMINARY GRADE
MEDICAL OFFICERS AND DENTAL SURGEONS - MARCH 2012
01. (a) (i) Name of the Applicant (In Sinhala or Tamil with initials at the end) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name of the Applicant (In English Capitals with initials at the end) :
(iii) Names denoted by initials (In English Capitals) :
  (b) (i)  Designation (Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon) :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Date of Internship Appointment :–––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade :–––––––––––––.
02. Subjects offered (Mark ‘ 3’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. Mark “X” against the subjects not
offered) :
Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Establishments Code Accounts
Sinhala Viva Voce Tamil Viva Voce
03. Medium you sit for the examination (Sinhala/English/Tamil) :––––––––.
04. ( a) Present Station :–––––––––––.
(b) District of the Present Station :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
132
(c) Please mark “ 3” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centres. (If any or several
examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement or due to absence of a
sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to such centers would be re-attached to a
closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the Director General of Health Services).
Colombo Kandana Hambantota Ampara
Kaluthara Galle Badulla V avuniya
Kurunegala Anuradhapura Rathnapura
Kandy Batticaloa Jaffna
(d) Whether a self-addressed envelope in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 30.00 has been attached to the
application to post the Admission Card? :––––––––––.
(e) (i)  Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
(ii) Postal Address to post the Admission Card (in English Capitals) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a) Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
(b) If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
Stamp Cage
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
(i) I do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my knowledge and I nee d
not affix stamps since I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the value of Rs. ………… since I repeat
the Examination*, and the stamps affixed by me to the application are genuine and not used.
(ii) I agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the Department of Health for the conduct of this Examination and
if I was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of the Examination I agree with whatever decision taken for the
cancellation of my candidature.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of Head of Institution :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………is well known to me and in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in
his/her* personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the examination He/She* sits the Examination for the first time/repea ts the
Examination* he/she* need not affix stamps/has affixed stamps to the value of Rs.……… to the Application and he/she* placed his/ her*
signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Institution/Frank/Rubber Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
08. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialised Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the particulars
furnished by him/her* in the Application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* personal file and  he/she* is
eligible to sit for the Examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
Specialised Campaign (Frank/Rubber Stamp).
Date :–––––––––––– .
01–678

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
133
MINISTRY  OF  MINOR  EXPORT  CROPS  PROMOTION
Department of Export Agriculture
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF RESEARCH
ASSISTANT OF CLASS II SEGMENT 'B' OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF
EXPORT AGRICULTURE – 2012
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to
fill the vacancies of above mentioned post of Sri Lanka Technological
Service in the Department of Export Agriculture.
02. The candidates should not be less than 18 years or more
than 45 years of age. The upper age limit will not apply to those
who are already in Government or Provincial Government Service.
Issuing of admissions to sit for the examination will not be considered
as an acceptance that the candidate is qualified for the post. The
candidateship will be cancelled if it will be revealed that he/she
lacks necessary qualifications when the candidates are called for an
interview to check the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette
notification.
03. The monthly salary scale for this post according to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006(iv) [MN-3] is Rs. 15,005-
4x180- 6x240 - 11x320-20x360- Rs. 27,885.
04. This post is permanent and pensionable. Should contribute
to the Widow/Widower and Orphans' Pension Fund.
05. It is essential that candidates should have fullfilled the basic
educational qualifications and professional qualifications mentioned
below, by the last date of closing applications :–
Educational qualifications :
G . C. E. (O/L) :
Should have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects
with Credits for Sinhala/Tamil or Literature, Mathematics,
Science and any other subject at not more than two attempts ;
G . C. E. (A/L) :
Should have passed the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination at one attempt
in three Science subjects including two subjects from Biology/
Zoology, Botany, Agriculture, Chemistry and Physics.
Professional Qualifications.– Should have obtained a two years
Diploma in Agriculture conducted by an institute accepted by the
Government.
06. Mode of Applying :
(a) Application forms should be prepared using both sides
of an A4 size (21cm x 29cm) sheet including Sections 01
to 05 in the First page with accordance to the specimen
application form appended to this Gazette notification.
(b) The name of the examination mentioned in the heading of
the application form should be included in English in
addition to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in addition
to Tamil in Tamil applications.
(c) Duly filled application forms should be forwarded under
Registered Cover to meet Commissioner General of
Examinations, Organization and Foreign Examinations
Branch, Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 29.02.2012.
(d) The post applied for should be clearly written on the
upper left-hand corner of the envelope containing the
application form.
(e) The receipt obtained by paying Rs. 300 to be credited to
the income Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General
of Examinations at any District or Divisional Secretariat
of the Island should be affixed in the relevant space
provided in the application form. Keeping a photocopy
of the receipt will be useful.
(f) Applications that are incomplete and received late will
be rejected without prior notice and the Department will
not be responsible for loss of applications in the post or
any postal delays.
(g) The signature of the applicant should be attested by a
Principal of a government school or a Justice of Piece or
an Attorney-at-Law or a Staff Grade officer in State
Service.
(h) The candidates who are already in State Service should
forward the application form through the Head of the
Department.
07. Examination Procedure :
(a) Admissions will be issued by the Commissioner General
of Examinations to the candidates who have sent
application forms. The candidate should produce the
attested admission to the Supervisor in the prescribed
examination hall. Any candidate who fails to produce the
admission card will not be allowed to sit for the
examination.
(b) This examination will be held around March, 2012. The
candidates who do not receive the admission before 07
days to the date of examination should inquire without
delay informing on the following details to the
organization and examination branch of the Department
of Examinations at Pelawatte, Battaramulla :
(i) Name of the Exam ;
(ii) Full name of the Candidate ;
(iii) Address ;
(iv) Date, Post Office and the Postal C ode of the Post
Office where the application was posted ;
(v) Number and date of the receipt and the Divisional
Secretariat to which the money was paid.
(c) Transportation expense or any other expenses incurred
by the candidate in order to be present at the examination
will not be reimbursed.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
134
(d) Identity.– The candidate should prove his/her identity to
the satisfactory of the Supervisor on each subject he/she
sits for. Herein,
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons ; or
(ii) Valid Passport
will be accepted.
The candidates who fail to produce documentation to prove
his/her identity will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
(e) Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence Test (Subject No. 01) (Time : 1 hour. Total
marks : 100). Consists of questions to determine the
candidate’s ability of logical reasoning, analytical
thinking and decision making.
(ii) Question paper on Technology (Research Assistant)
(Subject No. 02) - (Time 02 hours. Total marks 100.)
Syllabus of the question paper on Technology :
Technology :
(a) Principles of agriculture :
1. Climate zones of Sri Lanka and their effect in Crop
Production.
2. Types of soil, soil conservation, plant nutrition and water
conservation.
3. Identifying pests and pest control.
4. Plant propagation, Nursery management and tissue
culture.
5. Agriculture and environment.
6. Home gardening, field crop cultivation, mixed crop
cultivation and agro-forestry.
7. Post harvest technology.
8. Interpretation, propagation, field establishment,
maintenance, disease and pest control and harvest
processing of export agricultural crops.
9. Farm management and planning  :
(a) The contribution of each of the Governmental and
private institutions related to Agriculture Development
of Sri Lanka.
(b) Identifying Lab equipments :
Uses and basic theories
(1) Identifying, utilizing and cleaning glass lab
equipments.
(2) Safe handling and storage of chemicals.
(f) This examination will be held in Sinhala, English and Tamil
mediums and the candidates sitting for the exam should
appear for all the subjects of the examination in one medium.
(g) Examination to recruit for this post will be held only in
Colombo.
08. Conditions of employment :
(i) Selected candidates are obligated to work in any area of
the country.
(ii) Currently vacant districts and offices are mentioned
below :–
(i) Gampaha District : Sub-research Station, Walpita ;
(ii) Matara District - Cinnamon Research Centre,
Palolpitiya ;
(iii) Matale District -Central Research Centre, Matale.
09. Mode of recruitment. – The candidates who obtain 40% or
more marks in each paper at the examination will be called for an
interview based on the order of merit. Number of candidates to be
called for the interview will be twice as the existing vacancies.
Marks will not be given at the interview and the candidates who
have fulfilled the basic requirements will be recruited in the order of
the total marks obtained at the examination.
10. Any matter not mentioned here will be decided by the
appointing authority. Every candidate is obliged to follow the
Examination Rules and Regulations mentioned in the Gazette
notification.
11. The Commissioner General of Examinations will permit all
the candidates who have paid the relevant examination fee and
forwarded the applications on or before the closing date to sit for
the competitive examination on the presumption that only those
who have fulfilled the qualifications mentioned in the gazette
notification have applied.
W. D. L. G
UNARA THNE,
Director of Export Agriculture.
(For office use only)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
APPLICATION FOR THE COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
POST OF RESEARCH ASSISTANT OF CLASS II SEGMENT “ B” OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF EXPORT AGRICULTURE
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4    (Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. Name :–––––––––––.
1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) ex. : SILVA, A. B.
1.2 Full name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.1 Postal address :–––––––––––.
(Admission will be sent to this address)
(In English capital letters)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'01'27
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 27.01.2012
135
2.2 Telephone number (if available) :
03. Gender :
Female - 1 Male - 0
(write the relevant number in the cage)
04. Civil status :
Married - 2 Single - 1
(write the relevant number in the cage)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06.  6.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
6.2 Age as at the last date of closing applications :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Educational qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :-
First Attempt Second Attempt
Name of the Exam ...................... .........................
Year and Month ...................... .........................
Index No. ...................... .........................
Medium ...................... .........................
First Attempt Second Attempt
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 1.
2. 2.
3. 3.
4. 4.
5. 5.
6. 6.
7. 7.
8. 8.
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year and Month .................. ...................
Index No. ................. ...................
Medium .................. ..................
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(c) Professional Qualifications :-
Diploma and the Year Index No. Subjects Grade
Name of Institute
08. (a) Number of the receipt
Date
Divisional Secretariat
Amount paid
Stick the receipt of examination fee here.
(Keeping a copy of the receipt would be useful)
09. Certification of the applicant :
I do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this
application is true and correct. I am aware that if any information
furnished by me in this appilcation is found to be false or incorrect
before I am selected, I am liable for disqualification and for dismissal
without any compensation if the inaccuracy is defected after the
appointment.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
10. Attestation :
I certify Mr./Mrs./Ms............ is personally known to me and
he/she placed his/her signature in front of me on.............. and
he/she has paid the examination fee due, and affixed the receipt.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Date :–––––––––.
Full Name of the attestor :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(Verify by official seal)
Commissioner General of Examinations,
I certify that the above applicant has/has not fulfilled the
requirements to sit for the Examination.
––––––––––––,
(Signature and Title of the
Head of the Department).
Date :–––––––––.
01-679
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.