

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
BIRTHS AND DEATHS REGISTRATION
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 25 OF 2013
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 08th May, 2013]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 4.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 10, 2013

<!-- page 2 -->

1Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)
Act, No. 25 of 2013
2—PL007081—4,090 (03/2013)
[Certified on 08th May, 2013]
L.D.—O. 17/2013
AN ACT TO AMEND THE BIRTHS AND DEATHS REGISTRATION ACT
(CHAPTER 110)
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Births and Deaths
Registration (Amendment) Act, No 25 of  2013 and shall be
deemed to have come into operation on January 1, 2013.
2. Section 24 of the Births and Deaths Registration Act,
(Chapter 110) (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (2) of that
section, by the substitution for all the words from “every
such declaration shall” to the words “the stamps shall be
supplied by the declarant.” of the words “every such
declaration shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees fifty or
such other amount as may be prescribed by the Minister,
which shall be paid by the declarant.”.
3. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
in paragraph (b) from the words “and bearing a stamp,” to the
words “two years have so elapsed.” of the words “together
with a fee of rupees fifty or such other amount as may be
prescribed by the Minister, which shall be paid by the
applicant.”.
4. Section 27
A of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “shall bear a stamp of the value of five rupees
supplied” of the words “ together with a fee of rupees fifty to
be paid”.
Short title and
date of
operation.
Amendment of
section 24 of the
Births and Deaths
Registration Act
(Chapter 110)
Amendment of
section 27 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 27
A of
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)
Act, No. 25 of 2013
Amendment of
section 28 of the
principal
enactment.
5. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following:—
“(2) Every application made under subsection (1) shall
be accompanied by a fee of rupees five or such other
amount as may be prescribed by the Minister, which
shall be paid by the applicant.”.
6. Section 36 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) by the substitution for all the
words from “Every such declaration shall” to the words “The
stamp shall be supplied by the declarant.” of the words
“ Every such declaration shall be accompanied by a fee of
rupees fifty or such other amount as may be prescribed by the
Minister which shall be paid by the declarant.”.
7. Section 52 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution
in paragraph ( c) of that subsection, for the words “bear a
stamp of the value of one rupee”, of the words “be
accompanied by a fee of rupees fifty or such other amount as
may be prescribed by the Minister,”.
8. Section 61 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended:—
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for all the words from “and the amount of the stamp
duty in respect of” to the words “ or shall be paid to
the” of the words “ and the amount of fees in respect
of such declaration payable under this Act,  shall be
transmitted to the Registrar-General or appropriate
District Registrar, who shall pay to the”;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “a stamp of the proper value.” of the
words “ a receipt of payment of the proper value.”.
Amendment of
section 36 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 52 of the
principal
enactment.
Amendment of
section 61 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)
Act, No. 25 of 2013
Validation.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
9. Any  fees charged or collected by or on behalf of the
Registrar- General or any person authorised under this Act,
for any purpose authorized by this Act to charge or collect,
during the period commencing on January 1, 2013 and ending
on the date on which the certificate of the speaker is endorsed
in respect of this Act, shall be deemed to have been validly
charged or collected by the Registrar- General or by any such
person authorised under this Act:
Provided that the aforesaid provisions shall not affect any
decision or Order made by any Court or any proceedings
pending in any Court in respect of any fee charged or collected
during the aforesaid period.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)
Act, No. 25 of 2013
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .