

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.03.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2165$70 - 2020 ud¾;= ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'03'06
No. 2165/70  -  FRIDAY,  MARCH  06,  2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A-  PG 4940 — 267 (03/2020)
DIRECTIONS TO PREVENT THE MISUSE OF MOV ABLE OR IMMOVABLE PROPERTIES
BELONGING TO THE STATE, STATE CORPORATIONS OR STATUTORY BOARDS DURING
THE PERIOD OF AN ELECTION FOR THE PROMOTION OF OR IN PREJUDICE TO ANY
PARTY, GROUP OR CANDIDATE OR OBSTRUCTING THE CONDUCT OF THE ELECTION
THE Election Commission does hereby issue the following directions under Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution for the
purpose of preventing the use of any movable or immovable property belonging to the State, any State Corporation or
Statutory boards for the purpose of promoting or demoting the election of any candidate of any political party or  independent
group or using such properties in a manner that would obstruct the conduct of the election.
MAHINDA DESHAPRIY A N. J. ABEYESEKERE S. RA TNAJEEVAN H. HOOLE
Chairman Member Member
Election  Commission Election  Commission Election  Commission
Election Commission,
Sarana Mawatha,
Rajagiriya,
On this 06th day of March 2020.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.03.2020
2A
In terms of Article 104B(04)(a) of the Constitution “The Election Commission shall have the power during the
period of the election to prohibit the use of any movable or immovable property belonging to the State or any State
Corporation” for the purpose of promoting or preventing the election of   any candidate of any political party or independent
group contesting the election. Under subparagraph (b) of that Article it shall be the duty of every person or officer in
whose custody or under whose control such property is for the time being, to comply with, and give effect to such
directions issued by the Election Commission. All Public Officers including all Secretaries to Ministries, Chief Secretaries
of Provinces should comply with these directions. Also the Heads of institutions should ensure that all officers coming
under their control do comply with these directions. These directions are applicable to all public institutions such as
Ministries, Departments, Commissions, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards,
State Banks, State Universities and Companies taken over by the Government.
02. Officials
(i) The skills and knowledge of all public officers and their time are considered the property of the State. Even a
public officer with political rights shall not engage in political promotions inside or outside the office premises
within the prescribed office hours or after reporting to work or while on duty leave. Officers without political
rights should not engage in political activities even after availing leave.
(ii) No officer or employee is entitled to use State properties viz. vehicles, communication equipment, printers,
telephone facilities, photocopy machines, media equipment, circuit bungalows and another public employee or
anything else belonging to the State for political activities and doing so is an offence.
(iii) Officers should refrain from making any recruitment, appointments and promotions and transfers of whatever
nature in public institutions during this period without the approval of the Election Commission. Recruitments
and transfers which are formally executed under the powers vested in the Commissions appointed by the
Constitutional Council are exempted from this. However, when the Secretary to the relevant Ministry or the Head
of the relevant Department opines that there is a need to implement without postponing an island-wide program
or an internal arrangement for the recruitment / promotion of officers that has been commenced before the
election is announced and when the relevant authorities can ascertain that any other island-wide recruitment /
promotion in the public service or in the State institutions is made properly devoid of political interference, the
concurrence of the Election Commission may be granted. In such cases, a request in that regard should be made
to the Election Commission and the prior written approval of the Commission obtained.
(iv) When recruitment is made in Public Service at divisional or provincial levels for the purpose of avoiding
interruptions to sanitary, janitorial or maintenance services and of maintaining essential services, such recruitments
should be made with the concurrence of the Election Commission and it is the responsibility of relevant authorities
to carry out such recruitments in a transparent manner and free of political intervention.
(v) General transfers of all public officers including teachers and principals of Government schools who would be
deployed for election duties in the areas where election is to be held should be suspended for the period starting
from the day on which the nominations are received and ending two weeks after the date of poll. Transfers of
public officers or officers of State Corporations/ Statutory Boards who would not to be engaged in election
duties should not be carried out on political grounds during the period of election and it is the responsibility of
all relevant authorities to give effect to transfers without leaving room for complaints of political intervention.
This is not applicable to transfers done on disciplinary orders and if any transfer is required to be made on
exigency of service or under special circumstances, such requirement should be brought to the notice of the
Election Commission and approval obtained.
(vi) It shall be an offence for any public officer without political rights to engage in making any propaganda or
statement using his/her private social media account or any other account to promote or demote any political
party or candidate. Even public officers with political rights should not engage in such propagation using State
resources and publication or causing the publication of hate speech, rumors and false information on their
personal social media accounts shall be an offence.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.03.2020
3A
(vii) When the Election Commission determines that it is necessary to further investigate into information or complaints
received by the Commission citing that one or more orders issued by the Election Commission to prevent the
misuse of State properties in connection with the election is/are violated, the officials under whose charge the
necessary documents, both print and electronic, minutes, registers, and reports on recruitment or appointments
lie should pursue action to produce them to the Election Commission or to any other official authorized for the
purpose by the Election Commission when demanded by the Election Commission to do so. Public officers
concerned shall be and are bound to make detailed statements when required to make an oral or written statement
by the Election Commission or any other official authorized for the purpose by the Election Commission for the
purpose of a further investigation carried out into any violation of orders or any one of them issued by the
Election Commission.
(viii) Every public officer shall be and is bound to pursue action to be present at the Election Commission in person to
make every necessary explanation and produce all necessary documents when summoned by the Election
Commission to inquire into any violation of orders or any one of them issued by the Election Commission
regarding the misuse of State properties.
(ix) When public officers mark their postal ballots, it shall be an offence for them to take / display / cause to display,
photographs of the ballot paper or the polling station.
03. Functions, Mobile Services and Trade Fairs
(i) Functions :
Functions such as laying foundation stones, opening ceremonies and vesting in the public utilizing Government
funds and State properties should not be organized or conducted during the period of an election since the politicians who
attend these functions may express opinions and views on the election and conduct of these function ceremonially may lead
to the promotion or cause prejudice to any party, group or candidate.
In the case of functions scheduled before the publication of the poll notice and which cannot be cancelled or
postponed, the Election Commission should be informed for instructions of the Commission to proceed ahead.
In the event of conducting such function as involves spending Government funds, and if a promotion of or
prejudice to any party/group or candidate has taken place at such function, the officials who organized such a function
should be held responsible for the same. The officers who organize functions/events should bring to the notice of the
Returning Officers of the respective districts of such events scheduled to be held during the period of an election well in
advance enabling them to make arrangements to observe such events and keep records.lt is strictly prohibited to make any
statement or to do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners/posters/leaflets/notices promoting parties/groups or candidates
at any function conducted spending State funds during the period of an election and the officers or authorities of State
institutions who organize or fund such functions should prevent such promotions taking place.
(ii) Mobile Services and Trade Fairs :
Since there is a tendency to use mobile services and trade fairs conducted during an election period utilizing public
funds and State property to facilitate the public for the promotion of or causing prejudice to parties/groups or
candidates,organizing or conducting of such trade exhibitions or carnivals should be avoided during the period of an
election. It should be brought to the notice of the Election Commission any such trade exhibitions or carnivals which have
been scheduled prior to the publication of the Notice of Poll to be held during the period of election and impossible to be
cancelled or postponed. Such notice is required to seek the instructions of the Commission. In the event of conducting such
trade exhibitions or carnivals using Government funds with the promotion of or prejudice caused to any party/group or
candidate taking place at such trade exhibitions or carnivals, the officials who organized such events should be held
responsible for same.The officers who organize mobile services and trade exhibitions should also take action to bring to the
notice of the Returning Officers of respective districts where such events are to be held during the period of an election well
in advance enabling them to make arrangements to observe those and keep records.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.03.2020
4A
It is strictly prohibited to make any statement or do any act, display or distribute flags/ banners /posters /leaflets /
notices promoting parties /groups or candidates at mobile services and trade exhibitions conducted spending State funds
during the period of an election and the official or State institutions that organize or fund such events should prevent such
promotions or causing prejudice to any candidate or party or group.
04. Implementation of programmes to provide common amenities and aids and Special Projects
(i) Long term or medium term special programmes may be implemented for the provision of facilities to the public or
for the development of the country or continuous programmes to provide citizens with common amenities and
cannot be suspended due to an election. Action should be taken to ensure that no promotion of or causing of
prejudice to any party/group or candidate is taking place through such special projects or continuous programmes
after the issue of the Notice of Poll.
(ii) The Election Commission will monitor whether any promotion of parties/groups or candidates is taking place
through the aforesaid special projects or continuous programmes conducted during the period of election.
(iii) During the period of an election the launch of programmes to distribute State lands to conduct land kachcheris to
award title deeds for State lands, deeds to transfer ownership of houses and reliefs to residents in election areas,
providing subsides, fertilizer, agro equipment for the plantation industry,and providing sports goods, kitchen and
household items, equipment for self employment, bicycles, solar power lamps, building material for house
constructions, release of housing loans/ compensations etc. should be suspended.However, if it is apparent that
suspension of the programmes will impede the meeting of needs of the general public, the Election Commission
should be consulted for necessary instructions. In the event the programmes are already initiated or for which
approval has already been obtained to be proceeded with, it should be the responsibility of the officers who are
charged with such programmes to implement them with the participation of only the relevant officials without
leaving any room for the promotion of parties/groups or candidates.
05. Vehicles
(i) All officers in whose custody the pool of vehicles belonging to the State including motor cars, jeeps, cabs and
buses, should take extra care in maintaining the vehicle pools and assigning such vehicles during the period of an
election so as to prevent such vehicles from being used for the promotion of election propaganda campaigns of
any political party, independent group or candidate. It should be noted that assigned vehicles belonging to the
State and vehicles rented to be used for specific duties are included in the said category. During the period of
election running charts should be properly maintained particularly in respect of pool vehicles and vehicles other
than assigned vehicles and the running charts should be scrutinized by a staff officer on a daily basis to make sure
that such vehicles are not used for any political propaganda purpose. Action should be taken to ensure that State
vehicles are not used for the promotion of or causing prejudice to any political party on the pretext that they are
used for official purposes with fake entries to that effect in the running charts.
(ii) No vehicle other than those two vehicles assigned for the purpose of providing security to H.E. the President can
be operated without the exclusive registration number issued by the Department of Motor Traffic and as such no
Minister or any member of his/her staff or other person can use State vehicles or vehicles belonging to public
institutions without the relevant registration number. Therefore, Secretaries of Ministries / Heads of Departments
and officers in whose custody the pool of vehicles belong to the State should ensure that no vehicle belonging to
State Department or State institution is operated with garage numbers (fake numbers).
(iii) All Secretaries of Ministries / Heads of Departments should ensure that public funds are not utilized for the use of
airplanes or helicopters or other vehicles for political propaganda activities.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.03.2020
5A
06. State offices, buildings, schools, other buildings belonging to the State and Circuit bungalows
(i) Government office buildings, schools, other buildings and circuit bungalows belonging to the State too are State
property. Therefore, such buildings should not be used to conduct political meetings, discussions, etc.. It should
not be construed that these directions prevent the buildings and halls which can usually be reserved on payment
of specified fees by any political party/ group, candidate, from being so reserved during the period of an election
on payment of relevant fees without causing any discrimination towards any Party/ Group / Candidate. It is strictly
prohibited to provide State owned circuit bungalows, rest houses, holiday resorts free of charge to persons
engaged in election propaganda activities. It is strictly prohibited to reserve any State owned circuit bungalows,
rest houses, holiday resorts free of charge to persons engaged in political propaganda activities. Circuit bungalows,
rest houses, and holiday resorts belonging to the State or State institutions and situated in respective areas
should not be reserved on a full time basis during the period of election to any politician, officer or any other
person. Also, no person who avails accommodation at the said circuit bungalows should be allowed to engage in
promoting any party, group or candidate. Any election propaganda posters, banners, cutouts, bill boards etc., are
not to allow to be displayed on State owned buildings or within their premises or store therein.
(ii) When play grounds or bare lands and halls or such other buildings belonging to the State, Provincial Councils and
Local Authorities are reserved for the purpose of holding election propaganda rallies to promote a Political Party/
Independent group or candidate, such reservation should be done in such a transparent manner that no special
favor, priority or discrimination is meted out to any party, independent group or candidate. Also such venues
should not be reserved for the use of any party / group/ candidate or for any other purpose for a prolonged period
of time so that such venues are made not available for the use by other parties.
07. General
(i) State property, State institutions, vehicles, equipment, buildings, lands and public officers in particular, should not
be allowed to be used for the promotion or demotion of parties, groups or candidates in relation to the election. No
officer should allow any misdeeds such as attaching public officers of State institutions and vehicles belonging to
the State or State institutions or rented vehicles stationed outside the electoral area to offices or institutions
situated within the electoral area on the pretext that such attachments are done to carry out urgent duties or special
development project work in electoral areas but used to promote (or to prejudice) parties, groups or candidates to
take place. Officers, vehicles, equipment, belonging to Media Units of any State institution including Provincial
Councils,Local Authorities, State Corporations, Boards, State Banks, other Statutory institutions, and State
Universities should not be used for the promotion of any party, group or candidate. If entertainment equipment
such as podiums, stages, decorations and vehicles, airplanes and helicopters belonging to State institutions are
usually hired under normal circumstances, such hiring during the period of an election should be done in a
transparent manner offering equal opportunities for all parties/ groups to hire such items.
(ii) Promotion of or causing prejudice to any party/group or candidate should not be done by way of broadcasting /
telecasting / publishing through television, radio and press advertisement or by displaying billboards at public
places spending public funds to give publicity to development programmes of the Government or to anniversaries
/ commemorations.
(iii) All private cable television channels, private electronic and print media institutions, websites, mobile and fixed
telephone service providers should, act in such manner during the period of an election so as to not cause any
breach of election laws and in compliance with the media guidelines, directions and instruction circulars issued by
the Election Commission and it shall be the responsibility of the Secretary to the Ministry of Mass Media and the
Chairman/Director General of the Telecommunication Regulatory Commission who are responsible for regulating
of such institutions to ensure strict compliance thereto by the institutions aforesaid.
(iv) It shall be the responsibility of the Heads of State institutions/ provincial or Local Authorities and Mayors/
Chairmen/Urban Commissioners/Secretaries and heads of each Divisions under whose custody or control street
lamp posts and telephone poles, public roads and pavements etc. fall, to prevent such properties situated within

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'03'06
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE  DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 06.03.2020
6A
their respective areas of authority from being used for display of banners, posters, flags, billboards and other
decorations and for advertising by way of painting or digital panels, with the intention of promoting or demoting
parties / groups / candidates.
(v) The Heads of Ministries, Departments or State Institutions should take action to remove photographs, advertising
boards, flags, billboards and decorations which have been erected before the commencement of the election
period and are being displayed at public places for the promotion or demotion of parties / groups / candidates. The
Heads of Local Bodies and the Commissioners and Secretaries of such Bodies should take action to remove
advertising boards, flags, billboards and decorations erected at public places within their area of authority.
(vi) The directions preventing the use of State properties for the promotion or demotion of election of any candidate
at this election should be strictly adhered to without any favour. The Secretaries to Ministries should pursue
action to give instructions in this regard to the Heads of Departments, State Corporations and other institutions
coming under the purview of the respective Ministry.Also, the Secretaries of Ministries and Heads of institutions
should ensure that all officers of their respective institutions comply with these directions and instructions.
(vii) Public officers should essentially draw their attention to Article 104b (02) of the Constitution which reads as “It
shall be the duty of the Commission to secure the enforcement of all laws relating to the holding of the election and
it shall be the duty of all authorities of the State charged with the enforcement of such laws, to cooperate with the
Commission to secure such enforcement”.
(viii) Please note that the responsibility of bringing the contents of these directions to the notice of respective Ministers,
State Ministers, Deputy Ministers and the staff of the Ministers lies with the Secretary to the respective Ministries
while the responsibility of bringing such matters to the notice of Governors, Chief Ministers and other Ministers
of the Provinces lies with the Chief Secretary and the Secretaries of the respective Provincial Ministries.
(ix) The Secretaries to Commissions should pursue action to bring these directions to the notice of the Chairpersons
and Members of such Commissions, as applicable.
(x) In addition to the provisions of the Constitution, it is the duty of the Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting
Officer of Ministries/ Departments/ institutions to prevent or to take action to prevent the misuse of State properties.
(xi) Non-compliance with these directions is a punishable offence under Article 104(22) of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
The term “State” wherever it appears in these directions means all State institutions including State Ministries,
Departments, Provincial Councils, Local Authorities, State Corporations, Statutory Boards, Commissions, State Banks, State
Universities, Nationalized Companies and institutions of which more than 50% of shares is held by the State or State owned
Companies.
The term “public officers and employees” wherever it appears in these directions means all persons who engage and
are employed in the institutions aforesaid and receive a salary or allowance.
The directions published in the Gazette Extraordinary  No. 2141/52, dated 19.09.2019 and the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 2143/47, dated 03.10.2019 are hereby rescinded.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.