

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2316$13 - 2023 ckjdß ui 24 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2023'01'24
No. 2316/13  -  tuesday,   jaNuary  24,  2023
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- G38639 - 07 (01/2023) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
vALuE  ADDED  TAX  ACT, No. 14  Of  2002
By virtue of the powers vested in me under subsection (8) of section 25C of the Value added tax act, No. 14 of 2002 
as last amended by the Value added tax (amendment) act, No. 13 of 2022, I, don ranjith sisirakumara Hapuarachchi, 
Commissioner General of Inland revenue, do by this order specify matters relating to and the manner in which tax is 
calculated in respect of Value added tax on supply of Financial services (hereinafter referred as Vat on supply of Financial 
services) as set out in the schedule hereto.
these regulations operate effective from October 01, 2022 and rescind the regulations published in the Gazette 
Extraordinary No. 1868/10 of june 23, 2014, effective from the same date.
 Don Ranjith SiSiRakumaRa 
 hapuaRachchi,
 Commissioner General of Inland 
 revenue.
Colombo,
23rd january, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.01.2023
2a
sCHedule 
 (1.) Calculation of the total Value addition for the purpose of Value added tax on supply of Financial services.
	 (a)	 In	 terms	of	Section	25C	(1)	of	the	Value	Added	Tax	Act,	No.	14	of	2002	(VAT	Act),	every	registered	specified	
institution or any person shall be liable to tax for each taxable period on its total value addition which includes 
net	profits	or	loss	as	the	case	may	be	before	payment	of	income	tax	on	such	profit	computed	in	accordance	
with the accepted accounting standards (Prevailing for that taxable period), subject to adjustments for economic 
depreciation [Calculated as provided under following paragraph (b)], and the emoluments payable to all the 
employees	and	adjustments	for	VAT	on	supply	of	financial	services	payable	as	per	Chapter	IIIA	of	the	VAT	Act	
and	Social	Security	Contribution	Levy	(SSCL)	on	supply	of	financial	services	payable	as	per	sub	item	(a)	of	item	
3 of second schedule to the social security Contribution levy act, No. 25 of 2022 (ssCl act).
	 	 [With	 effect	from	01.01.2012,	any	specified	institution	or	any	person	who	is	required	to	adopt	Sri	Lanka	Financial	
Reporting	Standards	(SLFRS)	for	the	preparation	of	financial	statements	shall	take	into	account	the	operating	
profit	prepared	as	per	SLFRS	for	the	above	purpose].
 (b) economic depreciation 
 (i) rates
  the rates of economic depreciation determined by the Minister and published in the Gazette Notification No.  
1606/30 of 19.06.2009 are as follows;
Asset Rate (Per annum)
Data	Processing	equipment	and	accessories	
including Computer software
25%
Motor Vehicles 20%
Other	Machinery,	Plant,	Equipment,	Furniture	or	
Fixture
12 1/2%
Intangible assets (other than Goodwill) 10%
Buildings 6 2/3%
 (ii) statement of economic depreciation should be prepared for the whole year. these depreciation rates shall be 
applied	on	the	basis	of	the	cost	and	straight	line	method	(equal	installment	method).	Restrictions	imposed	by	
the Inland revenue act on allowances for depreciation shall not be applied.
	 	 After	 the	adoption	of	the	SLFRS,	the	classification	of	assets	shall	be	on	the	basis	of	SLFRS.	However,	in	
relation	to	any	asset	acquired	prior	to	the	adoption	of	SLFRS,	the	classification	followed	earlier	shall	be	
continued in calculating economic depreciation.
 (iii) No deduction is available as economic depreciation in relation to any asset of any person registered under 
the Finance leasing act, No. 56 of 2000 or Finance Business act, No. 42 of 2011, being an asset which is 
leased under the provision of the aforesaid acts.
 (c) “emoluments payable” means gross remuneration payable to all the employees. 
	 	 “Gross	 remuneration”	means	the	aggregate	of	both	benefits	in	money	and	benefits	not	in	money	payable	to	
the	employees	and	it	includes	any	payment,	contribution	or	provision	in	relating	to	terminal	benefits	which	is	
charged	to	the	income	statement	in	arriving	at	the	operating	profit.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.01.2023
3a
(d) t otal Value addition
	 	 Net	Profit	or	Loss	(before	income	tax	expenses)	 XXX
 Add :	 VAT	and	SSCL	on	supply	of	financial	services	charged	to
	 	 the	Income	Statement	 XX
	 	 Depreciation	Charged	to	the	Income	Statement	 XX
  emoluments Payable XX	 XXX
	 	 		 	 XXX
 Less :	 Economic	Depreciation	 	 (XX)
	 Total	value	addition	prior	to	tax	 	 XXX
 Less :	VAT	payable	as	per	Chapter	III	A	of	the	VAT	Act		 	 (XX)
  ssCl  payable as per sub item (a) of item 3 of 
  second schedule to the ssCl  act  (XX)
	 Total	 Value	Addition	 	 XXX	
	 [VAT 	on	Financial	Services	payable	at	the	rate	specified	in	Section	25C	of	the	VAT	Act	(VAT	on	supply	of	financial	
services)	and	SSCL	on	financial	Services	payable	at	the	rate	specified	in	Section	3	of	the	SSCL	Act	(SSCL	on	Supply	
of	financial	services)]
(2.) Calculation of Vat on supply of Financial services
	 (a)	 If	 any	registered	person	prepares	and	maintains	separate	accounts	for	supply	of	financial	services	and,	financial	
services provided out of sri lanka or activities mentioned under section 25C (5), (hereinafter refers to as non-
financial	services),	and	such	accounts	are	certified	by	an	approved	accountant	under	Section	120	of	the	Inland	
revenue act, No. 24 of 2017, then the value addition of such activities shall be calculated separately.
 (b) If any registered person who is liable to pay Vat on supply of Financial sevices under Chapter III a of the Vat 
Act,	does	not	keep	separate	accounts	for	non-financial	services,	such	person	is	required	to	calculate	the	value	
addition	on	the	proportionate	basis.	For	such	purpose,	the	value	addition	attributable	to	the	non-financial	services	
is to be taken as the sum which bears to the total value addition, as the same proportion of the turnover of the 
nonfinancial	services	for	the	month	bears	to	the	total	turnover	of	the	same	month,	if	there	is	no	material	difference	
in	the	recognition	of	receipts	for	the	calculation	of	the	profits	and	for	the	purpose	of	calculation	of	the	turnover.
	 	 The	computation	of	 Value	Addition	attributable	to	supply	of	financial	services	shall	be	as	follows;
 Value addition attributable to t otal Value     turnover for Non-Financial services
	 the	financial	services	 Addition	 	 	 	 Total	 Turnover	as	per	Income	Statement
  (total Value addition means value addition computed as per item 01 (d) of this schedule.)
(3.) documents to be furnished with annual return
  Following documents shall be submitted with adjustment referred to the section 25C (1) of the Vat act for the purpose 
of	fulfillment	of	the	submission	of	the	return	referred	to	the	Section	25B.
 (a) audited statement of accounts for the relevant period.
 (b)	 Detailed	profit	and	loss	account	for	the	relevant	period.
 (c) a  schedule in respect of emoluments payable.
 (d) a  schedule in respect of economic depreciation.
 (e) Breakup of the value of supply declared in the Value added tax return furnished for the relevant periods as per 
section 21 of the Vat act.
 (f) reconciliation of turnover with the Financial statement in the following format.
= x- total Value addition{ }

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'01'24
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 24.01.2023
4a
pRintED at thE DEpaRtmEnt oF GoVERnmEnt pRintinG,  SRi Lanka.
Item
Turnovr applicable for the purpose of computation of 
Total Turnover 
as per Financial 
Statement
Capital Portion 
of the Leasing 
Installments
Value Added Tax 
payable as per 
Section 2 of the 
Act
Value Added Tax 
Payable as
per Section 25(A) 
of the VAT Act
Value addition 
attributable for
Non Financial 
activities
total
eOG 01-228
 