

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2338
    Page
Posts - Vacant … … … 2312
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"085 – 2018 wf.daia;= ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2018'08'17
No. 2,085  –  FRiday ,  august 17, 2018
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th september, 2018 should reach government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th august, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 government Printer (Acting).
department of govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2309 -B 81440- 5,403 (08/2018)
Note.–  Finance Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 
august 10, 2018.
N. B.–  Part iii of the Gazette No. 2,084 of 10.08.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2310
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2311
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2312
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages (General) in 
Tamil medium
 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule :
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
17.09.2018.
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 30th July, 2018.
Schedule
 District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
  Secretary's Division Application is called Application should be sent
Kandy delthota Post of Birth and death Registrar of  district secretary/additional
   udadelthota division & Post of Marriages  Registrar general, district  
   Registrar of Pathahewahata division   secretariat, Kandy. 
   (general) (tamil Medium)
08–585

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2313
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages (General) in 
Tamil medium
 
NuWaRa ELiya  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
17.09.2018.
 s. s. N. de Silv a, 
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 30th July, 2018.
Schedule
 District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
  Secretariat Division Application is called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Walapane Post of Birth and death Registrar of  district secretary/additional
   udapalatha south division and Post of  Registrar general, district  
   Marriages Registrar of Walapane   secretariat, Nuwara Eliya. 
   division (t amil Medium)
08–584

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2314
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out 
in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the Marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties and 
have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only Muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65)
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Muslim Marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
17.09.2018.
 S. S. N. de Silv a,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 30th July, 2018.
Schedule
 District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
  Secretariat Division Application are called Application should be sent
Kandy akurana Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district secretary/additional
   of Harispattuwa Kurundugaha Ela  Registrar general, district   
   area    secretariat, Kandy. 
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district secretary/additional
   of udadeni area in Pathahewaheta  Registrar general, district   
   division    secretariat, Kandy. 
Kandy y atinuwara Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district secretary/additional
   of Walgampaya area in udunuwara  Registrar general, district   
   y atinuwara division    secretariat, Kandy. 
08–582

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2315
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages
 
MataLE distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Muslim Marriages Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out 
in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the Marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties and 
have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only Muslim males can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the 
retirement is 65)
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Muslim Marriage 
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including Village List and List of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 
17.09.2018.
 S. S. N. de Silv a,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 30th July, 2018.
Schedule
 District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
  Secretariat Division Applications are called Application should be sent
Matale ukuwela Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages district secretary/additional
   of ukuwela area of Matale town  Registrar general, district   
   division    secretariat, Matale. 
08–581

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2316
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar  of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages 
(kandyan/General)
 
KaNdy  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
Person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including village list and list of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 17th 
of september, 2018.
 S. S. N. de Silv a,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 30th July, 2018.
Schedule
 District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
  Secretariat Division Application are called Application should be sent
Kandy Pathadumbara  Post of additional Marriages Registrar of district secretary/additional
     Jambugahapitiya area in Pathadumbara   Registrar general, district  
    division (Kandyan/general)    secretariat, Kandy. 
Kandy Pathadumbara  Post of additional Marriages Registrar of district secretary/additional
    Kalugalawatta area in Pathadumbara   Registrar general, district  
    division (Kandyan/general)    secretariat, Kandy. 
08–586

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2317
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar  births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages (kandyan/General)
 
MataLE  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
Person or Widow/Widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including village list and list of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 17th 
of september, 2018.
 S. S. N. de Silv a,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 30th July, 2018.
Schedule
 District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
  Secretariat Division Application are called Application should be sent
Matale dambulla  Post of Birth and death Registrar of  district secretary/additional
     inamaluwa division and Post of Marriage   Registrar general, district  
    Registrar of Matale North division    secretariat, Matale. 
   (Kandyan/general)
08–583

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2318
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar  of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of marriages 
(kandyan/General)
 
BaduLLa  distRict
aPPLicatioNs are invited for the Posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/additional Registrar Marriages/
additional Registrar of Marriages in the divisions set out in the schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and Marriage divisions and should be 
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts. 
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced 
person or widow/widower.
05.  additional details of Village list/grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and 
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in public places in the division such as district secretariats, divisional secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment i" including village list and list of grama Niladhari divisions can be 
obtained by relevant district secretariat (government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the schedule on or before 17th 
of september, 2018.
 S. S. N. de Silv a,
 Registrar general.
Registrar general’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 19th July, 2018.
Schedule
 District Divisional Post and Division for which Address to which
  Secretariat Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Welimada  Post of Registrar of Marriages (Kandyan/ district secretary/additional
     general) in udukinda division and   Registrar general, district  
    Births and deaths of dambawini North   secretariat, Badulla. 
   division
08–587

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2319
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR  AIR  fORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies 
VacaNciEs exist in the sri Lanka Regular air Force for 
Officer Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following 
branches :–
 (a) general duties Pilot Branch (Male/Female) ;
 (b) administrative Branch (Male) ;
 (c) administrative Regiment Branch (Male/Female) ;
 (d) Operations Air Branch (Air Traffic Controller) 
(Male) ;
 (e) Provost Branch (Male/Female) ;
 (f) information technology Engineering Branch 
(Male).
2. applications are invited from male/female candidates 
possessing the qualifications given below : 
bASIC EDuCATION QuALIfICATION :
Non Degree Programme :
 (a) Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the                                      
g. c . E. (o/L) Exami nation with compulsory 
credit (c) passes for English Language, science, 
Mathematics and a simple (s) pass and above for 
sinhala/tamil language in one sitting (additional 
and optional subjects are not considered).
Degree Programme :
 (b) In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, 
minimum of three simple (s) passes at the                                                          
g. c. E. (a/L) examination and passes may be 
from any stream in one sitting. 
3. SPECIfIC QuALIfICATIONS (DEGREE 
PROGRAmmE) : BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree 
Entrant Qualifications (Accredited by the General Sir John 
Kotelawala defence university).
 (a) General Duties Pilot/Operations Air (Air Traffic 
Controller) branches :
  in addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, simple 
(S) passes in three subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) 
examination in Physical science/Bio science/
technology streams (as applicable) in one sitting. 
 (b) Administrative/Administrative Regiment Provost 
branches :
  In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, simple 
(S) passes in three subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) 
examination in Physical/Bio science/commerce/
technology/arts streams in one sitting.
 (c) Information Technology Engineering branch : 
  In addition to the Basic Education Qualifications 
required for the Non degree Programme, simple (s) 
passes in three subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) examination 
in technology streams with information and 
communication technology or Physical science 
streams in one sitting. 
 (d) Special Note.– Pearson/Edexcel - international 
ordinary/advance Level, gcsE, gcE and 
Cambridge exam qualification may be considered 
subjected to a confirmation obtained from the 
department of Examination, sri Lanka, to effect 
that it is equalant to above basic educational 
Qualifications. 
4. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the 
following general conditions for enlistment in the sri Lanka 
Regular air Force.
 (a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 22 years as at 15th 
January, 2019
 (c) Height : Male - 167.5cm (5' 6") and above
   : Female - 162.5cm (5' 4") and above
 (d) Weight : Male - 17 < BMI < 26
    Female - 17 < MBI < 25
     Weight (Kg)
    BMi = –––––––––
     Height (m)
2
 (e) Chest : Male - 32" (Minimum)
 (f) Colour Vision  : CP2
  standard
 (g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles)
 (h) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. 
No cadet will be permitted to 
marry whilst under training and 
for a further period of one (1) year 
from the date of commissioning. 

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2320
5. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
6. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the 
requirement of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival 
for the first interview the height, vision and weight will be 
measured. candidates whose height, vision and weight are 
below the standard specified in the Gazette notification and 
who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
7. Any candidate who has special skill/qualifications 
may at the discretion of the commander of the air Force be 
cosnidered, even though he/she does not have any of above 
pre-requisites, provided that he/she possess the requisite of 
the Professional/Special qualifications for the best interest 
of the sri Lanka air Force. 
8. Conditions of service : 
 (a) the candidate is to initially enlist in the air Force 
as a cadet on a regular engagement in the same 
manner as for other ranks and will undergo a 
Basic combat training course. on successful 
completion of training, the duration of which will 
depend on the branch, the status allocated on his/
her enlistment as an other Rank will lapse and 
will receive a permanent commission in the rank 
of Pilot Officer. 
 (b) cadets will be requried to undergo training at a 
place in sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the air Force in consultation with 
the Ministry of defence. 
 (c) during the period of training as cadets and 
thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air Force 
Law.
 (d) Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms, 
equipment and medical facilities. 
 (e) during the period of training, a cadet will be 
accommodated in an air Force Mess and will be 
provided with food. 
 (f) in the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating           
his/her candidature for a commission during 
training, the parent or guardian will be required to 
refund to the Republic of sri Lanka all expenses 
incurred up to that time by the Republic of sri 
Lanka on account of such cadet. 
 (g) if at any time during his/her course a cadet is 
reported by the authorities as being unsuitable for 
reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/
her control to qualify for a commission, his/her 
parent or guardian will be required to refund to 
the sri Lanka air Force all expenses incurred on 
his/her training and will be required to enter into a 
bond to this effect with the commander of the air 
Force acting on behalf of the government of sri 
Lanka. 
 (h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 28 of the application form in respect of 
sub-paragraphs (f) and (g) above and forward them 
together with the application. Parent or guardian 
will be required to enter in to a bond subsequently 
in this form with the Republic of sri Lanka prior 
to the appointment of these candidates as cadets. 
 (j) candidates who possess the requirement as per 
para 2 and 3 will be called for the Preliminary 
interview and if successful will be called for 
Medical Examinations and all candidates selected 
will be medically examined under sri Lanka air 
Force arrangements to check the suitability in 
par with the Sri Lanka Air Force Medical fitness 
standards. the general duties Pilots Branch 
candidates, if successful will be called for the 
Flying aptitude tests. all the Branch candidates 
if successful will be called for the Officer Quality 
tests. thereafter, if successful all the candidates 
will be called for the Familiarization training 
programme. candidates who successfully 
complete these tests will be called for the final 
interview. the required number of candidates per 
branch will be selected according to merit at these 
interviews and tests. 
 (k) A single officer is required to live in the officers 
Mess. He/she is provided with furnished 
accommodation and food. Batman service will be 
provided. A single officer's ration allowance and 
batman allowance are paid to the Mess. 
 (l) A married Officer may be provided with a married 
quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants. 
 (m) All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or 
training in any part of the world at any time.
 (n) All Officers are governed by the Air Force Act and 
roders issued from time to time. 
9. Official Language Requirements.- the selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may hereafter be made for giving effect 
to the language policy of the Republic of sri Lanka and 
in particular for implementing the provisions the Official 
Language act, No. 33 of 1956. 

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2321
10. Pay and Allowances : 
  
Year 2018 
(Annual)
Adjustment Allowance 
2018 (Annual)
2020 (Annual)
Rank
Officer Cadets 308,184.00 36,960.00 388,560.00
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 367,356.00 20,844.00 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 398,796.00 12,444.00 502,860.00
Flying Officer 452,916.00 571,380.00 - (30x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
Flight Lieutenant 529,164.00 667,500.00 - (24x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
squadron Leader 579,996.00 731,580.00 - (22x16,020) = 1,084,020.00
  
 (a) since a consolidated revision is in progress at present and same revision completes in year 2020, followings are 
the amounts payable in 2018. Further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial 
step of particular rank. 
 (b) Other Allowances : 
 1. cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
 2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service. 
 3. Hard allowance Rs. 620 per month. 
 4. additional Hard allowance Rs. 4,380 per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 5. special allowance (1) Rs. 3,100 per month (Rs. 100 will be paid for per day).
 6. interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month. 
 7. uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month. 
 8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
 9. Ration allowance Rs. 19,113.36 per month (if permitted to live out Rs. 616.56 per day). 
 10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month). 
 11. Three sets of holiday Railway warrants per year (for officer, spouse and children).
 12. An additional set of Railway warrants or the reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes to travel 
from the Mess to the hometown once a month. 
 13. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items. 
 14. Free medical facilities (including for families if applicable). 
 15. Married Officers permitted to live-out are entitled to a free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work 
within 30 miles radius. 
 16. Flying pay will be paid for those who are in the general duties Pilot Branch. 
 17. Engineering allowances Rs. 15,000.00 pay will be paid for those who are in the applicable to Engineering 
Officers only.
 18. Rent Allowances for married Officers not in occupation of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group 
captain and above Rs. 1,600 to  Rs. 4,250 per month. 
11. Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the air Force Pensions and gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All Officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of 
contributions are as per Widows and orphans Pension (armed Forces) scheme Regulations 1970. 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2322
12. Instructions to Applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicant's 
own hand writing in terms of the form specified 
below. all cages of the application should be 
completed neatly with as much details as possible. 
applications should be forwarded under registered 
cover to : "Command Recruiting Officer, Sri 
Lanka Air force Trade Training School, Ekala, 
kotugoda" so as to reach him not later than 1200 
noon on 31st august 2018. the envelope enclosing 
the application should be marked "Application 
for Cadetship/Lady Cadetship in the .................. 
branch". a candidate will be allowed to apply 
for only one Branch, those who apply for more 
than one Branch the applications will be rejected. 
applications received after the closing date and 
not in accordance with the requirements of this 
notification and not in registered post mail will not 
be entertained. 
 (b) candidates who are in government service/
corporations/Boards/civil Establishments should 
  forward their applications through their                 
Heads of department/corporations/Boards/civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to the 
effect that the candidate will be released if selected. 
 (c) candidates will be required to produce the 
originals with certified photocopy of the following 
documents when summoned for interviews or 
when called upon to do so :
 1. Certificate of Registration of Birth and a 
photocopy (Certificate issued for the purpose of 
the education code will not be accepted) ;
 2. National identity card and a photocopy ;
 3. Original certificates in support of the 
educational qualifications required for the 
branch applied and photocopies ; 
 4. Certificates of trade/technical training and/
or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and photocopies ;
 5. Two recent certificates of character. One 
of these should be from the principal of the 
last school attended and the other from a 
responsible person who has the know of the 
applicant for more than two years or from the 
present employer (if employed).
 6. Original certificates in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
photocopies ;
 7. A plain folder with file tag ;
 8. A colour photo of 2x21/2 inches certified by 
the grama Niladhari.
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered. 
 (e) No documents or original copies of documents 
should be attached to the application form. 
 (f) the air Force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form. 
13. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after selection. 
14. Selection Interviews :
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfill the above conditions. 
candidates so selected will be required to undergo 
tests as may be prescribed by the commander of 
the Air Force. The final selection will then be made 
after an interview of those selected candidates by 
a selection board appointed by the Ministry of 
defence. 
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be informed 
in writing of the place, time and date of such 
interviews. travelling or other expenses will not 
be paid in this respect. 
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he/she is to produce his/her 
National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons. 
 (d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo written, practical and Officer Quality Test 
during the selection process. 
 (e) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a medical screening test as per sri Lanka 
air Force Medical standard during the selection 
process. 

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2323
 (f) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence in the 
selection of a candidate will result in disqualification 
of such candidate.
 (g) candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified. 
 
KvB Jayampathy,
 WWV, RWP, RsP and three Bars, VsV, usP,  
 MMsc (strat stu-china), fndu (china). qhi 
 air Marshal, 
 commander of the air Force. 
Headquarters, 
sri Lanka air Force, 
P. o. Box 594, 
colombo 02. 
Official use only
aPPLicatioN  FoR  oFFicER  cadEt/Lady 
oFFicER cadEt iN tHE ........................... BRaNcH 
oF tHE  sRi LaNKa aiR FoRcE
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (state whether citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––.
 3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 5. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
 6. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  (Age as at 15th January 2019) :
   Years :––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days :–––––––.
 7. Height :––––––––cm. (.........feet..........inches)
 8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 9. District :–––––––––––.
 10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 11. Grama Niladhari Division :–––––––––––.
 12. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 13. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
 14. Gender :–––––––––––.
 15. School attended :––––––––––––.
 16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained : 
  
Name 
of 
School
Type of 
examination
Yearand 
Index 
Number 
of the 
examination 
Subjects passed 
(including 
grading)
ordinary Level
advanced Level
(to mention 
whether qualified 
or not to apply 
for university 
admission)
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving school                       
(if applicable ) :
Name and address of 
employer
Nature of 
employment
Period of Service
From To
 18. Particulars of parents : 
Full Name NIC No. Occupation Present 
address
Father
Mother
 19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 20. details of current achievement in sports. (give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/years 
etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 21. other achievements of note at school or with outside 
Organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) : 
–––––––––––.
 22. any previous service in the armed Force or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps Scouting Organization :–––––––––.
 23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force 
or any of the armed services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications : –––––––––––.
 24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 25. if earlier employed in a government department or 
in the Public sector/Board/corporation (including the 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2324
central Bank, National Bank, universities, Joint stock 
companies controlled by the government etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 26. Particulars of testimonials : 
Name Designation Postal Address
 27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the sri 
Lanka air Force published in the Gazette of the Repubilc of 
sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
28.  declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of the 
applicant :
 (a) i am the parent/guardian of ........................... who 
is an applicant for a cadetship in the sri Lanka air 
Force and who has signed the declaration in cage 27 
of the form of application above. 
 (b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following. 
 (1) to refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his/her candidature for a commission 
during his/her period of training all expenses 
incurred upto that time by the Republic of sri 
Lanka on account of such applicant. 
 (2) to refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant reported on 
by the authorities as being unsuitable (for reasons 
of misconduct or due to causes within his/her 
own control) for the issue of a commission all 
the expenses incurred on his/her account by the 
Republic of sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of Parent/guardian. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of First Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of second Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
 (in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
08–786
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANkA    AIR  fORCE  OffICER  vACANCIES 
1. V acaNciEs exist for Male/Female commissioned 
Officers in the regular/volunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air 
Force in following Branches. 
(a) technical Engineering Branch (Male), 
(b) Medical Branch (Male/Female),
(c) dental Branch (Male/Female), 
(d) administrative Veterinary Branch (Male/Female),
(e) administrative Education Branch (Male),
(f) administrative Band Branch (Male)
2. applications are invited from those candidates 
possessing the basic and professional qualifications as given 
below :
Basic Education Qualification :
 (a)  Minimum of six credit (c) passes at the  g. c. E. (o/L) 
examination with compulsory credit (c) passes 

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2325
for English language, science, Mathematics and 
a simple (s) pass and above for sinhala/t amil 
language in one sitting (additional and optional 
subjects are not considered).
 (b) Minimum of three simple (s) passes at the                   
g. c. E. (a/L) examination and passes may be 
from any stream in one sitting.
 (c) Pearson/Edexcel/international ordinary/advance 
Level, gcsE, gcE and cambridge exam 
qualification may be considered subjected to a 
confirmation obtained from the Department of 
Examination, sri Lanka to effect that it is equalant 
to above basic educational qualifications. 
Professional/Academic Qualification :
 (a) Technical Engineering branch :
 (1)  Chemist - male (volunteer). Bsc in Physical 
Science degree and has more than five years 
experience in surface treatment plant or equal 
field. 
 (b) medical branch :
 (1) Medical Officers - Male/Female (Regular/
volunteer) MBBs or a Medical degree 
equivalent to MBBs (sri Lanka) from any 
recognized university of a foreign country 
which is accepted by sri Lanka Medical 
council and full registration in sLMc.
 (2) medical Students - male/female (Regular) 
students who have completed 3rd MBBs 
(Part 1) or (Part ii) from any local medical 
faculty which is accepted/recognized by the 
sri Lanka Medical council. 
 (3) Pre-Intern Trainees - male/female 
(Regular) Pre-intern Medical Officers who 
have successfully completed MBBs degree 
(sri Lanka) or an equivalent degree from 
any university of a foreign country which 
is accepted/recognized by the sri Lanka 
Medical council with or without provisional 
registration at the sri Lanka Medical council 
(should obtain full registration at sri Lanka 
Medical council within 03 years from the 
date of enlistment). 
 (c) Dental branch :
 (1) Dental Officers - Male/Female (Regular) 
Bds or equivalent from any recognized 
university of foreign country with full 
registration with the sri Lanka Medical 
council. 
 (2) Pre-Intern Trainees -male/female 
(Regular) students who have completed 
final (Part 1) of BDS course and above of a 
Bds degree equivalent to Bds (sri Lanka) 
from any recognized university of a foreign 
country which is accepted by sri Lanka 
Medical council with or without provincial 
registration at sri Lanka Medical council 
will be considered. those candidates 
who are selected have to qualify with full 
registration with the sri Lanka Medical 
council within 05 years from the date of 
enlistment. 
 (d) Administrative Education branch :
 (1) English Language Instructors - male 
(Regular/volunteer) successful completion 
of three (3) years teacher training course 
as an English Language teacher at the 
"National college of Education" or two (2) 
years teacher training course as an English 
Language teacher at the government 
teachers training college of Education or 
Bachelors degree with English Language 
as a subject or a Bachelors Degree B. Ed 
(Bachelor of Education) in English or 
a Bachelors degree Ba/Bsc in English 
medium or diploma in Education or Masters 
degree (Ma/Msc) with English Language 
as a subject or Master Degree (MA/MSc) in 
English medium.
 (e) Administrative veterinary branch :
 (1) Veterinary Officers - Male/Female 
(Regular/volunteer) Bachelor of Veterinary 
Medicine and animal science or equivalent 
with full registration of sri Lanka Veterinary 
council. 
 (f) Administrative band branch :
 (1) band master _Western music (military 
band/beat Group/Rock band) - male 
(Regular/volunteer) Bachelor degree or 

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2326
diploma in Western Music or Postgraduate 
diploma in Western music or passed grade 
Viii or above in theory or practical in 
music of Royal school of music, trinity 
college London, London college of Music 
or Equivalent school with international 
Recognition. 
 
3. Experience.– Post qualification executive work 
experience in the relevant field of two years or more will be 
an added advantage to be considered by the interview board 
for the selection process.
4. Basic Entry Requirements :
 (a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 (b) Civil Status : Married/Unmarried
 (c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
 (d) Age : Not less than 18 years and not 
more than 33 years as at 15th 
January 2019
 (e) Height : Male -  167.5cm (5' 6") and 
above for all branches 
     165.0cm (5' 5") and 
above for Medical/ 
dental branches 
    Female - 162.5cm (5'4") and 
above for all branches 
     160.0cm (5' 3") and 
above for Medical/
dental branches 
 (f) Weight : 17 < .BMI < 26 Male
    17 < BMI < 25 Female
     Weight (Kg)
    BMi = –––––––––
     Height2 (m)
 (g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
 (h)  Colour Vision  : CP2
  standard
 (i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 
(without spectacles)
    6/18 in each eye corrected visual 
acuity with spectacle should be 
6/6 in each eye (Non-t echnical 
Branches except operational 
Branches)
5. Special Note :
 (a)  Applications of candidates who do not fulfil the 
requirement of para 2, 3 and 4 will be rejected. 
On arrival for the first interview the height, vision 
and weight will be measured. candidates whose 
height, vision and weight are below the standard 
specified in the Gazette Notification and who have 
no exceptional skill will not be interviewed. 
 (b) selected candidates will be commissioned in the 
rank of Flight Lieutenant or Flying Officer or 
Pilot Officer in keeping with their professional 
qualification and experience at the discretion of the 
commander of air Force. 
 (c) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a written, practical and an Officer Quality 
test during the selection process. 
 (d) all candidates who are selected are required to 
undergo a medical screening test as per sri Lanka 
air Force Medical standard during the selection 
process. 
 (e) all Masters, Bachelors degrees and diplomas 
should be awarded from a recognized university 
accepted by the university grant commission of 
sri Lanka.
 (f) Any candidate who has special qualifications may 
at the discretion of the commander of the air 
Force be considered, even though he/she does not 
have any of above pre requisites, provided that he/
she possess the requisite of the professional/special 
qualifications for the best interest of the Sri Lanka 
air Force. 
 (g)  due considerations will be given to current 
outstanding achievements in the field of sports. 
 (h)  Official Language Requirements.– selected 
candidates will be required to comply with any rules 
already made or may be made hereafter for giving 
effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of 
sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the 
provisions in the Official Language, Act, No. 33 of 
1956.
 (j) selected candidates will be required to undergo 
training at such places as decided by the 
commander of the air Force. if at any time during 
training, the officer is reported on by the authorities 

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2327
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have 
his/her commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air 
Force disciplinary Regulations. 
 (k) The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations 
published in Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th april 1951 and as amended from time to time. in terms of section 10 of the 
Air Force Act, "Every officer shall hold his/her appointment during the President's Pleasure". However, an officer 
has no right to resign his/her commission unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the air Force act may 
be allowed by the President to do so. the provisions of any Bond/agreement envisaging a period of obligatory 
service in respect of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions of section 11 of the air 
Force Act stated above. Retirement from the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the Air 
Force Pensions and gratuities code. 
 (l) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time. 
 (m) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders issued from time to time. 
 (n) A single officer is required to live in the Officers Mess. He/She is provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. Batman service will also be provided. A single officer's ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to 
the Mess.
 
 (p)  A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as per the 
Establishment Code. Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled to a rental allowance as 
stated in para 6.e.(16).
6. Pay and Allowances :–
 (a) since a consolidated revision is in progress at present and same revision completes in year 2020, following are 
the amounts payable in 2018. Further it is to be noted that all consolidated salaries indicated below are the initial 
step of particular rank. 
Year 2018
(Annual)
Rs. cts.
Adjustment Allowance 
2018 (Annual)
Rs. cts.
2020
(Annual)
Rs. cts.Rank
Pilot Officer (Cadet) 367,356.00 20,844.00 463,260.00
Pilot Officer (Non Cadet) 398,796.00 12,444.00 502,860.00
Flying Officer 452,916.00 - 571,380.00 -(30x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
Flight Lieutenant 529,164.00 - 667,500.00 - (24x16,020) = 1,051,980.00
squadron Leader 579,996.00 - 731,580.00 - (22x16,020) = 1,084,020.00
Wing commander 595,524.00 - 751,140.00 - (17x19,560) = 1,083,660.00
 (b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers : 
Year 2018
(Annual)
 Rs. cts.
Adjustment Allowance 
(Annual)
 
2020
(Annual)
Rs. cts.Grade
Preliminary grade 516,456.00 - 651,780.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 -2x19,560 
-16x26,040)
grade ii 554,652.00 - 699,660.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 -2x19,560 
-16x26,040)
grade i 681,852.00 - 861,660.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 -2x19,560 
-16x26,040)
specialist grade 837,072.00 - 1,056,000.00 (12x32,400)

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2328
 (c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Year 2018 (Annual)
Rs. cts.
2020 (Annual)
Rs. cts.Grade
grade ii 503,748.00 635,460.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 -2x19,560 - 16x26,040)
grade i 681,852.00 861,660.00 (3x16,020 -7x16,140 -2x19,560 - 16x26,040)
specialist grade 837,072 1,056,000.00 (12x32,400)
 (d) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental Officers : 
 (1) Pensionable allowances :
  Preliminary grade - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
  grade ii - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
  grade i - Rs. 3,400.00 per month
  specialist grade - Rs. 3,400.00 per month
 (2) Non Pensionable allowances : 
  Preliminary grade - Rs. 2,125.00 per month
  grade ii - Rs. 1,700.00 per month
  grade i - Rs. 400.00 per month
 (3) dat allowance - Rs. 35,000.00 per month
 (4) Extra duty payments :
  Preliminary grade - Rs. 545.00 per hour
  grade ii - Rs. 631.00 per hour
  grade i - Rs. 872.00 per hour
  specialist grade - Rs. 1,035.00 per hour
 (5) Language proficiency allowance :
  Preliminary grade - Rs. 1,209.00 per month
  grade ii - Rs. 1,217.00 per month
  grade i - Rs. 1,872.00 per month
  specialist grade - Rs. 2,294.00 per month
(6) service allowances indicated in paragraph "e" are to be calculated separately as applicable. 
 (e) Service  Allowances : 
 1. cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
 2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five years of service. 
 3. Hard allowance Rs. 620 per month (Rs. 20.00 per day). 
 4. additional Hard lying allowance Rs. 4,380 per month for those serving in operational areas. 
 5. special allowance (1) Rs. 3,100 per month (Rs. 100 will be paid for per day).
 6. interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month. 
 7. uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month. 
 8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted to live out).
 9. Ration allowance Rs. 19,113.36 per month (if permitted to live out Rs. 616.56 per day). 
 10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
 11. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for officer, spouse and children).

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2329
 12. an additional set of railway warrants or the 
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in 
Messes to travel from the Mess to the hometown 
once a month. 
 13. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items. 
 14. Free medical facilities (including for families if 
applicable). 
 15. Married officers permitted to liveout are entitled 
to a free bus pass to travel from residence to 
place of work within 30 miles radius. 
 16. Rent Allowance for married officers not in 
occupation of a government married quarter. 
Pilot Officer to Group Captain and above                 
Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month. 
 17. service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as 
applicable (payable to service Medical Officers 
in consideration to the number of complete year 
of service).
 18. additional service allowance Rs. 1,500 per 
month (applicable to service Medical & dental 
officers only).
 19. 1/20 allowance - con pay x 1/20 x3 days 
(Maximum) per month (applicable to service 
Medical Officers only).
 20. Extra duty payments 120 hrs. (maximum) per 
month (applicable to service Medical & dental 
Officers only).
 21. Telephone Bill allowances : 
   specialist doctors - Rs. 8,000 per month
   doctors -  Rs. 4,000 per month
 
07. Pensions/Gratuities.- Payable in terms of the air 
Force Pensions and gratuities code 1981 and as amended 
from time to time. All officers are contributors to the 
Widows and orphans Pension (armed Forces) scheme. 
Rates of contributions are as per Widows and orphans 
Pension (armed Forces) scheme Regulations 1970. 
08. Instructions to Applicants :
 (a) applications should be submitted in terms of the 
form specified below. All cages of the application 
should be completed neatly with as much details 
as possible. applications should be addressed to 
"Command Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air 
force Trade Training School, Ekala, kotugoda" 
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 
31st August 2018 under registered cover. the 
envelope enclosing the application should be 
marked "Application for Commission in the 
............................ branch" applications received 
after the closing date and not in accordance with 
the requirements of this notification and not in 
registered post mail will not be entertained. 
 (b)  candidates who are in government service/
corporations/Boards/civil Establishments should 
forward their applications through their Heads  of                                                                                         
department/ corporations/ Boards/ civil 
Establishments and should bear a certificate to 
the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
 (c) candidates will be erquired to produce the 
originals with certified photocopy of the following 
documents when summoned for interviews or 
when called upon to do so :
 1. Certificate of Registration of Birth with a 
photocopy (Certificate issued for the purpose 
of the education code will not be accepted) ;
 2. National identity card and a photocopy ; 
 3. Ordiginal certificates in support of the 
educational and professional qualifications 
required for the branch applied and a 
photocopy ;
 4. Certificates of trade/technical training and/
or experience (if any) obtained from a 
recognized institution and a photocopy ;
 5. Two recent certificates of character                        
(within 06 monhs obtained). one of these 
should be from the Principal of the last school 
attended and the other from a responsible 
person who has the know of the applicant 
for more than two years or from the present 
employer (if employed) ;
 6. Original certificaes in support of sports 
activities and Extra curricular activities and 
a photocopy ;
 7. A plain folder with file tag ;
 8. A colour photo of 2"x2 1/2" inches certified 
by the grama Niladari. 
 (d) applications of candidates who fail to produce 
documents when requested to do so will not be 
considered. 
 (e) No documents or original copies of doucments 
should be attached to the application form. 

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2330
 (f) the air Force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form. 
9. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to 
dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
10. Selection Interview :
 (a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst 
those candidates who fulfil the above conditions. 
candidates so selected from the Preliminary 
interview will be required to undergo a medical 
test as may be prescribed by the commander of the 
Air Force. The final selection will then be made 
after an interview appointed by the Ministry of 
defence. 
 (b) candidates selected for interviews will be informed 
in writing of the place, time and date of such 
interviews. No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this respect. 
 (c) on every occasion an applicant is summoned 
for an interview he/she is to produce his/her 
National identity card issued by the department of 
Registration of Persons. 
 (d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final 
interviews will be required to present themselves 
before an air Force Medical Board.
 
 (e) any one who desires to recommend a candidate 
should do so by giving his/her testimonial. any 
form of canvassing or attempt to influence in the 
selection of a candidate will result in disqualification 
of such candidate. 
 (f) candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified. 
  
 
KvB Jayampathy,
 WWV, RWP, RsP and three Bars, VsV, usP,  
 MMsc (strat stu-china), fndu (china). qhi 
 air Marshal, 
 commander of the air Force. 
Headquarters, 
sri Lanka air Force, 
P. o. Box 594, 
colombo 02. 
aPPLicatioN FoR coMMissioN iN tHE 
sRi LaNKa REguLaR/VoLuNtEER aiR FoRcE iN 
tHE .......................................... BRaNcH
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (state whether citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––.
 3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Branch Applied :–––––––––––.
 5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
 6. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
 7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :––––––.
 8. School attended :––––––––––––.
 9. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
 10, E-male Address  :–––––––––––.
 11. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
  Age as at 15th January, 2019 :
  Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
 12. Height :–––––cm (.........feet..........inches)
 13. District :–––––––––––.
 14. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 15. GN Division and Number :–––––––––––.
 16. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
 17. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
 18. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications 
obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year of  Subjects
 School/ examination examination passed 
 University   (including
    grading)
 ordinary Level
 advanced Level
 Professional 
  Qualifications
 other
 19. Particulars of employment since leaving school/
University (if applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2331
 20. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name NIC No.  Occupation Present 
    address 
 Father 
 Mother 
 21. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 22. details of current achievements in sports. (give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/years 
etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 23. other achievements of note at school/university or 
with outside organizations. (give details with dates/
years etc.) :–––––––––––.
 24. any previous service in the armed Force or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––.
 25. Have you applied earlier to joint the Sri Lanka Air Force 
or any of the armed services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications : –––––––––––.
 26. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 27. if earlier employed in a government department or 
in the Public sector/Board/corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, universities, Joint stock 
companies controlled by the government etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 28. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
 29. Declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the sri 
Lanka air Force published in the Gazette of the Repubilc of 
sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
08–787
SRI  LANkA  REGuLAR /vOLuNTEER  AIR  
fORCE  AIRmEN /AIRWOmEN v ACANCIES
V acaNciEs exist in the Regular/V olunteer Force of the 
sri Lanka air Force for airmen/airwomen in the trades are 
given below :
Basic Education Qualification : 
2. Minimum of six (6) passes at the g. c. E. (o/L) 
Examination from not more than two sittings, including a 
simple (s) pass in sinhala or tamil and English Language.
Specific Qualification : 
3. The specific qualification as per the Trade is as follows :
(a) Aeronautical Engineering Trades :
  (1) aircraft structural technician 
  (2) aircraft Engine technician 
  (3) aircraft Electrical and instrument technician 
  (4) aircraft safety Equipment technician.
  Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings including 
simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil and English 
languages, an simple (s) passes in Mathematics or 
science. a credit pass for Mathematics/ science is 
essential.
and
  Priority will be given to aircraft Electrical and 
instrument technician has successful completion 
of two year fulltime National Certificate Course in 
Engineering craft Practice at a technical college 
recognized by the Ministry of V ocational and 
technical training or equivalent.
(b) general Engineering trades (Male).
 (1) armament Mechanic.
 (2) Motor transport Mechanic.
 (3) surface t echnician.
 (4) sheet Metal Worker.
 (5) carpenter Mechanic.
 (6) general Mechanic.
  Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings including 
simple (s) passes in sinhala / tamil and English 
languages, Mathematics and science. a credit 
pass for Mathematics / science will be an added 
qualification.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2332
Motor transport Mechanic technician will be 
enlisted as V olunteer or Direct Entry subjected to 
their professional qualifications and experience in 
Motor Mechanic Certificate Course.
 
(7) operator Motor transport (Male)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an simple (s) pass in sinhala / tamil 
and English language.
 Possession of a valid light vehicle driving 
license is essential and priority will be given 
to possession of a valid heavy vehicle driving 
license is respectively.
(c) Electronics and telecommunication Engineering 
trades.
(1) air Radio technician (Male),
(2) telecommunication technician (Male).
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil and 
English languages, Mathematics and science. a 
credit pass for Mathematics/ science is essential.
(3) air communicator (Male).
(4) computer technician (Male).
(5) telephonist (Male).
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil 
and English languages.
(d) Medical trades (Male/Female)
(1) Nursing assistant Minimum 6 passes in 
subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at 
not more than two sittings including simple 
pass in English languages and credit passes 
in sinhala/ tamil/ Mathematics/ science and 
one other subject. Having following passes 
at the gcE (a/L) Examination from science/ 
Maths stream in one sitting will be added 
advantage for selection and a qualification 
for advance training under Ministry of Health 
services mentioned therein.
two simple passes from Biology/ 
combined Maths/ Physics/ 
agri science and credit pass 
for chemistry in gcE (a/L) 
examination in one sitting.
- Pharmacist (Male)
Medical 
Laboratory 
technologist
two simple passes from chemistry/ 
Physics/ agri science and credit 
pass for Biology in gcE (a/L) 
examination in one sitting.
- Ecg/ EEt EEg 
technician
two simple passes for chemistry/ 
Biology/ combine Maths and 
credit pass for Physics in gcE 
(a/L) examination in one sitting.
- X Ray technician 
(Male)
Physiotherapist
ophthalmic tech
two simple passes from chemistry, 
Physincs/ agri science and credit 
pass for Biology/ combined Maths 
in gcE (a/L) examination in one 
sitting.
- aFHi (Male)
Having credit (c) pass for English 
in gcE (o/L) examination three 
simple passes from Biology, 
combined Maths, Physics/ agri 
science in gcE (a/L) examination 
in one sitting
- Nursing diploma
(e) Dental Assistant (Male/ Female) 
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings including 
simple (s) passs in English languages and credit 
passes in sinhala/ tamil language, Mathematics, 
Science and one other subject. Having three passes 
added advantage for selection and a qualification for 
advance training under Ministry of Health services.
(f) Administrative Trades :
 (1) administrative assistant (Male/ Female)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil 
and English languages, Maths. Knowledge on 
computers (Microsoft Office package) will be 
an added Qualification.
(2) accounts assistant (Male/ Female)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an simple (s) passes in sinhala/ 
tamil and English languages and a credit in 
Mathematics/ Business and accounts studies. 
Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office 
package) will be an added Qualification.

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2333
(g) Operations Trades  :
(1) operations air (Male)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil 
languages and a credit pass in English language.
(2) Fire Fighter (Male)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil 
and English languages. a valid heavy vehicle 
driving license will be an added qualification.
(3) operations ground (Male/ Female)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil 
and English languages. 
(h) Logistic Trades :
(1) Logistic assistant (Male/ Female)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an simple (s) passes in sinhala/ 
tamil and English languages and a credit in 
Mathematics/ science/ Business and accounts 
studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft 
Office package) will be an added Qualification.
(2) a viation Fuel Quality controller (Male)
 Passes in 06 subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including an simple (s) passes in sinhala/ 
tamil and English languages and a credit in 
Mathematics/ science/ Business and accounts 
studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft 
Office package) will be an added Qualification.
(3) catering assistance (Male)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil 
and English languages.
(4) ground steward (Male)
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings 
including simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil and 
English languages. Experience and professional 
qualification in field of hospitality at Tourist 
Board Authorized Hotels (Ex: Waiter/ Barman. 
House Keeper/ Room Boy/ Room attendance/ 
Room steward)
(j) Police (Male/ Female) :
 Minimum 6 passes in subjects at the GCE (O/L) 
Examination at not more than two sittings including 
simple (s) passes in sinhala/ tamil and English and 
Mathematics languages. Priority will be given to 
male and female candidates those who measured 5’ 
8” and 5’ 6” or above in height respectively.
 vacancies exist in the Regular Sri Lanka Air 
force for Airmen of the in the trades are given 
below as Direct Entry.
4. Trades and Educational, Professional Qualifications 
Required :-
(a) Passed g. c. E. (o/L) (minimum 6 passes including 
English language and Mathematics) at not more 
than two sittings including an simple (s) pass 
in sinhala/t amil and English language. simple 
(S) passes in three subjects at the g. c. E. (a/L) 
examination in Physical/Bio science/chemistry 
subject. 
(c) Possesses a Diploma or equivalent qualification 
and more the two years working experience in 
surface treatment or equivalent field. 
5. Other Requirements :-
 (a) Candidates must fulfill the following general 
conditions for enlistment in the sri Lanka Regular/
V olunteer Air Force :–
1. Nationality  : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2. Age   as at 15th January 2019 :
Regular 
Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 
years, 
Female - Not less than 18 years and not more than 
22 years,
V olunteer 
Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 
years.
Female - Not less than 18 years and not more than 
28 years.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2334
Direct entry :
Male - Not less than 18 years and not more than 28 
years.
Female - Not less than 18 years and not more than 
26 years.
3. Height  :  5 feet 5 inches (165 cm) and above 
   (Male) ;
   5 feet 3 inches (160 cm) and above 
   (Female)
4. Weight : 17< BMI < 26 (Male)
   17<BMI <25 (Female)
   Body Mass index   = Weight(kg)
              Height2 (m) 
5. Vision Colour  :  CP 2
   Standard   
6. Visual Acuity :  6/6 each eye (without spectacles 
   and lens)
   6/18 for one eye and it will be  
  corrected 6/6 with spectacles for 
   direct entry and V olunteer 
   candidates.
7. Chest  : 32"
8. Civil Status  :  
 (a) Regular airmen/airwomen candidates must 
be unmarried and not allowed to marry until 
the completion of two years from the date 
of enlistment and until one year after the 
completion of the Basic trade training 
course and which ever is later). 
 (b) unmarried V olunteer airmen/airwomen 
candidates if not allowed to marry until the 
completion of one year from the combat 
training course and whichever is later.
 (c) unmarried direct Entry airmen/airwomen if 
are not allowed to marry until the completion 
of initial combat training course. 
 (d) ops grd trade airwomen are not allowed to 
marry until the completion of four (4) years 
from the date of enistment.  
6. candidates who do not possess the required educational 
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 02 
to 05 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview 
the height, weight, chest and vision will be measured. 
candidates whose height, weight chest and vision is below 
the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who 
have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. any 
candidate who has special ability/qualifications may at the 
discretion of the commander of the air Force be considered, 
even though he/she does not have the prerequisite on any 
of above, provided that he/she possess the requisite of the 
Professional/Special qualifications for the best interest of 
the sri Lanka air Force.  
7. due consideration will be given to outstanding 
achievements in the field of sports. 
8. Conditions of Service :–
 (a)  the candidate is to initially enlist in the air Force 
as an airmen/airwomen on a regular or volunteer 
engagement and will undergo a Basic combat 
training course. on successful completion of 
training, the duration of which will depend on the 
trade, the status allocated on his/her enlistment as 
an other Rank. 
 (b) airmen/airwomen will be erquired to undergo 
training at a place in sri Lanka or abroad as 
decided by the commander of the air Force in 
consultation with the Ministry of defence. 
 (c) during the period of training as airmen/airwomen 
and thereafter, personnel will be subject to Air 
Force Law. 
 (d) Every airmen/airwomen will be provided 
all items of uniforms, equipment and medical 
facilities. 
 (e) during the period of training, an airmen/
airwomen will be accommodated in an air Force 
Mess and will be provided with food. 
 (f) in the event of a airmen/airwomen voluntarily 
terminating his/her candidature during training, 
the parent or guardian will be required to refund 
to the Republic of sri Lanka all expenses incurred 
up to that time by the Republic of sri Lanka on 
account of such airmen/airwomen.
 (g) if at any time during his/her course a airmen/
airwomen is reported by the authorities as being 
unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to 
causes within his/her control to qualify for a 
commission, his/her parent or guardian will be 
required to refund to the sri Lanka air Force all 
expenses incurred on his/her training and will be 
required to enter into a bond to this effect with the 
commander of the air Force acting on behalf of 
the government of sri Lanka.
 (h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given 
in cage 28 of the application form in respect of sub 
paragraphs (f) and (g) above, and forward them 
together with the application. Parent or guardian 
will be required to enter in to a bond subsequently 
in this form with the Republic of sri Lanka prior 
to the appointment of these candidates as airmen/
airowmen.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2335
 (j) candidates who possess the requirement as per para 1 to 4 will be called for the Preliminary interview and if 
successful will be called for Medical Examinations and all candidates selected will be medically and physically 
examined under sri Lanka air Force arrangements to check the suitability in par with the sri Lanka air Force 
Medical fitness standards. Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be called for the Final Interview. 
the required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit at these interviews and tests. 
 (k) a  single airman is required to live in the airmen barracks. He/she is provided with furnished accommodation and 
food. a single airmen's ration allowance is paid to the Mess. 
 (l) a  married airmen/airwomen may be provided with a married quarter if available. Recovery of rental will be as 
applicable to public servants. 
 (m) all airmen/airwomen are liable to be posted for duty or training in any part of the world at any time. 
 (n) all airmen/airwomen are governed by the air Force act and orders issued from time to time. 
9. Terms of engagement :–
 (a) Regular airmen and airwomen
  selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman/aircraftwomen/in the Regular 
air Force and shall be required to serve for twelve (12) years in which Eight (08) years will have to be served 
continuously whilst serving a further four (04) years in the Regular air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. 
opportunities exist for suitable airmen/airwomen to extend for further service on completion of eight years of 
service on the discretion of the commander of the sri Lanka air Force. 
 (b) V olunteer airmen and airwomen
  selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of aircraftsman/aircraftwomen in the V olunteer 
Air Force and shall be required to serve for five (05) years. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to 
extend for further service on completion of five (05) years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri 
Lanka air Force. 
10. Official Language Requirements.– the selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules already made 
or may hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of sri Lanka and in particular for 
implementing the provisions the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956. 
11. Pay and Allowances:- 
 (a) since a consolidated pay revision is in progress at present and same revision will continue upto year 2020 
followings are the amounts payable till 2020 :–
Year 2018 (Annual)
Rs. cts.
Adjustment 
Allowance 2018 
(Annual)
Rs. cts.
2020 (Annual)
Rs. cts.Rank
air craftsman 244,608.00 81,456.00 354,480.00 (7x300 -19x370)
Leading air craftsman 252,060.00 80,004.00 365,280.00 (4x300 -19x370)
corporal 259,512.00 78,648.00 376,080.00 (1x300-10x370 -9x495)
sergeant 267,996.00 77,148.00 388,560.00 (3x370-9x495 -3x660)
Flight sergeant 273,996.00 76,044.00 397,440.00 (1x370-9x495 -3x660)
Warrant Officer 285,204.00 74,196.00 413,760.00 (7x495-14x660)
Master Warrant Officer 319,404.00 68,796.00 463,260.00 (13x660)

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2336
12. Instructions to Applicants :–
 (a) applications should be submitted in applicants own 
handwriting in terms of the from specified below. 
All cages of the application should be filled with 
much detail as possible. applications should be 
sent by registered post addressed to “Command 
Recruiting Officer,  Sri Lanka Air Force Trade 
Training School, Ekala” so as to reach there not 
later than 1200 noon on 31st august 2018. the 
envelope enclosing the application should be marked 
“Application for Regular/v olunteer Airmen/
Airwomen” on the top left corner. applications 
received at sri Lanka air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda 
after closing date and time and not in accordance 
with the requirement of this notification and not in 
registered post will not be considered. 
 (b)  candidates who are in government service/
corporations/ Boards/ civil Establishments 
should forward their applications through their 
Heads of departments/corporations/Boards/
civil Establishments and should bear a certificate 
to the effect that the candidate will be released if 
selected. 
 (c)  candidates will be required to produce the originals 
of the following documents when interviews or 
called upon to do so:- 
 (1)  Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate 
issued for the purpose of the Education code 
will not be accepted).
 (2)  Certificate in support of the educational 
qualifications required.
 (3)  Certificate for Trade/Technical training and/or 
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized 
institution will be an added advantage.
 (4)  Two recent certificates of character. One of 
these should be from the Principal of the 
last school attended and the other from the 
responsible person who has the know of the 
applicant for more than two years or from the 
present employer (if employed). 
 (5) Certificates in support of sports activities and 
cadetting etc.
 (d)  application of candidates who fail to produce 
document when required to do so will not be 
considered. 
 (e) No original documents or copies of document 
should be attached to the application form. 
 (f) the air Force will not be responsible for loss of 
any originals of certificates if enclosed with the 
application form.
13. candidates considered suitable for the interview will 
be required to appear for an interview at their own expense 
before an air Force Recruiting Board. such candidates will 
be informed individually of place, date and time. 
14. on every occasion an applicant is summoned for 
interviews, he is to produce the National identity card. 
candidates who do not have the National identity card could 
produce some other form of the accepted identification. 
However, no candidates will be enlisted with out the 
National identity card. 
15. candidates likely to be suitable following their 
interviews will be required to present themselves before an 
air Force Medical Board. the required number of candidates 
per trade will be selected according to high marks merit at 
these interviews. 
16. any one who desires to recommend a candidate should 
do so by giving his testimonial. any form of canvassing or 
attempt to influence the selection of a candidate will result 
in disqulaification of such candidates. 
17. any statement in the application which is found to be 
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification 
if the inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for 
dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
18. candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment 
will not be notified. 
 
KvB Jayampathy,
 WWV, RWP, RsP and three Bars, VsV, usP,  
 MMsc (strat stu-china), fndu (china). qhi 
 air Marshal, 
 commander of the air Force.
Headquarters, 
sri Lanka air Force, 
P.o. Box 594, 
colombo.
aPPLicatioN  FoR  aiRMEN/aiRWoMEN iN tHE 
.......................... tRadE oF tHE sRi  LaNKa  aiR 
FoRcE 
 1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
  (state whether citizen of sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration and if latter, quote number and date of 
certificate)
 2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :–––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2337
 3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
 4. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
 5. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
 6. Date of birth (Age as at 15th January 2019) :
  Years :––––––––. Months  :––––––––.  Days  :–––––––. 
 7. Height :–––––cm (...........Feet..............inches)
 8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––.
 9. District :–––––––––––.
 10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
 11. GS Division :––––––––––––.
 12. Telephone Number:–––––––––––.
 13, Married or Single  :–––––––––––.
 14. Gender :–––––––––––.
 15. School Attended :–––––––––––.
 16. Particulars of School qualifications obtained : 
 Name of  Type of  Year and Index  Subjects
 School examination number of the passed 
   examination (including
    grading)
 ordinary Level
 advanced Level
 other
 17. Particulars of employment since leaving school (if 
applicable ) :
 Name and address Nature of Period of Service 
 of employer employment From        To 
 18. Particulars of parents : 
 Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present 
    address 
 Father 
 Mother 
 19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
 20. details of current achievements in sports. (give details 
of teams and competitions participated with dates/years 
etc. and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––.
 21. other achievements of note at school or with outside 
Organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) : 
–––––––––––.
 22. any previous service in the armed Force or V olunteer 
Force, Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :––––.
 23. Have you applied earlier to joint the Sri Lanka Air Force 
or any of the armed services or Police, if so give details 
and the outcome of such applications : –––––––––––.
 24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or 
military court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
 25. if earlier employed in a government department or 
in the Public sector/Board/corporation (including the 
central Bank, National Bank, universities, Joint stock 
companies controlled by the government etc.,) reasons 
for termination of employment :––––––––––.
 26. Particulars of testimonials : 
 Name Designation Postal Address 
27.  Declaration to be signed by the applicant : 
i, declare on my honour that answers given to the above 
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge 
and belief. i have read and understood the procedure which 
will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of 
those candidates who are selected for commission in the sri 
Lanka air Force published in the Gazette of the Repubilc of 
sri Lanka. 
  ––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
Date :–––––––––––.
28.  declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of the 
applicant :
 (a) i am the parent/guardian of ........................... who 
is an applicant for a airmen/airwomen in the sri 
Lanka air Force and who has signed the declaration 
in cage 27 of the form of application above. 
 (b) i hereby undertake to be responsible in the event 
above named applicant being selected for a course 
of training for the following. 
 (1) to refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the 
event of the above named applicant voluntarily 
terminating his/her candidature during his/her 
period of training all expenses incurred upto that 
time by the Republic of sri Lanka on account of 
such applicant. 

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2338
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
 (2) to refund to the Republic of sri Lanka in the event of the above name d applicant reported on by the authorities 
as being unsuitable (for reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his/her own control) for the continuation 
of service all the expenses incurred on his/her account by the Republic of sri Lanka. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  signature of Parent/guardian. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of First Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of second Witness. 
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
  ––––––––––––––,
  signature of applicant. 
08–785
STATE RADIO AWARDS CEREmONy - 2019
iN the history of electronic media in sri Lanka, the radio 
heirs to a history of nine decades. the state Radio awards 
Ceremony is jointly organized by the Ministry of Higher 
Education and cultural affairs, the department of cultural 
affairs and the advisory council of Radio of the sri Lanka 
arts council. it has been decided to hold this ceremony this 
year too on a grand scale, to appreciate those who serve in 
the field of radio broadcasting at state level. The awards 
ceremony is open for all radio channels that were registered 
under the telecommunication Regulatory commissions of 
sri Lanka. it is organized to felicitate the artistes who render 
a yeoman service to the radio (state/private).
Categories  :
1. News and Current Affairs :
 1.1 Best News Editor
 1.2 Best Presenter (Male)
 1.3 Best Presenter (Female)
 1.4 Best investigative News Report
2. Various Forms of Programmes :
 2.1 Best Feature Programme
 2.2 Best documentary Programme
 2.3 Best Magazine Programme
 2.4 Best discussion Programme
 2.5 Best Quiz Programme
(special attention is drawn to the creations produced on 
educational, religious, children's women's. health, sports, 
environmental, national amity, cultural and arts themes.)
3. Radio Drama :
 3.1 Best script Writer in Radio drama
 3.2 Best actor in Radio drama
 3.3 Best actress in Radio drama
 3.4 Best Production in Radio drama
 3.5 Best script Writer in children's Radio drama

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2339
 3.6 Best child actor in Radio drama
 3.7 Best child actress in Radio drama
 3.8 Best Production in children's Radio drama
4. Other Awards :
4.1 Best Narrator
4.2 Best compere (Male)
4.3 Best compere (Female)
4.4 Best Radio sound effect
4.5 Best Jingle
4.6 Best Producer of Programmes
4.7 Best Radio channel
4.8 Best commentator (Live Broadcasting) Male/
Female
 "Prathibha Pranama" awards
three "Prathibha Pranama" life time awards are presented 
to three doyens of the radio broadcasting field of Sri Lanka 
who have rendered an invaluable service to the field.
Conditions and the Descriptive Pamphlet
(Please read carefully before you fill the application)
01. General Instructions :
1.1 the state Radio awards ceremony for the radio 
programs/creations of the year 2017/2018 will 
be held on 13th February 2019. 
1.2 only the programmes produced and broadcast 
in sri Lanka could be presented.
1.3 only the programmes broadcast during the 
period from 01st January 2017 to 30th June 
2018 are eligible for entry.
1.4 only the relevant application from should be 
used in applying for all categories.
1.5 No: 1 - 7 of the application form should be 
filled by the applicant and for No: 8, the 
recommendation of the relevant Head of the 
institution/representative should be obtained.
1.6 No: 9 is applied for radio services (non-
governmental)/ External agencies/producing 
agencies/persons only.
02. Selection of Awardees :
2.1 a wards will be presented only to the categories 
mentioned above.
2.2 Programs produced in sinhala, tamil and 
English are considered to be presented with 
awards.
2.3 special awards of the Jury and merit awards 
will be presented to creative productions in 
addition to the main awards.
03. Applying :
3.1 the number of programmes that a single 
institution could present is not more than 05 
under any single category. (please select at 
institutional level and send thereafter) (For 
instance the maximum number is 05 of cultural 
programmes)
3.2 Persons who serve in radio channels could also 
present entries with the due recommendation of 
their institute.
3.3 application should be sent separately for each 
category.
04. Forwarding the Entries :
4.1 applications should accompany the cds of the 
radio program.
4.2 Entries are received only on week days from 
10.00 am 3.00 pm. 
4.3 Entries should be sent to reach the director, 
Department of Cultural Affairs, 8th floor, 
sethsiripaya, Battaramulla, before the closing date by, 
hand or by registered post. (inquiries-0112-882551, 
0112-872031)
05. General Conditions :
5.1 applications could be obtained by post by 
sending a self-addressed stamped envelope to 
the address specified in 4.3. Applications/CDs 
once accepted will not be returned.
5.2 applications could also be downloaded through 
www.calturaldept.gov.lk.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2340
5.3 "state Radio awards ceremony - 2019" should 
be written on the top left hand corner of the 
envelope.
5.4 closing date of entries is 28th september, 2018 
(applications received after this date will not be 
accepted).
5.5 the applicants should agree with the conditions 
specified in this regard and the decision of the 
Jury shall be declared as the final.
  aNuSha goKula FerNaNdo,
  director,
  department of cultural affairs.
 For Office use
 application No.
State Radio Awards  Ceremony - 2019
Department of Cultural affairs
ENtRy FoRM
1. Name of the Broadcasting Institute :–––––––––––.
  1.1 Shorten Form :–––––––––––.
   (Ex: SLBC)
  1.2 Address :–––––––––––.
  1.3 Fixed Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
  1.4 Fax :–––––––––––.
  1.5 Email :–––––––––––.
  1.6 Web :–––––––––––.
2. Full name of the applicant :–––––––––––.
  2.1 Official Address :–––––––––––.
  2.2 Private Telephone :–––––––––––.
3. Category of entry as per the descriptive pamphlet :                 
–––––––––––.
 (ex:- Best Script Writer in Radio Drama)
  3.1 Number of the category of entry :–––––––––––.
  3.2 Name of the programme :–––––––––––.
  3.3 Date and the time broadcast :–––––––––––.
  3.4 Duration of the programme :
   Hours :––––––. minutes :–––––. seconds :–––––.
4. Contribution :
  4.1 Production :–––––––––––.
  4.2 Scriptwriter :–––––––––––.
  4.3 Presenter/compere/commentator/other :––––––––.
  4.4 Music :–––––––––––.
  4.5 Sound control/Editing :–––––––––––.
  4.6 Dubbing Artiste/V ocals/Singing :
  i. ––––––––––––––––––––––;
  ii ––––––––––––––––––––––;
  iii ––––––––––––––––––––––;
  iv ––––––––––––––––––––––;
  v ––––––––––––––––––––––;
  vi ––––––––––––––––––––––;
  vii ––––––––––––––––––––––.
   Where it is a live broadcasting or a recording :
5. Objective of the programme :–––––––––––.
6. Number of cds presented, pertaining to the programme 
:–––––––––––.
 (only the creations made of cd technology are accepted, 
please number your cds in sequence)
 indicate clearly the name of the production/producer/
category.
7. Statement of the applicant  :
i ……………… hereby agree with the rules and 
regulations of the state Radio awards ceremony 2019 and i 
accept the decision of the Jury as the final.
i possess the power and authority to present the program/
creation titled ………………………… to state Radio 
awards ceremony 2019. i certify that no other institute or a 
person has claims on the ownership of the radio programe/
creation presented by me. i myself shall be responsible to 
solve any issue which may arise in this regard.
Name of the Producer/Compere/Applicant :–––––––––––;
Signature :–––––––––––;
Date :–––––––––––.
8. Recommendation of the Institute :
i recommend that the programme/creation titled ……… 
…….. presented by ……… ……… (Producer/compere) 
for state Radio awards ceremony 2019 was broadcast in 
……………………………………….. Radio channel 
during the period from 01st January, 2017 to 30th June, 
2018. i shall be responsible for any issue arise therefore and 
action will be taken by me to meditate in any such issue.
Name of the Head of the Institution/Representative :––––––;
Designation :–––––––––––;
Signature :–––––––––––; 
Date :–––––––––––.
(Official frank)

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2018'08'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.08.2018
2341
9. statement of the legal owner/producing company/
agency/non-governmental organization if so :
Name of the legal owner :–––––––––––;
Designation :–––––––––––;
Address :–––––––––––;
Telephone :–––––––––––;
Fixed :–––––––––––;
Mobile :–––––––––––.
i hereby certify that i possess/the institution  above  
possesses the legal ownership of the ……………./
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  oF  goVERNMENt  PRiNtiNg,  sRi  LaNKa.
program/ creation/radio commercial/script/other/titled 
…………………… presented for State Radio Awards 
Ceremony 2019 and there will not be any obstacle to 
present it for the above ceremony. in case of any claims on 
ownership by any other person or institution i shall hold the 
responsibility to solve any such issue. (cut off the words 
inapplicable).
Signature :–––––––––––;
Date :–––––––––––.
(Official Frank)
08 - 542
  
 