

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2013'12'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2209
wxl 1"841 - 2013 foieïn¾ ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'12'13
No. 1,841 – FRIDAY , DECEMBER 13, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  03rd January, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th
December,  2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
P
AGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... ––
Other Appointments &c. ... ––
Provincial Councils Notifications ... 2210
By-Laws ... 2210
Posts - Vacant ...       ––
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
2209

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.12.2013
2210
By-Laws
Provincial Council Notifications
BELIATTA  PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Entertainment Tax
IT is hereby notified that by virtue of powers vested in me by
Sub Section (2) of Section 2 of Entertainment Ordinance (Chapter
267) which should be read with Para (a) of Sub-section (1) of
Section (2) of Provincial Council Act (Supplementary Provisions )
No. 12 of 1989, I, Gustinggna Wadu Shan Wijayalal De Silva,
Minister of Local Government of Southern Provincial Council
hereby approve the proposal mentioned in the following schedule
and seconded by the Sabha under Sabha decision 7-1 taken at the
general meeting held on 06th December, 2012.
G
USTINGGNA WADU SHAN WIJAY ALAL DE SILV A,
Chief  Minister and Minister of
Local Government,
Provincial Council, Southern Province.
Chief Minister’s Office,
Galle.
2nd October, 2013.
PROPOSAL
Every person who carry out following entertainment event which
related to the purposes of Entertainment Ordinance (Chapter 267)
within the area of Beliatta Pradeshiya Sabha should pay
entertainment tax as described below:–
(a) In a cinema show an amount similar to Seven percent (7%) of
total amount charged from all entrants for that cinema show.
(b) In another event of entertainment, an amount similar to Ten
percent (10%) of total amount charged from all entrants for
that event of entertainment.
By virtue of powers vested in Local Government institutions by
Section 2 of the said Entertainment Tax Ordinance, Pradeshiya
Sabha of Beliatta Proposes that entertainment tax should be
recovered and it should be paid on the day prior to the day of such
purpose of entertainment.
12 - 570/2
SOUTHERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Chief Secretary’s Office
STANDARD BY-LAWS
IT is hereby notified that the Southern Province Provincial Council
has at its meeting held on 23.07.2013, unanimously approved the
draft by-laws made by the Minister-in-charge of the subject of
Local Government of the Southern Province Provincial Council,
under the powers vested in him in terms of Section 2, Sub-section
(I) of the Local Goverment Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act
No. 06 of 1952 (Chapter 261) read with Section 2, Sub-section (I)
(a) of the Provincial Councils (Ancillary Provisions) Act, No. 12 of
1989 and notified in Part IV(b) of Gazette No. 1811 dated 17.05.2013
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to wit-
By-laws relating to the interpretation of all standard by-laws of
Urban Councils within the Southern Province; by-laws on general
provisions applicable to all standard by-laws; by-laws on penalties
regarding any violation of any provision or directive contained in
any standard by-law; by-laws relating to the procedure of the
council meetings; by-laws  on the sale of fish; by-laws on the sale
of meat; by-laws relating to factories making soft drinks; by-laws
relating to hair dressing saloons, barbers’ saloons and beauty
parlours; by-laws on bakeries; by-laws  on dairy farms; by-laws
on swimming pools, by-laws  on factories making ice; by-laws  on
eateries, reataurants and tea or coffee shops; by-laws  on hotels;
by-laws  on lodging houses; by-laws  on laundries; by-laws  on
factories; by-laws  relating to funeral undertakers’ services;
by-laws  relating to the sale of food items by itinerant traders; by-
laws  relating to  pedestrian crossings; by-laws  on regulation,
supervision and control of industrial premises associated with
building materials or premises used for their stock keeping; by-
laws  on parking of motor vehicles and trafffic control; by-laws  on
prevention of damages to roads or obstruction of road usage; by-
laws on the regulation, control and levying of fees for crematoriums;
by-laws  on the maintenance of public fairs; by-laws  relating to
play grounds; by-laws  relating to community centres; by-laws  on
advertising posters; by-laws on the registration of pawning activities
and pawn brokers and by-laws relating to the submission of periodic
returns and other reports.
G
USTINGGNA WADU SHAN WIJAYALAL DE SILV A,
Chief  Minister and Minister of
Local Government
Provincial Council, Southern Province.
Chief Minister’s Office,
Galle.
20th November, 2013.
12-570/1
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.