

<!-- page 1 -->

THE  GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC 
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
 SRI  LANKA
Part II of April 04, 2025
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 10.04.2025)
Price : Rs. 24.00  Postage : Rs. 150.00
This Gazette Supplement can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
MABOTUWANA SRI PIYARATHANA NAYAKA THERO 
SUWASEV ANA FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
(Private Members’ Bill)
to incorporate the Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation
To be presented in Parliament by Hon. Dayasiri Jayasekara, M.P. for 
Kurunegala District
A
BILL

<!-- page 2 -->

Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
1
5
15
20
25
2 - PL 15175 -  285 (03/2025)
10
AN  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  MABOTUWANA                    
SRI PIYARATHANA NAYAKA THERO SUWASEVANA FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an  Foundation called and known as the 
“Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana 
Foundation” has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka for the 
purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and transacting 
all matters  connected with the said Trust according to the 
rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said foundation has heretofore 
successfully carried out and transacted several objects and 
matters for which it was established, and has applied to 
be  incorporated, and it will be expedient to grant the said 
application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Mabotuwana                             
Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana Foundation 
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2025.
2.  From and after the date of commencement of this 
act, such and so many persons as now are members of the 
Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana 
Foundation (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or 
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation 
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual 
succession, under the name and style of the “Mabotuwana   
Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero Suwasevana Foundation” 
(hereinafter referred to as the “body corporate”) and by that 
name may sue and be sued, with full power and  authority 
to have and use a common seal and alter the same at its 
pleasure.
Short title
Incorporation 
of the 
Mabotuwana 
Sri 
Piyarathana 
Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana 
Foundation
Preamble

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
5
15
20
25
10
3.  (1) The general objects for which the body corporate 
is constituted are hereby declared to be—
 ( a) to give temporary residential facilities to patients 
from various areas of Sri Lanka suffering from 
dreadful non – communicable diseases to the 
Karapitiya Hospital for treatment;
 ( b) to provide assistance and support through the 
implementation of programmes for the advantage 
of the differently abled and children with special 
needs;
 ( c) to operate a library for making available library 
facilities for the mental comfort of residents;
 ( d) to provide the residents with a meal prepared in a 
safe manner and according to proper standard free 
of charge;
 ( e) to provide each patient facilities separately, such 
as fridges necessary to properly store medicines 
etc, that should be administered daily to patients 
and operating a support service to give each patient 
the prescribed doses of medicine at the speci ﬁ e d           
time;
 ( f) to provide free accommodation facilities to 
relatives, friends or acquaintances accompanying 
patients and providing them with meals free of 
charge;
 ( g) to provide ﬁ nancial aid in the case of poor and 
helpless patients who cannot afford the medicine 
prescribed to them; and 
The General 
objects of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 4 -->

Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
3
5
15
20
25
10
 ( h) to act in cooperation with local and foreign people 
and organizations who are willing to work for 
helpless patients.
(2) In the implementation of the objects speci ﬁ ed 
in subsection (1) the Corporation shall ensure that 
such implementation shall be carried out without any 
discrimination based on race, religion, language, caste, sex, 
political opinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.
4.  The objects of the body corporate shall be carried 
out in such manner so as not to create any con ﬂ ict between 
the work of the Corporation and any work being carried 
out simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of the 
Government or any Provincial Council.
5.  (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the body 
corporate shall be carried out by a Board of Management 
(hereinafter referred to as “the Board”) consisting of such 
number of of ﬁ ce bearers as may be speci ﬁ ed by the rules 
made under section 7.
(2) (a) The Board of Management of the foundation that 
holds ofﬁ ce on the day immediately preceding the date of 
commencement of this Act, shall function as the Board of the 
body corporate until the ﬁ rst Board is appointed or elected 
in the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.
(b)The ﬁ rst Board of the body corporate shall be appointed 
or elected within one year of the date of commencement of 
this Act.
Body         
corporate 
to ensure 
no conﬂ ict 
with work of 
Ministry or 
Department 
of the Central 
Government 
or Province
Management 
of the affairs 
of the body 
corporate

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
(c) Subject to the provision of clause 7, the Interim Board 
of the body corporate shall have the power to make rules for 
the interim administration of the body corporate by majority 
consent, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or 
any other written laws.
(3) ( a) Every of ﬁ ce bearer of the Board including the 
patrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a 
period of three years and any such of ﬁ ce bearer, patron or 
advisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election 
after lapse of the said period of three years.
(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death, 
resignation, incapacity or removal from of ﬁ ce of an of ﬁ ce 
bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the 
Corporation, elect or appoint a person to ﬁ ll such vacancy.
(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph ( b) 
shall hold ofﬁ ce only for the unexpired portion of the term 
of ofﬁ ce of the member whom he succeeds.
6.  Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other 
written law, the body corporate shall have the power to do, 
perform and execute all such acts and matters as necessary 
or desirable for the promotion or any one of them, including 
the power—
 ( a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct, renovate and 
otherwise obtain lands or buildings which may 
be required for the purpose of the body corporate 
and to deal with or dispose of the same as may be 
deemed expedient with a view to promoting the 
objects of the body corporate;
 ( b) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations, 
in cash or kind with or without security:
5
15
20
25
30
10
Powers of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 6 -->

Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
5
Provided that, the Board shall obtain the prior 
written approval of the Department of External 
Resources of the Ministry of the Minister assigned 
the subject of Finance, in respect of all foreign 
grants, gifts or donations made to the body 
corporate;
 ( c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate, 
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques, 
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments 
and to open, operate and close accounts in any 
banks;
 ( d) to invest any funds not immediately required for 
the purposes of the body corporate in such manner 
as the Board may determine;
 ( e) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and 
administer any lawful trust or any real or personal 
property with a view to promoting the objects of 
the body corporate;
 ( f) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the services 
of ofﬁ cers and servants of the body corporate and 
exercise disciplinary control over them and to pay 
them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as 
may be determined by the body corporate;
 ( g) to do all other things as are necessary or expedient 
for the proper and effective carrying out the objects 
of the body corporate.
7.  (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from time 
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less 
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make 
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any 
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:–
5
15
20
25
30
10
Rules of 
the body 
corporate

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
 ( a) the classi ﬁ cation of membership, admission, 
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members 
and fees payable by members;
 ( b) the election of of ﬁ ce bearers of the Board or 
vacation of or removal from ofﬁ ce of ofﬁ ce bearers 
and the powers, duties and functions of the of ﬁ ce 
bearers;
 ( c) the terms and conditions of appointment, powers, 
functions and duties of the various of ﬁ cers, agents 
and servants of the body corporate;
 ( d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning 
and holding of meetings of the Board, or any              
sub-committee thereof, notices and agenda of such 
meetings, the quorum and the conduct of business 
thereat;
 ( e) the quali ﬁ cation and disquali ﬁ cation to be a 
member of the Board and the body corporate;
 ( f) the administration and management of the property 
of the body corporate; and
 ( g) the management of the affairs of the body corporate 
and the accomplishment of its’ objects and 
dissolution of the body corporate.
(2) The rules made by the body corporate may be 
amended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting 
and in like manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  The members of the body corporate shall at all time 
be subject to rules of the body corporate.
5
15
20
25
10

<!-- page 8 -->

Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
7
(4)  The rules made under this section shall be published 
in the Government Gazette.
(5) Every rule made by the body corporate shall within 
three months of its publication in the Gazzette be brought 
before Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not 
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the 
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything 
previously done thereunder.
8.  The Board shall maintain a register of members in 
which name, address and other essential details of the 
members be inscribed.
9.  (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.
(2) All moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation, 
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for an account of 
the body corporate shall be deposited in one or more banks 
approved by the Board to the credit of the Corporation.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all sums of money 
as are required to defray any expenditure incurred by the 
body corporate in the exercise, performance and discharge 
of its powers, duties and functions under the Act.
  
10.  (1) The ﬁ nancial year of the body corporate shall be 
the calendar year.
(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to be 
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all 
other transactions of the body corporate.
(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be audited 
by a qualiﬁ ed auditor appointed by Auditor General in terms 
of Article 154 of the Constitution.
5
15
20
25
10
Register of 
members
Fund of the 
body corporate
Accounts and 
the auditing

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
(4) For the purpose of this section “quali ﬁ ed auditor” 
means–
 ( a) an individual who being a member of the Institute 
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other 
institute established by law, possesses a certi ﬁ cate 
to practice as an Accountant issued by  the Council 
of such  institute; or
 ( b) a ﬁ rm of Accountants each of the resident partners 
of which, being a member of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other 
institute established by law, possesses a certi ﬁ cate 
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council 
of such institute.
11.  (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activities 
of the body corporate for each ﬁ nancial year and submit 
such report togother with the audited statement of accounts 
to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister assigned the 
subject of Social Services and to the Registrar of Voluntary 
Social Services Organizations appointed under the Voluntary 
Social Services Organization (Registration and Supervision) 
Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration of six months of 
the year succeeding the year to which such report relates.
(2) A separate account relating to the foreign and 
local moneys received by the body corporate during the 
ﬁ nancial year shall be attached to the report referred to in                                
subsection (1).
12.  All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing 
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, 
shall be paid by the body corporate hereby constituted, and 
all debts due to, and subscriptions and contributions payable 
to the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the body 
corporate for the purpose of this Act.
5
15
20
25
30
10
Debts due 
by and 
payable to the 
Foundation
Annual Report

<!-- page 10 -->

Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
9
13.  Subject to the provision of this Act, the body corporate 
shall be able and capable in law, to take and hold any property 
movable or immovable which may become vested in it by 
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition 
or otherwise, and all such property shall be held by the body 
corporate for the purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules 
of the body corporate  made under section 7, with power to 
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the 
same.
14.  The moneys and property of the body corporate 
however derived shall be applied solely towards the 
promotion of the objects of the body corporate and no portion 
thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by 
way of dividend, bonus or proﬁ t to the members of the body 
corporate.
15.  (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be afﬁ xed 
to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of two 
members of the Board who shall sign their names to the 
instrument in token of their presence and such signing shall 
be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody 
of an ofﬁ ce bearer of the Board as may be decided by such 
Board.
16.  (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate there 
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities, 
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be 
distributed among the members of the body corporate, but 
shall be given or transferred to any other institution having 
objects similar to those of the body corporate, and which is  
by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any income 
or property among its  members. 
5
15
10
Body 
corporate may 
hold property 
movable and 
immovable
Application 
of money and 
property
Seal of the 
body 
corporate
Property 
remaining on 
dissolution
20
25
30

<!-- page 11 -->

10 Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
(2) For the purpose of this subsection (1) the appropriate 
institution shall be determined by the members of the body 
corporate immediately before the dissolution at a general 
meeting by the majority of votes of the members present.
17.  Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect 
the rights of the Republic or of anybody politic or corporate.
18.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala 
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Saving of the 
Rights of the 
Republic and 
others
Sinhala text 
to prevail 
in case of 
inconsistency
5

<!-- page 12 -->

Mabotuwana Sri Piyarathana Nayaka Thero 
Suwasevana Foundation (Incorporation)
11
Printed at the Department of  Government Printing