

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
299
299
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  29th  November, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon
on  15th November, 2013.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2013.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 300
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"836- 2013 fkdjeïn¾ 08 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'11'08
No. 1,836 – FRIDAY ,  NOVEMBER   08,  2013
N.B.–  Parts  I : III and II   of the Gazette  No. 1,835 of 01.11.2013 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'08
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 08.11.2013
300
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s  No. : 4/10/30486.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.:
bfld$09$;siai$oS'n'$2009$17'
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the  Cultivation Purpose, Arabha
Waththage Thanuja Nishanthi Rodhdhrigo has  requested on lease a
state land containing in extent about 19.65 Ph.  forming a portion of
Lot  Number B as   depicted in  the  Tracing  No. of  TSS/2009/287
and  situated in the Village of  Yodhakandiya No. 13   which  belongs
to the  Grama Niladhari Division  of Ranakeliya coming  within the
area of authority of   Tissamaharama  Divisional Secretariat in the
District of Hambantota.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :-
On the North by : Land  of P. A. Andaraya's  ;
On the East by : Land of  D. A. Malini   ;
On the  South by : Land  No. A &  road for village   ;
On the West by : Land of  D. A. Siripala.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Terms  of the Lease.– Thirty Years (30) (from 15.06.1995);
The Annual rent  of the Lease. – 4% of the  undeveloped
V alue  of the land as per valuation of the  Chief Valuer  in the
year  1995. This amount  of the lease must  be quinquennially
revised in such  a  manner that the amount as a result of the
revision will be  not less than 50% of the amount  that just
preceded.
Penalty .- Treble 4% of the  developed value of the land;
(b) This  lessees must, within one year of the commencement
of the lease,  develop the said land,  in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the  Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees must not use this land for any purposes other
than for the purpose of cultivation  ;
(d) The  lease must  also be subject to the  other  special
conditions stipulated and imposed  by the  Divisional
Secretary and by other  institutions ;
(e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for  which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(f) No sub - leasing can be done until the expiry of a minimum
period of  05 years from 17.09.2012;
(g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
UBUDI PREMADASA,
Assistant Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
 No. 1200/6, ''Mihikatha Medura",
Land  Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla.
11-342
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.