

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2208$13 - 2020 foieïn¾ ui 30 jeks nodod - 2020'12'30
No. 2208/13 - wedNesdAY,  december 30, 2020
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
L. d. b. 4/2013.
COuNCIL Of LEGAL EDuCATION ORDINANCE
(Chapter 276)
ruLes made by the Incorporated council of Legal education with the concurrence of the minister of Justice under           
section 7 of the Incorporated council of Legal education Ordinance (chapter 276).
 Incorporated council of Legal education 
 (signed for and on behalf of the Incorporated 
 council of Legal education).
colombo.
1A-  PG  005266 — 30 (01/2021)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
2A
ruLes 
1. rules made under section 7 of the council of Legal education Ordinance (chapter 276) as amended from time to time, 
are hereby further amended as follows:-
(1) by the repeal of rule 23 and the substitution therefor of the following rule:-
“23. (1)  A person shall not be admitted to the sri Lanka Law college to qualify himself as an Attomey-At -law of the 
supreme court of sri Lanka unless such person -
 (a) is a citizen of sri Lanka;
 (b) has completed his seventeenth year of age at the time of making the application;and
 (c) has submitted a certificate of good character acceptable to the Council.
 (2) There shall be a General entrance examination or a special entrance examination as the case may be, conducted 
in respect of any year by the department of examinations of sri Lanka under the guidance of the council for 
the purpose of admitting students for a course of study at the sri Lanka Law  college enabling such persons to 
qualify themselves as Attorneys-At-Law of the supreme court of sri Lanka as provided hereinunder.
 (3) Any person who fulfils the requirements specified in sub rule (1) of this rule shall be eligible to submit an 
application to the sri Lanka Law college to sit the General entrance examination held in respect of any year, if 
such person,
 (a) possesses the qualification of having obtained two credit passes and one simple pass at one and the same 
sitting at :-
 (i) the Sri Lanka General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination conducted by the 
department of examinations; or
 (ii) the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination, United Kingdom; or
 (iii) any other Examination within the criteria of recognizing Advanced Level qualifications referred to 
in sub paragraphs (i) or (ii) of paragraph (a) of this sub rule as recommended by the department of 
examinations of sri Lanka; and
 (b) possess a credit pass in the english Language and a credit pass in the sinhala or Tamil Language, obtained 
at the Sri Lanka General Certificate of Education (Ordinary Level ) Examination or National Certificate of 
General education examination or an examination recognized by the department of examinations of sri 
Lanka as equal to the above examinations.
 (4) (a) Any person who is eligible under sub rule (1) and (3) and who has obtained a bachelor of Laws degree 
(LL.b) from any university established or deemed to be established under the universities Act, No. 16 of 
1978 where the university admission is determined based on the Z-score or any other criteria, adopted by the 
University Grants Commission for the time being at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
examination shall be exempted from the General and special entrance examinations and the Preliminary 
and Intermediate examinations conducted by the sri Lanka Law college and shall be directly admitted to 
the sri Lanka Law college to sit the Final examination conducted by the sri Lanka Law college to qualify 
himself as an Attorney-At-Law of the supreme court of sri Lanka

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
3A
  (b) Any person who is eligible under sub rule (1) and (3) and who has obtained a bachelor of Laws degree 
(LL.B) from the Open University of Sri Lanka or the Kotelawala Defence University shall, at the discretion 
of the council, be entitled to the exemption referred to in Paragraph (a) of this sub rule or to the exemption 
referred to in rule 75(2(a). The council may, from time to time, subject to the provisions of sub rule (5) 
review its decision to grant such exemption.
 (5) The Council may, from time to time issue directives to the Open University of Sri Lanka or the Kotelawala 
defence university as the case may be, stipulating conditions as may be necessary for the said institutions to 
have and maintain the standards required for the exemption granted under paragraph (b) of sub rule (4).
 (6) Any person who is eligible under sub rule (1) and (3) and who has obtained a bachelor of Laws degree (LL.b) 
from the following degree awarding institutions, may be eligible to be admitted to the sri Lanka Law college 
to qualify himself as an Attorney-At- Law of the supreme court of sri Lanka if such person has sat and passed 
the special entrance examination referred to in sub rule (2) of this rule:-
 (a) an institution recognized as a degree Awarding Institute in sri Lanka under section 25A of the universities 
Act, No. 16 of 1978 ; or
 (b) an institution recognized by the council having done an evaluation for recognizing such institutions in 
accordance with such criteria as may be specified by the Council;
  
 (7) Any person who is eligible under sub rule (1) and (3) and who has obtained a bachelor of Laws degree (LL.b) 
from a university established outside sri Lanka, being -
 (a) a recognized university in the United States, United Kingdom,Canada, Australia, Singapore, New Zealand;
 or
 (b) a university which shall fall within the top one hundred (100) universities in the stream of Law in terms of 
the Quacquarelli symond (Qs) world university ranking or any other ranking recognized by the council 
as the case may be within any one year during the term of study of such graduate, 
  and which university may from time to time be evaluated and recognized by the council in accordance 
with a criteria specified by the Council for recognizing such universities, may be eligible to be admitted to 
the sri Lanka Law college to qualify himself as an Attorney- At - Law of the supreme court of sri Lanka 
if such person has sat for and passed the special entrance examination: 
  Provided however that, in the case of a person who has obtained a bachelor of Laws degree (LL.b) from 
a university referred to in paragraph (a) or (b), such person shall be permitted to sit the special entrance 
examination referred to in sub rule (2) of this rule, only if the degree awarded by such universities is a 
qualifying Law degree (QLd) or a degree which enables such graduate to enter the bar and practice as an 
Attorney-At-Law in the relevant jurisdiction.
 (8) The council shall in respect of each academic year, determine the percentage or the number of students who shall 
be admitted to the sri Lanka Law college having being successful at the entrance examinations referred to in 
sub rule (2) and in the order of merit based on their performance at such entrance examinations and the number 
of vacancies as determined from time to time by the council:
  Provided however, a candidate who has obtained in respect of both the papers referred to in sub rule (10), a mark 
which is less than fifty per centum for each paper shall not be selected for admission.
 (9) every application to sit for the General entrance examination or special entrance examination, shall be submitted 
in such form as shall be determined by the council for such purpose. every such application shall be made on 
or before such date as shall be determined by the council to be the date of closing of applications and shall be 
accompanied by a receipt in proof of payment of the fee as shall be determined by the council. The fee shall not 
in any event be refunded.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
4A
 (10) (a) A candidate sitting for the General entrance examination referred to in sub rule (2) shall be required to 
sit for and pass written question papers in -
  (i) sinhala Language or Tamil Language or english Language as the case may be; and
  (ii) General Knowledge and General Intelligence.
  (b) A candidate may opt to answer the General Knowledge and General Intelligence paper referred to in sub 
paragraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of this sub rule in the sinhala, Tamil or english medium. If he opts to answer 
the General Knowledge and General Intelligence paper in either Sinhala medium or the Tamil medium, 
he shall be required to sit the english Language Paper referred to in sub paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of 
this sub rule. If he opts to answer the General Knowledge and General Intelligence paper in the English 
Language, he shall be required to sit for either the sinhala Language or the Tamil Language Paper.
  (c) The General entrance examination for admissions to any academic year shall be held as far as practically 
possible, in the month of June immediately preceding that academic year as may be fixed by the Principal 
of the sri Lanka Law college.
  (d) The syllabus for the language paper at the General entrance examination shall be -
  (i) an essay, the main object being to test the candidate’s power of thought, expression and 
arrangement;
  (ii) precise writing, paraphrasing;
  (iii) syntax,vocabulary, synonyms and antonyms, figurative and idiomatic usage.
  (e) the time allocated to answer each paper at the said examination shall be three hours.
 (11)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in sub rule (1), a person shall not be admitted to qualify as an 
Attorney-At -Law of the supreme court of sri Lanka if it appears that by reason of employment or otherwise 
he is unable to attend lectures as required by rule 21 or is unable to comply with the provisions of rule 36 
relating to period of apprenticeship,
 (12)  The following provisions shall apply in respect of the special entrance examination -
  (a) a graduate referred to in sub rule (6) and (7) shall be required to sit for the special entrance examination 
conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka held under the directions of the council. The 
council shall from time to time appoint a panel of teachers, in the relevant subjects referred to in paragraph 
(b), at the sri Lanka Law college in order to design the curriculum and other relevant factors relating to 
the said special entrance examination to be conducted by the department of examinations of sri Lanka;
  (b) the council shall from time to time, determine the subjects in law in which such candidate shall be examined 
at such special entrance examination;
  (c) in order to be selected for admission to the sri Lanka Law college a candidate shall satisfy the cutoff mark 
and be selected in order of merit, based on the marks obtained at the said special entrance examination 
and the existing number of vacancies as determined by the council from time to time:
   Provided however, the number of candidates to be selected, as far as practically possible shall not exceed 
the number admitted to the sri Lanka Law college under the General entrance examination referred to in 
sub rule (2);

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
5A
  (d) the Special Entrance Examination shall be held during a specified month as determined by the Council, of 
the year preceding the year of entry to the sri Lanka Law college.
  (2) immediately after rule 28 thereof, by the insertion of the following new rule:-
 “ 28A. (1) All courses conducted at the sri Lanka Law college shall be conducted in the english medium.
  (2) english shall be the mandatory medium of examinations and shall be introduced in the following 
manner-
   (a) Preliminary Year, commencing from the year 2022- a minimum of three (3) subjects to be 
answered in the english medium;
;
   (b) Intermediate Year, commencing from the year 2023- a minimum of five (5) subjects to be 
answered in the english medium;
   (c) Final Year, commencing from the year 2024 - all subjects to be answered in the english 
medium.
   (3) The council may, considering the medium of instruction at any university established or;deemed 
to be established under the universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, the Open university of sri Lanka 
or the Kotelawala Defence University, at its discretion, grant exemptions to any person who has 
obtained a bachelor of Laws degree (LL.b) from any such university, from the application of 
this rule until the year 2025.”
  (3) in rule 30 thereof, by %the substitution, for the words “a university of ceylon established or deemed to 
have been established by or under any written law and in existence on the day prior to the coming into 
operation of the universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 or of the university of colombo sri Lanka,” of the 
words “any university established or deemed to be established under the universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 
where the university admission is determined based on the Z-score or any other criteria, adopted by the 
University Grants Commission for the time being at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
examination”;
  (4) in rule 31 thereof, by the substitution, for the words “ a university of ceylon,” of the words “any university 
established or deemed to be established under the universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 where the university 
admission is determined based on the Z-score or any other criteria, adopted by the university Grants 
Commission for the time being at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination,”;
  (5) in rule 32 thereof, by the repeal of paragraph (A) thereof;
  (6) by the insertion immediately after rule 32 thereof, of the following new rule 32A:-
    “ 32A. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in rule 30, 31 and 32, a graduate reffred to in sub rule 
(6) and (7) of rule 23, who has been successful at the special entrance examination referred to in rule 23(2) 
and (12) may at any time after his admission as a student of the sri Lanka Law college upon payment of 
all fees due, be admitted to the Final examination, subject to other relevant conditions as determined by 
the council.”
  (7) in rule 51 thereof, by the substitution for the words “ in rule 23 (1) e” of the words “ in sub rule (3) (b) 
of rule 23”;

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
6A
  (8) by the amendment of rule 75 as follows:-
 (a) by the substitution in sub rule (1) (a) thereof, for the words “a university of ceylon established or 
deemed to have been established by or under any written law and in existence on the day prior to 
the coming into operation of the universities Act,No.l6 of 1978, or of the university of colombo                                
sri Lanka,” of the words “any university established or deemed to be established under the universities 
Act, No. 16 of 1978 where the university admission is determined based on the Z-score or any other 
criteria, adopted by the University Grants Commission for the time being at the General Certificate of 
education (Advanced Level) examination,”;
 (b) by the substitution, in sub rule (2)(a) thereof, for the words “ A graduate of the Faculty of Law of the 
university of sri Lanka or the Open university” of the words “subject to the provisions of sub rules 
(4)(b) and (5) of rule 23, a graduate of the Faculty of Law of the Open university of sri Lanka or the 
Kotelawala Defence University”;
 (c) by the substitution, in sub rule (2)(b) thereof, for the words “the university of sri Lanka or of the 
Open university of sri Lanka ” of the words “any university established or deemed to be established 
under the universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 where the university admission is determined based on 
the Z-score or any other criteria, adopted by the university Grants commission for the time being at 
the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination or of the Open University of Sri 
Lanka or the Kotelawala Defence University”;
 (d) by the substitution in sub rule (2) (c ) thereof, for the words “the university of sri Lanka”of the words 
“any university established or deemed to be established under the universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 
where the university admission is determined based on the Z-score or any other criteria, adopted 
by the University Grants Commission for the time being at the General Certificate of Education            
(Advanced Level) examination”;
 (e) by the repeal of the definition of “University of Sri lanka” and the substitution therefor of the                  
following :
“In these rules-
“Kotelawala Defence University” means the Sir John Kotelawala Defence University established 
under section 2 of the Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No.68 of 1981;
“Open university or Open university of sri Lanka” means the Open university of sri Lanka established 
under section 23 of the universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;
“Qualifying Law Degree (QLD)” means an entry qualification to Bar examinations to enter the Bar 
and practice as an Attorney-At-Law in the relevant jurisdiction.”
  (9) schedule II thereof is hereby amended as follows:-
 (a) by the substitution, in the Alternatives of Form A in lieu of the prescribed Form, for the words “(university 
of colombo/ Open university of sri Lanka)” of the words “ ( Name of the relevant university)”;
 (b) by the substitution, in the Alternatives of Form b in lieu of the prescribed Form, for the words “(university 
of colombo/ Open university of sri Lanka)” of the words “ ( Name of the relevant university)”; 
 (10) by the repeal of schedule IV thereof and the substitution therefor of the following schedule:-
 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
7A
SCHEDuLE IV
 
sTudeNT Fees 2021
entrance examination Fee rs. 6,000.00
Application Fee
(LLb Open university/ university of sri Lanka,
LL.b Foreign & Others)
rs. 1,000.00
Admission Fee rs. 1,500.00
registration Fee - Preliminary
•  Lecture Fees rs. 3,900.00
•  Library Fees rs. 2,600.00
•  documentation Fees rs. 2,600.00
•  utility Fees rs. 5,000.00
•  Confirmation of Educational Certificates 
with relevant Authorities
rs. 2,000.00
•  I.d. card rs. 800.00
•  union Fees rs. 500.00
TOTAL rs. 17, 400.00
registration Fees - Intermediate
• Lecture Fees rs. 6,900.00
• Library Fees rs. 2,600.00
• Utility Fees rs. 5,000.00
• Union Fees rs. 500.00
TOTAL rs. 15,000.00
registration Fees - Final
• Lecture Fees rs. 9,900.00
• Library Fees rs. 2,600.00
• Utility Fees rs. 5,000.00
• Union Fees rs. 500.00
• Examining Deed Book & Court Visit Reports rs. 1,500.00
TOTAL rs. 19,500.00
Late registration Fees rs. 2,000.00
renewal of registration Fees rs. 2,500.00
 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2020
8A
examination Fees per paper rs. 1,000.00
Late Fees - exam registration rs. 1,000.00
Notaries examination Fees per Paper rs. 2,750.00
Exam Withdrawal Fees - Medical Certificates / 
Humanitarian grounds
rs. 500.00
Exam Withdrawal Fees- No medical certificates/ 
Humanitarian grounds
rs. 1,000.00
students should pay the entire examination fee when they apply for the next examination. There will be no 
refund or carrying forward of examination fees. (Only students who have genuine reasons should be exempted 
on medical and humanitarian grounds)
Library membership fee rs. 500.00
Confirmation of Detailed Transcripts rs. 2,000.00
Studentship Confirmation and Visa letter or such 
other letter
rs. 500.00
Practical Training course Fee rs. 6,000.00
2. The basic entry criteria for General entry to the sri Lanka Law college under rule 23(1) and 23(3) as amended by 
these amending rules shall come into effect with the General entrance examination to be held in the year 2021 for entry to 
the year 2022.
3. Transitional Provisions
 (a) A student who had been enrolled or has undertaken a course of study leading to the bachelor of Laws degree 
(LL.b) at a university recognized by the council immediately prior to the date of operation of these amending 
rules shall be allowed to complete the said course of study and seek entry to the sri Lanka Law college 
without sitting for the special entrance examination referred to in rule 23 (2), provided that such student 
complete his bachelor of Laws degree (LL.b) on or before the end of the academic year 2025;
 (b) The benefit provided for in paragraph (a) shall be available upon a student providing proof to the satisfaction 
of the council of such enrollment to a course of study leading to the bachelor of Laws degree (LL.b) at a 
university recognized by the council and not at an institution which undertakes such courses of study for a 
university;
 (c) A graduate from the Open University of Sri Lanka or Kotelawala Defence University who had undertaken 
a course of study leading to the bachelor of Laws degree (LL.b) on or after the date of operation of these 
amending rules shall, without the requirement of two credit passes and one simple pass in terms of rule 23 
(3), be entitled to be admitted to the sri Lanka Law college, provided he has obtained his bachelor of Laws 
degree (LL.b) on or before the end of the academic year 2025 of the sri Lanka Law college ;
4. The exemption referred to in rule 51, shall continue to apply to an applicant who has completed the                                         
barristers- at-Law examination and has been called to the bar in england, scotland or Ireland on the date of coming into 
operation of these amending rules.
01-559
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.