

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"242- 2021 wf.daia;= ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.08'20
No. 2,242– FriDAY , 20 August 2021
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AtteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of September 10th  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th August, 2021.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January 2021
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
309- B 82260 - 353 (08/2021)
Page Page
Laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 310
Note .- (i) Immigrants and Emigrants (Amendment) Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  
Socialist   Republic of Sri Lanka of  30th of July, 2021.
(ii) Unv Foundation (Incorporation)  Bill was  published as a supplement to the  Part II of the  Gazette of the Democratic  Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of  30th of July, 2021.
N. B.–   the list of Jurors of colombo district Jurisdiction areas in the year 2021 has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette in sinhala,
tamil and English languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

310
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.08'20
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 20.08.2021
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.
miscellaneous notices
In  the  hIgh  Court  of  the  Western  ProvIn Ce  (holden  In  Colombo) In the 
exerCIse  of  Its  CIvIl  JurIsd ICtIon
IN the matter of an application for Winding up by Court 
under and in terms of Part XII of the Companies Act, No. 07 
of 2007.
A. T. L. Digital Innovates (Private) Limited
No. 2/1, Inner Bagatelle Road,
Colombo 03. 
..........................Petitioner
NoTICe is hereby given that a Petition for the winding up of the above named company by the High Court of the Western 
Province Holden in Colombo (Commercial High Court) on the 05th day of o ctober 2020 Presented to the said Court by 
the said Company, A. T. L. Digital Innovates (Private) Limited having its resgistered office at No. 2/1, Inner Bagatelle Road, 
Colomb 03, And that the said petition is directed to be heard before the Court on the 02nd day of September 2021; and any 
creditor or Contributory of the said company desirous to support or oppose the making of an order on the said petition may 
appear at the time of hearing in person or by his Attorney-at-Law for that purpose and a copy of the petition will be furnished 
to any creditor or contributory of the said company requiring the same by the undersigned on payment of the prescribed 
charge of the same.
Signed :  Mr Shandeepa Gamaethige, Attorney-at-Law
 No. 222/5, Cotta Road, Colombo 08.
note :- Any Person who intends to appear on the hearing of the said petition must serve on or send by post to the above 
named Mr. Shandeepa Gamathige, Attorney-at-Law notice in writing of his intention to do so. The notice must state the name 
and address of the person, if a firm, the name and address of the firm, and must be signed by the person or firm, or his or their 
Attorney -at-Law (if any) and must be served, or if posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to reach the above named 
not later that 6.00 pm of 01st of September, 2021.
08-269
Case No : CHC 33/2020/Co,
Nature : Winding up
An AcT To IncoRPoRATe The chIThThA ADV AnceD PSychoLoGIcAL STuDIeS oPen 
InSTITuTe of SRI LAnkA
I, Buddhika Pathirana, do hereby give notice under No. 53(1) of the Standing Order of the Parliament of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, that I propose to introduce to Parliament a Bill entitled ''An Act to incorporae the Chiththa 
Advanced Psychological Studies Open Institute of Sri Lanka".
The aim of the Bill is to incorporate the said Foundation which has the following general objects :-
 (
a) to create a proper organization for the psychological consultants;
 ( b) to promote and develop psychological studies and to formulae standards of the psychological consultants and 
issuing the same;
 ( c) to establish psychological consultants in the country aiming at providing necessary psychological treatment 
among the people of the country who are ailing with psychological disorders.
etc.
 
BuDDHIKA PATHIRANA,
 Member of Parliament.
08-378