

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
KUDABUTHGAMUWA SRI PIYADASSINARAMA
VIHARASTHANA PERFORMANCE SOCIETY
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 62]
————————
Presented by Hon. (Mrs.) Sriyani Wijewickrama M. P. for
Digamadulla District on January 05, 2011
(Published in the Gazette on December 06, 2010)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama Viharasthana
Performance Society
A
BILL
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2-2d
2-

<!-- page 2 -->

1Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 005423—850  (01/2011)
Preamble.
Short title.
A N  A CT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  K UDABUTHGAMUWA  SRI
PIYADASSINARAMA  VIHARASTHANA  PERFORMANCE  SOCIETY
(INCORPORATION )
WHEREAS a Society called and known as the
“Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama Viharasthana
Performance Society” has heretofore been formed for the
purpose of effectually carrying out it’s object and transacting
all matters concerned with the said Society according to the
rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Society has heretofore successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be for the public advantage to grant the said
application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Kudabuthgamuwa Sri
Piyadassinarama Viharasthana Performance Society
(Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2011.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
“Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama Viharasthana
Performance Society” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Society”) or shall hereafter be admitted members of the
Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
(herein after referred to as the “Corporation”), with perpetual
succession under the name and style of the
“Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama Viharasthana
Performance Society” and by that name may sue and be sued
in all courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of the
Kudabuthgamuwa
Sri
Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana
Performance
Society.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to ensure the security of the Temple and maintain
and development of the Temple;
(b) to take action to protect the resident Bhikkhus and
to provide their needs;
(c) to give assistance for activities aimed at the
development of religious, social and economic
aspects of the area around the Temple;
(d) while taking action for the stability of the Buddha
Dhamma; to take action for the establishment of a
society based on the Buddhist moral value and
observing the five precepts;
(e) to make provisions for the achievement of all
objectives expected from a Buddhist Temple;
(f) to establish and maintain institutions for the welfare
training and rehabilitation of the destitute, the
disabled, the aged, the sick and displaced persons ;
and
(g) to perform such acts, deeds and things as may be
necessary, conducive or incidental to the attainment
of the aforesaid objects of the Corporation.
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Management consisting of the
President, who should be Chief Incumbebt of the Viharaya
and Vice President, Secretary, Assistant Secretary, treasurer
and five Committee members elected or appointed in
accordance with the rules of the Corporation.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall be the Board of Management of the Society holding
office on the day preceding the date of commencement of
this Act.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to—
(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage
pledge, sell, exchange, or otherwise alienate,
encumber or dispose of any immovable property
for the purpose of the Corporation;
(b) enter into and perform or carry out, whether or
through any officer or agent authorized in that
behalf by the Corporation, all such contracts or
agreements as may be necessary for the attainment
of the objects or the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;
(c) accept gifts, donations and bequests in cash or in
kind;
(d) invest its funds, create and administer Trusts and to
maintain current, deposit and savings accounts in
any bank;
(e) publish or cause to be published books, jounals,
magazines and other literature and establish and
maintain libraries, bookshops and printing presses;
(f) advance or lend and to borrow money for the
purposes of the Corporation in such manner
and upon such secruty as the Corporaiton may
think fit;
(g) appoint, employ, transfer, exercise disciplinary
control over and dismiss officers and servants
requires for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation and to rescribe their terms and
conditions of services; and
(h) generally to do all such acts and things as are
necessary for and incidental or conducive to the
carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting of the members and by votes of
at least two-thirds of the members present and voting to
make such rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this
Act, or any other written law, for the admission, withdrawal
or expulsion of members, election of the office bearers and
the Board of Management and otherwise generally, for the
management of the affairs of the Corporation and the
attainment of its objects including rules providing for the
filling of any vacancy in the Board of  Management of the
Corporation. Such rules when made may, at a like meeting
and in like manner be altered, added to, amended or
rescinded.
(2) Any rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall to be
deemed to be the rules of the Corporation made under this
Section in so far they are not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act or any other written law.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all times  be
subject to the rules for the time being of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary, disposition,
transfer, donation,  contributions or fees shall be deposited
in the name of the Corporation in one or more Banks as may
be determined by the Board of Management.
(2) The Corporation may establish any depreciation fund,
reserve or sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development and improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in exercising
and discharging its’ powers and functions shall be paid out
of the fund.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
8. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and the Secretary of the Corporation who shall
sign their names to the instrument in token of their presence
and such  signing shall be independent of signing  of any
person as a witness.
9. (a) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(b) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(c) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
 In this connection “Q ualified A uditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an A ccountant issued by
such  Institute ; or
(b) a form of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by such
Institutes.
10. No perosn shall be liable in any suit or other legal
proceedings for any Act done, or purporting to be done, in
good faith in pursuance of the powers conferred by or under
this Act, or for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of
this Act.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Audit and
Accounts.
Indemnity
for acts done
in good faith.
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation)
5
11. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or  of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by form, or under
them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
 Saving of
the rights of
the Republic
and others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kudabuthgamuwa Sri Piyadassinarama
Viharasthana Performance Society (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.