

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
801
801
wxl 1"757 - 2012 uehs 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'05'04
No. 1,757 – FRIDAY , MAY 04, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 804
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 809
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 11th May, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th  April,
2012.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Parts I-III and III of the Gazette No. 1,756 of 27.04.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
802
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
803
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
804
Posts – Vacant
SRI   LANKA  REGULAR  AIR   FORCE
Airmen/AirWomen Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force for Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given below :-
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required  :–
(1)  Aeronautical Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Frame Mechanic (Male)
(b) Aero Engine Mechanic (Male)
(c) Aero Electrical and Instrument Mechanic (Male)
(d) Safety Equipment Assistant (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essential.
(2) General Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Photographer (Male)
(b) Air Craft Welder Assistant (Male)
(c) Armament Mechanic (Male)
(d) General Mechanic (Male)
(e) Motor Transport Mechanic (Male)
(f) Surface Tech Assistant (Male)
(g) Copper Smith and Sheet Metal Workers (Male)
(h) Carpenter Mechanic (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/Science will be an added qualification.
(3) Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Radio (Male)
(b) Telegraph Mechanic (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages, Mathematics and
Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/Science is essential.
(c) Telephonist (Male/Female)
(d) Computer Technician (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
(5) Medical Trades :
(a) Nursing Assistant (Male/Female)
(b) Dental Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary pass in English language and credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil language,
Mathematics Science and one other subject. Having three passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination from Science
Stream in one sitting (Biology/Combine Mathematics/Chemistry/Physics or Agriculture) will be an added
advantage for selection and qualification for advance training under Ministry of Health Services.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
805
(6) Logistics Trades :
(a) Supplier (Male/Female)
(b) Refueller (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass  in Sinhala/Tamil language and a credit in Mathematics/
Science/Business and Studies.
(c) Catering Assistant (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.
(d) Mess stewards (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.
Candidates who have a credit pass in English, fluent in English and experience as a Cabin Assistant with
pleasing personality will be enlisted as a Cabin Assistant.
(e) Uniform Out Fitter (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language. Operating of JUKI machine
(Over lock, Button Hole, Button Attached, Double Needle, Bar Tack), cutting and designing of garments
without blocks and technical knowledge on JUKI machine will be an added qualification.
(7) Administration Trades :
(a) Administration Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages and a credit in
Mathematics/Science/Business and Account Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package)
will be an added qualification.
(b) Accounts Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages and a credit in
Mathematics/Business and Account Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will be an
added qualification.
(8) Operations Trades :
(a) Operations Air (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language and a credit in English language.
(b) Fire Fighter (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
(c) Operation Grounds (Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
806
(9) Police Trades :
(a) Police (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional
subjects not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English languages.
(b) Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfil the following General Conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force :
(1) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(2) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 years (Male) ;
Not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years (female) as at 31st July, 2012 ;
(3) Height : Male - 5 feet 5 inches and above ;
Female - 5 feet 3 inches and above ;
(4) Weight : -19<BMI<25
BMI = Weight (kg)
Height2 (m)
(5) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(6) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(7) Civil Status :  Candidates must be unmarried. (Airmen is not allowed to marry until the completion of
two years from the date of enlistment and until one year after the completion of the Basic
Trade Training Course and which ever is later).
2. Candidates who do not possess the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 "a" and "b"
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height, weight  and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height, weight and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered even
though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/she possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from
the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or
abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.– Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of Aircraftman/Aircraftwomen in the
Regular Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a further
04 years in the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend for further
service on completion of eight years of service on the discretion of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
6. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government
of Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay rate.– The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - Rs. 168,000 - 6 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum.
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 170,880 - 4 x 1,440 - 19 x 1,800 - Rs. 210,840 per annum.
Corporal - Rs. 175,200 - 1 x 1,440 - 10 x 1,800 - 9 x 2520 -Rs. 217,320 per annum.
Sergeant - Rs. 180,240 - 3 x 1,800 - 9 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum.
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 183,120 - 10 x 2,520 - 3 x 3,480 - Rs. 218,760 per annum.
Warrant Officer - Rs. 190,680 - 07x2,520 -17x3,480 - Rs. 267,480 per annum.
Master Warrant Officer-Rs. 211,800-13x3480 - Rs.257,040 per annum
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated pay scale applicable to Airmen. Increments in promotions will
be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay sc ale.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
807
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances - Rs. 5,850 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance - Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 4,500 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance - 1 Rs. 2,400 per month  (Rs. 80 will be paid for each working day).
(5) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(6) Special allowance - II 15% of consolidated salary.
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 12,235.20 per month for living out Airmen (Free messing for living - in Airmen).
(8) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(9) Travelling.– Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (For Airmen/Airwomen/wife/husband and Children as
applicable). One set of railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in Airmen.
(10) Disturbance allowance.– When proceeding on duty outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).
(11) Qualification pay.– For personnel who have qualified in special courses or possess qualifications, which are of
special value to the Service. (Up to maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(12) Good Conduct Badge pay .– Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(13) Uniform upkeep allowances Rs. 170 per month.
(14) Re-engagement pay.– Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(15) Medical facilities.– Provided through Air Force expense for Airmen/Airwomen and their married families.
(16) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B. buses for living-out Airmen/Airwomen within a radius of
30 miles (48 km).
(17) Following Rent allowance are payable to married Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government married
quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(18) Instructional pay – (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(19) Other allowance.– (Separation and overseas etc.) will be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(20) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from
time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rate of
contributions are as per Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
8. Instructions to Applicants :-
(a) Applications should be submitted *in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the application should be
filled with much details as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post addressed to "Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training School, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to reach there not later than 1200 noon
on 11th May, 2012. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked "Application for Regular Airmen/
Airwomen" on the top left corner. Applications received at Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training School, Ekala,
Kotugoda after closing date and time and not in accordance with the requirements of this notification and not in
registered post will not be considered.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so :–
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth. (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications required.
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical training and or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution will be
an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the principal of the last school attended and
the other from the responsible person who is known of the applicant for more than two years or from the
present employer (If employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadetting etc.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
808
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
9. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air
Force Recruiting Board. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training School, Ekala, such candidates will be i nformed
individually of the date time and place.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who
do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates wil l be
enlisted without the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board. The selected Computer Technician Candidates will be call for the Skill Tests. The required number of candidates per trade
will be selected according to merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt
to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
H. D. Abeywickrama,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR AIRMAN/AIRWOMAN IN THE SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number :––––––––––.
03. Applied Trade :––––––––––.
04. Postal Address :––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :––––––––––.
06. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :––––––––––.
07. District :––––––––––.
08. Electorate :––––––––––.
09. G. S. Division :––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number :––––––––––.
11. Date of Birth :––––––––––.
12. Married or Single :––––––––––.
13. Gender  :––––––––––.
14. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :––––––––––.
15. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
809
16. G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
17. Any special qualifications for the post (Eg.- Technical, Training and Experience etc.) :––––––––––.
18. Details of special achievements in sports :––––––––––.
19. Other achievements of not at school or with outside organizations :––––––––––.
20. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police give details :––––––––––.
21. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military Court ? If so, give details :––––––––––.
22. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
23. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
05–38
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
CEYLON - GERMAN  TECHNICAL  TRAINING
INSTITUTE – MORATUW A
(Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development)
Admission to Full time courses – 2012
(Under the National Apprenticeship Scheme)
APPLICATIONS are invited for admission of Male and Female
Trainees for the year 2012.
Minimum Qualifications required are as follows :–
01. (a) Age.– Between 16 - 22 years as at 31.03.2012.
(b) Education.– Passed in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination including Sinhala/Tamil Language (Medium
of Instruction) and Mathematics in one sitting.
Applicants who have special skills  :
Candidates who has placed among first three places in a
Provincial Level competition or obtained a merit or above
certificate by a National Competition of Sri Lanka
Inventors Commission in Electrical/Electronic/
Mechanical field and candidates who have completed
the above Section (b) qualifications with not less than
two attempts are also qualified to sit for the examination.
Note.– Candidates following full time courses at National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA)
and who are bonded for period of 03 years or more are
not eligible to apply for these full time courses.
02. Course Medium. – All courses are conducting in Sinhala
medium. Only Automobile Course will be conducting in Tamil
medium.
03. Entrance Examination. – Applicants who possess the
requisite minimum qualifications will be allowed to sit the admission
test provided examination fees referred to in Column 4 below have
been paid.
(a) Medium.– Sinhala and Tamil.
(b) Examination Centers .– A written examination for
admission will be conducted at Centers in Colombo,
Kandy, Galle, Badulla, Anuradhapura, Trincomalee and
Jaffna as indicated in the application form given below.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
810
kindly note that if an adequate number of candidates are
not available at particular centers then the management
reserve the right to change the centers by accommodating
such applications at the nearest center.
Examination Subjects.– The above  Test will be based on
Mathematics, General knowledge, General Intelligence
and Technical Drawing.
04. Examination Fees. – Applicants should pay Rupees Four
Hundred only (Rs. 400) as examination fees. Paying voucher of the
Bank should be attached to the application. The application should
be forwarded together with the paying voucher of the Bank.
Payment.– The payment can be made to the any Bank of Ceylon
Branch to the Accountant, Ceylon German Technical Training
Institute which credit to the Account Number 681490 maintained
at Moratuwa Branch.
Paying vouchers that are defaced or erased will not be accepted.
Application which do not contain a credit voucher to the value will
be rejected. Examination fees will not be refunded to candidates
those who are not appearing for the examination or on rejection of
their applications for any other reason.
05. Primary Selection. – Primary selection of candidates for
admission will be merit based on the written examination and those
who obtain the required highest marks will be summoned for an
interview for the final selection. Cut-off mark for less privileged
provinces would be decided by the Management of CGTTI. (Less
privileged provinces are decided according to Sri Lanka Examination
Department.)
06. Final Selection .– Those who obtained highest marks from
aptitude test and interview would be considered for final selection.
40% marks are allocated for Aptitude Test and 60% for the
interview. Extra curricular activities are specially considered.
The selected candidates will have to pass a medical examination
and those who fail the medical test will be discontinued.
07. Training Courses :
Automobile - 04 years
Millwright/Fitter - 04 years
Power Electrical - 03 1/2 years
Air-con. and Ref. - 03 1/2 years
Tool Machinery - 03 1/2 years
Auto electrical - 03 years
Diesel Mechanics - 03 years
Welding - 03 years
Motor vehicle body repairer and painter - 03 years
Selected candidates will be allowed to follow the under mentioned
courses of training depending on the aptitude they show in the test
conducted after 01st year of basic training.
08. Bond to be signed.– All selected candidates are required to
enter in to a bond to under go full time training at CGTTI for
periods ranging from 04, 03 1/2, 03 years respectively in their
allocated trades and enter in to agreement with the National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority (NAITA) as per their
requirements. In addition they have to serve Sri Lanka Transport
Board for two years after successful completion of their training if
necessary.
09. Applications.– The application should be prepared as per
specimen form given below (A4 size) and photo copies following
certificates should also be attached with the application.
(a) Birth Certificate ;
(b) Educational Certificates ;
(c) Applicants who apply under special skills should forward
certificate of Provincial/National level competition by
Sri Lanka Inventors Commission.
The envelope in which application is enclosed should be marked,
"Recruitment of Apprentice - 2012" on the top left-hand corner.
Application forms could be down-loaded via the institute web site
: (www.cgtti.slt.lk)
10. Closing date of applications.– Application should be send to
The Manager – Human Resourse and Administration Ceylon
German Technical Training Institute, No. 582, Galle Road, Mount
Lavinia, by registered post on or before 20th June, 2012.
Manager,
Human Resourse and Administration.
Ceylon German Technical Training Institute,
No. 582, Galle Road,
Mount Lavinia (Angulana Junction),
  Telephone No. : 011-2605625.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
A
PPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO FULL-TIME COURSE – 2012
(Under the National Apprenticeship)
THE CEYLON GERMAN TECHNICAL TRAINING INSTITUTE - MORATUWA
1. ( a) Full Name :––––––––––.
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
2. ( a) Postal Address :––––––––––.
(b) District :––––––––––.
(c) Province :––––––––––.
3. ( a) Date of Birth :––––––––––.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
811
(b) Age as at 31.03.2012 :
Years :––––––––, Months :––––––––, Days :––––––––.
(c) Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
(d) NIC No. :––––––––––.
4. Sex : Male/Female :––––––––––.
5. Educational Qualifications : Subject at the G . C. E. (O/L) should be indicated :
(Only for Special skills applicants)
First Year
Year :–– Index No. :–– Second Year  :–– Index No. :––
Subjects : Grade : Subjects : Grade :
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– –––––––––––––– ––––––––––––––
6. Specify the field and year of issue of the certificate (Province/National) issued by the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission, if t he
candidate is applying under the special skills category :––––––––––.
7. ( a) Medium in which the candidate wishes to sit the admission test :––––––––––.
(b) Center at which the candidate wishes to sit the Admission test :––––––––––.
(Colombo, Kandy, Galle, Anuradhapura, Badulla and Trincomalee)
8. (i) Bank of Ceylon Branch and where payment was made :––––––––––.
(Valid copy of the paying in voucher to Rs. 400 is attached herewith)
(ii) Date of Payment :––––––––––.
I hereby certify that the above particulars furnished by me are true and accurate, if any particulars contained here are found to
be false or incorrect, liable for disqualification/dismissal before or after selection.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
05–30
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
INSTITUTE  OF  ENGINEERING  TECHNOLOGY
(Former Technician Training Institute) - Katunayake
RECRUITMENT OF SPECIAL APPRENTICES IN ENGINEERING FOR NA TIONAL
DIPLOMA IN ENGINEERING SCIENCES (NDES) COURSE 2012 BATCH
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka to recruit
Special Apprentices in Engineering for the 2012 batch in respect of
the above course of studies at the Institute of Engineering
Technology (IET), Katunayake (Former Technician Training
Institute).
1. Educational Qualifications for entry.— Candidates with
qualifications mentioned below are eligible to apply.
1.1 A Pass at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in 06 subjects in
one sitting including four (04) credit passes for
Mathematics, Science, Language (Sinhala/Tamil) and
English ;
and
1.2 Passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) in Combined Mathematics,
Physics and Chemistry in one sitting.
2. Age.— Between 18 and 25 years as at 01.11.2012.
3. Duration and Course Schedule.— This is a four year course,
where the 24 month academic instruction programme is sandwiched
with the 24 month Industrial Training as given below :–

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
812
Basic Instruction Programme at IET - 12 months
Basic Industrial Training in Industry - 06 months
General Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
General Industrial Training in Industry - 12 months
Specialized Instruction Programme at IET - 06 months
Specialized Industrial Training in Industry - 06 months
Instruction Programmes consist of Theoretical Instructions and
course works conducted at Institute of Engineering Technology.
Industrial Training Programmes are conducted at recognized
Industrial  Establishments.
An English course will be conducted during the course period.
Participation is compulsory for all the selected apprentices for the
English Course.
4. Courses conducted in the IET are as follows :
A. Civil Engineering Sector :
1. Building and Structural Engineering
2. Highway and Railway Engineering
3. Water Engineering
4. Environmental Enginering
B. Electrical Engineering Sector :
5. Electronics and Communication Systems
Engineering.
6. Electrical Power Engineering.
7. Industrial Electrical and Control Systems
Engineering.
C. Mechanical Engineering Sector :
8. Industrial Engineering
9. Mechatornic Engineering
10. Automotive Engineering
11. Marine Engineering
(a) "The Quality Management System of
Marine Engineering (No. 11) Course of IET
is in accordance with the requirements of
ISO 9001 – 2008.
(b) In respect of Marine Engineering Course,
the Institute is engaged in providing academic
instructions and industrial training
Programmes to meet the mandatory
requirements for knowledge, understanding
and proficiency in Marine Engineering at
the operational level related with STCW 95,
including its amendments and model course
7.04 of International Maritime Organization
(IMO) coverage.
5. Medium of Instruction.—  All academic programmes are
conducted in English.
6. Contract of Apprenticeship :
6.1 Each selected candidate is required to enter into a cantract
with the training establishment, which casts, mutual
obligations on both the Training Establishment and the
Apprentice. At the time of registration an apprentice
should deposit a sum of Rs. 5,000 refundable at the
completion of the course.
The deposit of the students, leaving the programme during
the period of course period will not be refunded.
6.2 Sumurdhi beneficiaries are exempted from the refundable
deposit, on submission of original Sumurdhi card with a
certified letter from Grama Sevaka approved by
Divisional Secretary.
6.3 All selected students will have to make a compulsory
payment of Rs. 1,000 as a non refundable library
development fund.
6.4 There is no guarantee of employment at the end of the
training period.
6.5 All the students registered for the above courses should
maintain a minimum requirement of 80% attendance for
each subject during the course period. Those who fail to
meet this requirement, are not allowed to sit for the
examinations and evaluations and they have to leave the
course.
7. Award of Certificates.—  National Diploma in Engineering
Sciences Certificate will be awarded on successful completion of all
examinations, evaluations and on clearance of all obligations.
8. Selection Criteria :
8.1 All applicants who have the minimum entry qualifications
as stated in para 1 and within the age limit mentioned in
para 2 above would be eligible. Selections will be done as
given below.
8.2 Those candidates who are eligible as per 8.1 will be
required to sit for a written aptitude test in English
medium. (Eligible candidates will be informed in advance).
8.3 All applicants are selected, based on the written test,
interview and the "Z" score.
8.4 Those who are selected for Marine Engineering Course
will have to appear for a medical test at their own expense
prior to registration.
8.5 Field selection will be given, based on the semester - I
examination of BIP programme after six months and the
choice of the student.
9. Applications :
9.1 Applications and additional information can be obtained
from IET web site (
www.iet.edu.lk)

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
813
9.2 Application forms could be collected from the Registrar,
Institute of Engineering Technology, Temple Road,
Katunayake on payment of Rs. 150 in cash, or by post
by sending a money order for Rs. 150 with a self-addressed
stamped envelope (size 9"x4") to Registrar, Institute of
Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake up
to 31st May, 2012. The above Money Orders should be
drawn in favour of the Accountant, Institute of Engineering
Technology, payable at Katunayake Post Office.
(Telephone Nos. : 011-2252833, 011-2252834).
9.3 Application forms could be obtained from the following
Offices up to 31st May, 2012 on payment of Rs. 150 in
cash :–
(i) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura
Mawatha, Welikada, Rajagiriya (Telephone :
011-2863680, 011-2867435) ;
(ii) Apprenticeship Training Institute, No. 581, Galle
Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa (Telephone :
011-2647393) ;
(iii) Automobile Engineering Training Institute,
No. 07, Dr. Danister De Silva Mawatha,
Orugodawatta, Wellampitiya (Telephone :
011-2572977, 011-2532182) ;
(iv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 4/10, Malwatta Road,
Badulupitiya, Badulla (Telephone : 055-2230644) ;
(v) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, School Lane, New Town, Ratnapura
(Telephone : 045-2228667) ;
(vi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 27A, Open University Road, Nupe,
Matara  (Telephone : 041-2226958) ;
(vii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 108/2B, Thiwankabodhi Mawatha,
Kandy (Telephone : 081-2201918) ;
(viii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Airport Road, Anuradhapura
(Telephone : 025-2223178) ;
(ix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa,
Kurunegala (Telephone : 037-2223789) ;
(x) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 07, Kovil Road, Jaffna (Telephone :
021-2222383) ;
(xi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 06, G . S. Lane, Kalmunaikudi 13,
Kalmunai (Telephone : 067-2229357) ;
(xii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 242, Havelock Road, Colombo 05
(Telephone :  011-2597671/2) ;
(xiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Telecommunication and Computer
Training Centre, Beruwala (Telephone :
034-2279710) ;
(xiv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 56, Ananda Mawatha, Gampaha
(Telephone : 033-2227501) ;
(xv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Medagama Road, Molawatte,
Madampe (Telephone : 032-2248250) ;
(xvi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, A/6, Mahaweli Quarters, New Town,
Polonnaruwa (Telephone : 027-2223023) ;
(xvii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Registrar Office, Monaragala
(Telephone : 055-2276504) ;
(xviii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 160/A, Kandy Road, Nuwara Eliya
(Telephone : 052-2223702) ;
(xix) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 11, Temple Road, Mandandawala,
Matale (Telephone : 066-2223173) ;
(xx) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 440, Meepitiya, Kandy Road,
Kegalle (Telephone :  035-2223127) ;
(xxi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Wakwella Road, Julgaha, Galle
(Telephone : 091-223466) ;
(xxii)National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 36, Mihindu Mawatha, Tangalle
(Telephone : 047-2241512) ;
(xxiii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Thunukkai, Mullaitivu (Telephone :
021-3734849) ;
(xxiv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, Jaffna Road, Nandapuram, Kilinochchi
(Telephone : 034-3942824) ;

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
814
(xxv) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 57, Post Office Road, Trincomalee
(Telephone :  026-2226569) ;
(xxvi) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 16/1/1, New Kalmuni Road,
Batticaloa (Telephone : 065-2228130) ;
(xxvii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 26/2, Pitaraum Road,
Sinthamanipillear Kovil, Vavuniya (Telephone :
024-2224679) ;
(xviii) National Apprentice and Industrial Training
Authority, No. 25, Main Road, Mannar
(Telephone : 034-3942823).
9.4 All applicants should pay a non refundable examination
fee of Rs. 500 as per the details of (9.5) to any Branch of
People's Bank and paying slip need to be attached to the
application, when forwarding the application.
9.5 The Pay-in-Slip needs to be duly perfected with the
following :
(i) Branch Code and Account No. 276-1-001-2-
4535909 ;
(ii) Credit Instruction  : To the credit of National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority
Collection Account No. 276-1-001-2-4535909 at
People's Bank, Katunayake ;
(iii) Name and the Address of the Applicant.
9.6 Students obtaining applications from IET website, have
to pay Rs. 650 as the examination fee.
9.7 Duly filled application form, should be sent under
registered cover to reach the "Director/Principal, Institute
of Engineering Technology, Temple Road, Katunayake"
along with the Pay-in-Slip duly signed by an Authorized
Officer of the Bank, on or before 31st May, 2012. Left
hand corner of the envelope "Recruitment of Special
Apprentices – 2012" should be mentioned in the left
hand corner. Late application or applications forwarded
by hand will not be accepted.
9.8 Those who have followed or are following Diploma or
Degree level full time courses of studies in a Government
Technical Institute or University are not eligible to apply.
9.9 Originals or copies of certificates should not be sent along
with the application.
9.10 Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
10. The Institute of Engineering Technology (IET) will not
consider or be responsible for any delay or loss of applications in
the mail. Therefore, the candidates are requested to post their
applications well ahead in time to avoid delays.
Chairman.  
National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority,
No. 971, Sri Jayawardenapura Mawatha,
Welikada,
Rajagiriya.
05-55
–––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  III  AND  II  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA
LIBRARIANS' SERVICE - 2010
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in Class III and II
of Sri Lanka Librarians' Service will be held in Colombo in the
Month of August 2012 as provided for in paragraphs 08 of the Sri
Lanka Librarians' Service Minute published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1620/22 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka dated 24.09.2009.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
- General of Examinations and the candidates are bound
by the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of the Gazette Notification. Candidates
will be liable to any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for breach of
these rules.
03. The specimen form of application for this examination is
published at the end of this notice. Candidates should prepare their
own applications correctly and legibly in accordance with the
specimen form of application and send through the respective Heads
of Departments by registered post to reach the Commissioner-
General of Examinations, Department of Examinations, Organization
and Foreign Examination Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or
before 05th of June 2012. The name of the examination and the
relevant grade should be indicated at the top left-hand corner of the
envelope in which the application is enclosed. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
04. Identity Cards. - Candidates should prove their identity to
the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall for each
subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be accepted
for this purpose :–
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
of the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid Passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any
of the above mentioned documents is liable to be cancelled on the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
815
05. Applications.– Applications should be prepared using both
sides of a paper of A4 size in such a way that Nos. 1.0 to 5.0
appear on the 1st page whilst the Nos. 6.0 to 9.0 appear on the 2nd
page. The application could be typewritten but it should be filled
in correctly and legibly by candidate's own handwriting.
Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have
not been perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form. Please indicate the title of the examination
appearing the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate
to make sure that the application form perfected by him/herself
complies with the specimen given in the examination notice.
Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not
pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings, candidates
should pay Rs.175 for the whole examination, and Rs.90 for one
subject. The cash receipt obtained from any post office by making
the payment to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the
Commissioner General of Examinations, should be affixed in the
due place of the application. The fee will not be refunded under any
circumstance and will not be transferred in respect of any other
examination. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the cash receipt
with the candidate.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards along with copies of the time table to all candidates
who have paid the relevant fees, whose applications have been
filled properly and received on or before the closing date. Candidates
appearing for the examination should get their signatures on the
admission cards attested in advance and produce to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will
not be permitted to sit the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card
is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the notification. It would be advisable to keep
the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e. certified photocopies of the application form
and the receipt kept at your possession, receipt of registration and,
in case of applicants outside Colombo, letter of request, furnishing
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
08. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium of the entry examination to the relevant service or
in the official language. Candidates who entered the service without
a competitive Examination should answer both papers in the language
midium of their education or in the official language. It whould not
be allowed to change the language medium of examination indicated
in the application subsequently.
09. The officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions. However, for a pass, officers should obtain at
least 40% of the total marks for each subject.
10. Release of the Results of the Examination .– The
Commissioner- General of Examinations will issue the results to
the Director General of Combined Services. The list of names of
officers who have passed the Examination will be published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
11. Scheme of Examination :
11.1 Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in class III
of the Librarians' Service :
01. General Administration and Financial Procedure.–
Subject No. 01 (100 Marks)
* Part I - General Administration - Duration - 1 1/2
Hours (50 Marks).
(a) Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission
published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated
20.02.2009 and chapters V to VIII and XII,
XIV , XXIV , XXVII, XXVIII of the
Establishment Code are included.
(b) Sri Lanka Library Association (Incorperation)
Act, No. 20 of 1974 ; and
Sri Lanka Library Association (Amendment)
Act, No. 07 of 2004.
* Part II - Financial Procedure - Duration 1 1/2Hours
- (50 marks).
(a) Financial Regulations - Part I (excluding
Chapter X)
Accounts work performed by librarians and
the relevant Regulations.
02. Library Organization - Duration 03 hours - Subject
No. 02 (100 Marks).
(a) Provincial Library Ordinance,
(b) Library Committees,
(c) Preservation of Library Goods,
(d) Readers' Education and Public Relations,
(e) Categories of Libraries and Services,
(f) Fundamentals and that should be considered in
Library Management,
(g) Extension services that can be implemented in a
library.
N. B.– Candidates should obtain 40% of marks for
each subject to pass this examination.
11.2 Efficiency Bar Examination for the Officers in
Grade II of the Librarians' Service :

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
816
01. General Administration and Financial
Procedure - Subject No. 03 (100 marks).
(a) Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka.
(b) Procedural Rules of Public Service
Commission published in the Gazette
Extraordinary dated 20.02.2009 and
Chapters V to VII and XII, XIV , XXIV ,
XXVII, XXVIII of the Establishment Code
are included.
(c) National Archives Act, No. 48 of 1973 and
National Archives (Amendment) Act, No.
30 of 1981.
(d) Part III of Science and Technology
Department Act, 11 of 1994.
(e) National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998.
(f) Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003.
* Part II - Financial Procedure - Duration - 1 1/
2 hours - (50 marks).
(a) Financial Regulation – Part I
Account were performed by libraries and
relevant Regulation.
02. Library Organization - Duration 03 hours - Subject
No. 04 (100 Marks) :–
(a) Library building and equipment,
(b) Benefits of government  publications and the
method of using them,
(c) Regional and International organization in the
library field,
(d) Strategies in Library  Management,
(e) Financial Management,
(f) Time Management,
(g) Human Resource Managment,
(h) Information Technology in Sri Lanka,
(i) Networks and computerized systems of
Libraries.
N. B.– Candidates should obtain 40% of marks for each
subject to pass this Examination.
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARA THNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Combined Services Division,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
17th of April 2012.
(For Office use only)
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
GRADE III AND II OF THE SRI LANKA LIBRARIANS'
SERVICE - 2009
Medium of Language in which you are appearing for the exam
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss. :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
1.3 Last Name with Initials :–––––––––.
(in Block Capitals, e.g. SILV A, A. B.)
2.0 Place of work and Address :
2.1 Name of the Ministry/Department/Office :–––––––––.
2.2 Office address :–––––––––.
(Admission cards will be sent by post to this address)
3.0 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant Number in the Cage)
4.0 Indicate ''X" opposite the Efficiency Bar Examination you are
applying for in the Sri Lanka Librarians' Service.
4.1  Grade III of the Librarians's Service
4.2  Grade II of the Librarians' Service
4.3  Subject offering and respective Subjects Numbers :
Subject Subject No.
5.0 5.1 National Identity Card No. :
5.2 Date of Birth :
Date :           Month :         Year :
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :––––––––––.
6.2 Number of the Appointment Letter :––––––––––.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time? :––––.
7.2 If not, give following particulars of the affixed cash receipt,
received from any post office at the time of paying
examination fees :
No :––––––––––. Amount :––––––––––.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
817
Date :––––––––––.
Office issued :––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(keep to photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the medium indicated above,
and that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that,
(i) This candidate is employed in this department as an officer
in Grade II/III of the Librarians Service
(ii) The particulars furnished above are correct.
(iii) His/her work and conduct have been satisfactory
throughout: and he/she has not been subjected to any form
of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the
past 5 year period ; and
(iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
(v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the
receipt has been affixed. (Delete if inapplicable)
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and
Official Stamp.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
05–52                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                      
COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT
OF  ASSISTANT  DIRECTORS  FOR  THE
DEPARTMENT  OF  COMMERCE  UNDER  THE
MINISTRY  OF  INDUSTRY  AND  COMMERCE – 2012
APPLICA TIONS are hereby invited for the post of Assistant
Director of Commerce in the Department of Commerce coming
under the purview of the Ministry of Industry and Commerce. The
applications prepared as per the specimen application form given
at the end of this Gazette notification should be sent under registered
post to reach “the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, Organizations and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla” on or before
01.06.2012.
01. Note.- The requests made regarding the applications received
late or those lost in the post will not be considered.
02. Terms of Engagement .– This post is permanent and
pensionable, which contributions should be made to the Widows/
Widowers and Orphans’ Pension Fund.
03. Salary Scale .- The monthly salary scale attached to this
post as per the Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006 –
SL 1/2006 is Rs. 22,935-10 x 645-8 x 790 – 17 x 1050 – Rs. 53,555.
Efficiency Bars. – There are two efficiency bar examinations.
The first efficiency bar examination should be passed within 3
years from the date of appointment and the second efficiency bar
examination should be passed within 7 years from the date of
appointment. The efficiency bar examinations will not be exempted
due to the completion of 45 years of age. A written examination will
be held by the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration
(SLIDA) for the first efficiency bar examination, details of which
are given in the Annex No. 01.
In order to exempt from the second efficiency bar examination,
candidate should have obtained a Postgraduate Degree or a
Postgraduate Diploma in Economics, Financial Business
Administration or International Trade from a recognized university
or should have successfully completed a course offering above
subjects with expertise training expecting a basic degree as a
qualification to enroll for a course offered by the World Trade
Organization (WTO).
04.  Service Abroad .– The officers will be appointed to serve
abroad from time to time and will be entitled to receive an allowance
approved by the government on such occasions.
05. Educational Qualifications .– The candidates should have
the following qualifications :
(i) A first or second class (Hons) degree in Economics or
Commerce or Business Administration or Public
Administration or a first or second class general degree
with Economics or Commerce as subjects from a
recognized university ; or
(ii) A Masters Degree or a Ph.D in Economics or Commerce
or Business Administration or Public Administration
from a recognized university or;
(iii) A degree from a recognized university with professional
qualification on law equivalent to Attorney-at-law of
the Law College of Sri Lanka or of any other recognized
institution and at least 3 years of experience in law,
administration or commercial activities or;
(iv) A degree from a recognized university with professional
qualification in Accountancy equivalent to the
membership of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
of Sri Lanka or of any other recognized institution and

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
818
should have a minimum of 03 years of experience in
law, administration or commercial activities.
Note .- The candidates should have fulfilled all the
qualifications on the closing date of applications.
06. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 18 years and not more
than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications. The
maximum age limit does not apply to those who are presently
serving in the Government or Provincial Government Service.
07. Recruitment Procedure:- A written examination will be held
in Colombo for those who have fulfilled the basic qualifications, by
the Commissioner General of Examinations in terms of the
examination procedure and the syllabus. The interview is limited to
verify the qualifications and certificates. The final decision with
regard to conducting the examination and issuance of results will be
that of the Commissioner General of Examination.
Examination Procedure :-
1. Intelligence Test : Marks - 100 - 02 hrs
2. General Paper (Commerce and Economics) :
Marks - 100 - 02 hrs
3. English : Marks - 100 - 02 hrs
Syllabus :
Intelligence Test.– Consists of multiple questions to determine
the candidate’s ability of logical reasoning, analytical thinking and
decision making.
General Paper .– (Commerce and Economics) Consists of
questions to examine the candidate’s knowledge on commercial and
economic background of Sri Lanka and overseas.
English.– Consists of questions to determine the candidate’s
knowledge in grammar, vocabulary and comprehension of English
language.
08. (i) Application form should be prepared in the candidate’s
medium of appearing for the examination using 
“A4 size sheets
including sections 01 to 08 in the first page and the remaining
sections in the second and third pages”.  All entries in the application
have to be made in the applicant’s own hand-writing.
(ii) Receipt of application will not be acknowledged.
(iii) While applications not prepared in accordance with the
specimen application and all incomplete applications will be rejected
without any notification to the applicant, it will be advisable for
the applicants to retain a photocopy of their applications. Further,
the applicants should ensure that completed applications comply
with the specimen application appeared in the relevant Gazette
notification. All applications, which do not comply with the
specimen application will be rejected.
(iv) A newspaper advertisement will be published as soon as
admission cards have been posted to those applicants whose duly
perfected application forms were received on or prior to the closing
date. It is advisable for applicants to be on alert / aware of such
advertisement.  Candidates who do not receive their admission
cards at least 07 days before the date of examination should, without
delay, inquire from the Commissioner General of Examinations,
Department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, Organizations and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla, and submit the
following details.
(a) Name of the examination  :–––––––––.
(b) Full Name of the Applicant :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(c) Date, Registered Number and the Post office where the
application was posted :–––––––––.
The name of the examination should be indicated in English as
well as the language in which the applicant is sitting for the
examination.
09. Examination fees. - The examination fee is Rs.1,000. The
receipt obtained by paying the above examination fee to be credited
to the income head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations at any Divisional Secretariat of the island should be
properly affixed in the relevant space provided in the application
form and the details of the receipt should also be included. Keeping
a photocopy of the receipt will be useful. The examination fees
once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other examination
or refunded under any circumstances.
10. Examination :-
(i) The date of examination will be notified later.
(ii) The Public Service Commission reserves the rights to
postpone or cancel the examination.
11. The candidates who are already in the public service should
forward their application forms through the respective Head of the
Department. However, the candidate is entitled to directly
acknowledge the Commissioner General of Examinations, the date
on which the application form is forwarded on or before the closing
date of applications.
12. Application or any other related document should be
forwarded only to the Commissioner General of Examinations and
should not be forwarded to the personal name of any officer of the
Department of Examinations.
13. Attention is drawn towards the rules and general conditions
regarding the appointments for the posts in the government service
published at the beginning of para (ii) of the Section (i) of this
Gazette.
14. Admission to the Examination :-
(a)  Admission cards will be issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations to all the candidates whose
applications were received and those who have fulfilled
the basic qualifications. The candidate who sits for the
examination should produce the attested admission card

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
819
to the supervisor in the prescribed examination hall. Any
candidate who fails to produce the admission card will
not be allowed to sit for the examination.
 (b) All the candidates should sit for the examination only in
the prescribed examination hall. The admission card of
each candidate relevant to the prescribed examination hall
should be handed over to the supervisor of the examination
hall on the first date of appearing for the examination in
that examination hall.
 Note :- Issuance of an admission card to a candidate should
not be considered as an acceptance that he or she has
fulfilled the required qualifications to sit for the
examination.
15. Identity of a Candidate .- The candidate should prove his /
her identity to the satisfactory of the supervisor on each subject
he/she sits for. Either of the following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons;
(b) Valid passport.
16. For the purpose of the examination, the applicant’s
designation and the place of his / her employment at the time of
applying for this post will be considered. Any changes in the
applicant’s designation and the place of employment occurred after
the application date will not be considered.
17. Punishments for furnishing Incorrect Information .– If it is
found that the candidate has not fulfilled the qualifications prior to
the examination or during the examination or after the examination
or at any time, his / her candidature will be liable for cancellation.
Any information in the application which is found to be incorrect
after the appointment will render the applicant liable to cancellation
/ dismissal from the service, if it is discovered that he / she has
intentionally produced such information or if he / she has deliberately
suppressed an important information.
18.  Action will be taken as per the decision of the Secretary to
the Public Service Commission regarding any matter not considered
by these regulations.
19.  Scheme of Examination :-
(a) This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and
English Mediums.
(b) The candidate should appear for the examination in the
language in which he / she has passed the examination
qualified for applying for the post or in an official
language.
(c) If the candidate has appeared for the subjects at the
said examination in two or more languages The
candidate should appear for the examination in the
language he / she appeared for more number of subjects
passed at the examination qualified for applying for
the post or in an official language,.
(d) The candidates with a special degree who has
completed the main subject in one language and
auxiliary subjects in another language should appear
for the examination in the language in which he / she
has passed the main subject or in an official language.
Note :- (i) The term “examination qualified” in above (a) and
(b) means the examination mentioned in para 5
above.
(ii) The candidates sitting for the examination should
appear for all the subjects of the examination in
one language.
(iii) The medium of language mentioned in the
application will not be allowed to change under
any circumstances.
20. Every candidate should produce following documents at the
interview :
(a) Birth Certificate ( N.B.– Certificates produced for the
use of Assisted Schools in terms of the educational
qualifications or baptized certificates will not be
accepted)
(b) Degree or higher educational certificates
(c) Two character certificates: One certificate should be
obtained from a Director of Education or a Doctor or a
Professor from the university.
(d) Certificates of professional and / technical qualifications
(e) Certificates of higher examinations passed in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages
(f) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
Registration of Persons.
Notes :- (i) No document or photocopy of any
document should be sent along with the
application.
(ii) The candidates who fail to produce
documents at any instance of making
request to do so will not be considered.
21. Selection Procedure for Appointments.- If several candidates
have scored the same mark, the Secretary to the Public Service
Commission will take an appropriate decision in such instances
and that will be the final decision. Selection would be made out of
the top scorers at the written examination.
22. 
Special Notes :-
(i)  In terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 06/
2006 dated 25.04.2006, a recruitment and promotion

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
820
scheme is being prepared for the executive officers of
the Department of Commerce. For all Assistant
Directors of Commerce recruited under this notification,
the new scheme shall apply for matters related to
promotions and previous schemes shall be null & void.
(ii) As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
dated 28.05.2007, the selected officers should attain
proficiency in the official language / languages in
addition to the medium of language in which the officer
joined the service within a period of 05 years from the
date of appointment.
(iii) The officers who will be recruited for this post shall be
subject to the Procedural Rules issued by the Public
Service Commission as stipulated in the Gazette
Notification No. 1589/30 dated 20-02-2009 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(iv) The officers who will be recruited for this post shall be
subject to the circulars issued, from time to time, by
the Public Service Commission and the Ministry of
Public Administration.
(v) In the case of any inconsistence between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
23. The Public Service Commission has its own discretion to fill
or not to fill certain number of vacancies or the total number of
vacancies.
      By the order of Public Service Commission,
T
ILAK COLLURE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Industry and Commerce.
Ministry of Industry and Commerce,
No. 73/1, Galle Road,
Colombo 03,
11th April, 2012.
Annex No. I
First Efficiency Bar Examination
This is a written examination consists of two question papers
each of 2 hours on following subjects.
(i) Finance and Management  :
(a)  On public accounts and tender procedures, chapter 5, 6
and 13 of the Financial Regulations.
To determine the knowledge
(b)  Chapter II of the Establishments Code
                                 (02 hrs. 100 Marks)
(ii) To determine the knowledge on modern economic
development, internal trade and government trade policy of
Sri Lanka.
               (02 hrs. 100 Marks)
The candidate should obtain a minimum of 40% per each subject
in order to pass this examination. Two subjects can be completed at
one sitting or separately at several sittings. Arrangements will be
made to conduct this examination by the Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration (SLIDA).
Competitive Examination for Recruitment
of Assistant Directors for the Department of Commerce
under the Ministry of Industry and Commerce – 2012
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM FOR POST OF
ASSISTANT  DIRECTOR OF COMMERCE
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :-
(Sinhala-2, Tamil -3  English - 4)
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
(The phrase “Application for the Post of Assistant Director of
Commerce in the Department of Commerce” should be clearly
indicated on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the
application.)
01.
(i) Name with initials (In English Block Letters) :––––––––.
eg :- SILV A, A.B
(ii) Names denoted by the initials (In English Block Letters) :
–––––––.
(iii) Name with initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––.
02. Postal Address & the Telephone No. (in English block letters)
:–––––––––.
(If any change in address should be informed immediately and
admission cards for the examination will be posted to this
address.)
03. National Identity Card Number :
04. Date and place of birth :-
Year :                          Month :                    Date :
(i) Place of birth :–––––––––.
(ii) Age as per the Gazette Notification :-
Years :                Months :                      Days :
05. Ethnicity :- Sin hala - 1
Sri Lankan Tamil - 2
Indian Tamil - 3
Muslim - 4
Burgher - 5
Malay - 6
Other - 7
(Write the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
821
06. Resident District :–––––––––.
07. Whether Married? Unmarried? Widow / Widower? :–––––––.
08. Educational Qualifications :-
(Mention the details of all degrees, merit passes, professional
and vocational qualifications obtained, date of obtaining such
qualifications, if a class has been obtained, details on them, the
subjects offered and the names of institutions)
Examination / Degree Y ear Subject
(1) Sinhala (2) Tamil (3) English
09. Academies, schools and other institutions attended after 12
years of age  :-
Academy or School From To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
Professional Education  :-
Institute From To
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
10. Details on outstanding achievements in sports and details of
responsible posts held by you in such fields of sports :––––.
11. ( a) Have you released from indebtedness? If you have
indebted, for how much ?  :––––––––––.
(b) Are you a convict for a criminal offense in the court? If so,
mention all the details with dates and number of the case
:––––––––––.
12. Mention the present employment and previous employments
(Date of assuming duties, date of termination from the service
and last drawn annual salary) :––––––––––.
Designation From To Annual Salary
Rs.
(1)
(2)
(3)
(4)
(5)
(6)
(7)
  N. B.– The reasons for termination from Government Service
should be mentioned under item No. 14 given below.
13. Special Qualifications :-
(Do you have special qualifications and / or experience
mentioned in the Gazette Notification? If so, indicate entire
details on them including the dates. Please see the Gazette
Notification for any special qualification specified.)
14. If any Other Information :––––––––––.
15. (Attach the original receipt by pasting it from an edge here) :-
No. of the receipt :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
16. I do hereby certify that the particulars provided by me in this
application form are true and correct. Further, I am fully aware
that if any information provided herein is found to be false or
incorrect prior to my selection for the post, I am liable to be
disqualified and if it is found after the selection, I am liable to
be dismissed from the service without paying any compensation.
I am also aware that I will be subject to all the rules and
regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General of
Examinations with regard to conducting the examination and
issuance of results.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
If the applicant serves in the government service, report of the
Head of the Department on the applicant :-
       I do hereby certify that the particulars given in paragraph 12
above are correct / should be amended as follows, the applicant has
paid the relevant examination fees and pasted the receipt and his/
her work and conduct is ……………… He / she can be released /
cannot be released from his/ her present position.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department / Institution.
Post :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
05–34

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
822
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'05'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.05.2012
823
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
MAY 04.05.2012 Friday — 20.04.2012 Friday 12 noon
11.05.2012 Friday –– 27.04.2012 Friday 12 noon
18.05.2012 Friday –– 04.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
25.05.2012 Friday –– 11.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
JUNE 01.06.2012 Friday — 18.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
08.06.2012 Friday –– 25.05.2012 Friday 12 noon
15.06.2012 Friday –– 01.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
22.06.2012 Friday –– 08.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
29.06.2012 Friday –– 15.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
JULY 06.07.2012 Friday — 22.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
13.07.2012 Friday –– 29.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
20.07.2012 Friday –– 06.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
27.07.2012 Friday –– 13.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.