

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1718$31 - 2011 wf.daia;= 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'08'12
No. 1718/31  -  FRIDAY,  AUGUST  12,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT    PROJECTS   ACT, No. 14  OF  2008
Order Under Sub-Section (4) of Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-section (4) of  Section 3 of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of
2008 as amended, I, Basil Rohana Rajapaksa, Minister of  Economic Development, in consultation with the Minister whom
the subject of Ports and Highways has been assigned, do by this Order declared that ;—
(1) The notification which identified the project for the development of the South Container Terminal under the
Colombo Port Expansion, on Build Operate and Transfer (BOT)  basis, as a Strategic Development Project for the
purposes of the aforesaid Act, was published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1703/45 dated 29th April, 2011;
(2) The approval of the Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in terms of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 to declare
that the Project for the development of the South Container Terminal under the Colombo Port Expansion, on
Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis, be a Strategic Development Project ;
(3) The above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as the “Project for the Development of the
South Container Terminal under the Colombo Port Expansion, on Build Operate and Transfer (BOT) basis” and
that the Project Company is Colombo International Container Terminals Limited.
(4) The aforesaid Project shall implement and commence commercial operations of the Project at the site.—
(a) Stage I of the Project within a period of thirty one (31) months from the effective date as defined in
Section 5.5 of the BOT Agreement ; and
(b) Stage II of the Project within a period of sixty (60) months from the effective date as defined in Section
5.5 of the BOT Agreement ; and
(5) The exemptions from the enactments specified in the Schedule to this Order shall apply to the Project Company
and to the Sub Contractors approved by the Project Company. Upon the expiration of the said exemptions, the
then prevailing taxes shall become applicable.
SCHEDULE
(a) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
A twenty five (25) year corporate income tax holiday period under the Inland Revenue Act, commencing
from either the first year in which the Company makes taxable profit or two (2) years after commencement
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'08'12
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.08.2011
2A
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
of commercial operations, whichever falls first. For avoidance of doubt, it is to be noted that the general tax
regime then prevailing shall be applicable in relation to the Company implementing the project after the
expiration of the twenty five (25) years as setout above. The company shall be exempted from the payment
of withholding tax, on interest of foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees to
consultants employed in the project.
The tax on dividend distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be exempted from income tax during the
said twenty five (25) years tax exemption period and one (01) year thereafter.
A five (05) years tax exemption from PAYE tax shall be applicable for a maximum number of twenty (20)
expatriate staff of the Project Company.
(b) The  Value Added Tax, Act  (V AT) No. 14 of 2002.
The payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) on the importation of project related goods and the local purchases
of project related goods and services during the implementation/construction period of the project or five
(05) years whichever is less from the date of the agreement will be differed. Thereafter the payment of V AT
will be zero rated if the services provided fall within the provisions of paragraphs (b) or (c) of subsection
(1) of section 7 of the V AT Act. Any other services, other than the services which are zero rated, will be
liable to V AT at the normal rate.
(c) The Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
Shall not be applicable during the project implementation/construction period.
(d) Nation Building Tax Act, No. 10 of 2011
Shall not be applicable for a total period of seven (07) years effective from the Effective Date of the
commencement implementation/construction of the project as stated in the Build Operate and Transfer
Agreement (BOT).
(e) The Finance  Act,  No. 5 of  2005.
Shall not be applicable for the payment of construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy during the project
implementation/construction period.
(f) Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all capital goods imported in the name of the Company
implementing the project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of the Project other than the
items mentioned in the Negative List. However items in the Negative List will be considered if quantity and
quality of such goods are not available in the local market.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, MP,
Minister of Economic Development.
Colombo,
 10th  August, 2011.
08-686