

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1947$7 - 2015 foieïn¾ ui 28 jeks i÷od - 2015'12'28
No.1947/7  - MONDAY   DECEMBER  28,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
By-Laws
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
WESTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
1A
Notice published under Section 3 of Local Government Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 06 of
1952 read with Section 2 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989
IT is hereby announced that the Urban Councils Draft Bylaws; having drafted by the Chief Minister and Minister in charge
of the subject of Local Government in Western Province under Section 02 of the Local Government Authorities (Standard
By-laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 read with Section 02 of Provincial Councils (Consequential Provisions) Act No. 12 of
1989, has been published in the Extraordinary Gazette Notification of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No.
1888/46 dated 14th November 2014 and the same draft by-laws; along with amendments as stated in the schedule below
were adopted by the Western Province Provincial Council on 22nd September 2015 as per provisions of Section 03 of the
Local Government Authorities (Standard By-laws) Act, No. 06 of 1952 read with Section 02 of the Provincial Councils
(Consequential Provisions) Act, No. 12 of 1989.
I
SURA DEV APRIYA,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and
Planning, Engineering Services, Law and Order,
Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Economic Development, Electricity and Energy,
Environmental Affairs, Water Supplies and Drainage and
Tourism Affairs of Western Province.
on the 23rd date of December 2015,
Chief Ministry of the Western Provincial Council,
Shrawasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07,
BY-LAW   RELATING   TO   REGULARIZATION   OF   DECORATIONS
1. This by-law shall be enforced for the regularization and control of decorations carried out within the Urban
Council area of authority and levying charges on such.
2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Regularization of Decorations within the Urban Council area of
authority.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
2A
3. The objective of this by-law shall be to regularize and control decorations carried out by the public in streets
located within the Urban Council area of authority.
4. No person shall hereinafter carry out decorations in streets and public places located in the Urban Council area
of authority without a permit issued by the Chairman of the Urban Council or the officer authorized by him.
5. Where a permit is intended to be obtained for particular decorative purpose, an application made as per Schedule
I of this by-law shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Council 48 hours prior to the carrying out of the said
decoration.
6. Subsequent to forwarding of an application, a permit to carry out decorations will be issued by the Chairman
conforming to the provisions of this by-law.
7. Even under a permit, polythene shall no occasion be used for whatever decorating purposes.
8. The charges to be levied on every permit under this by-law shall be the charges imposed through a resolution
passed at the Council from time to time.
(l) Every person applying for every decorating purpose under this by-law shall deposit at the Council a deposit
amount as decided by the Council for such purpose.
(2) Where the decorations are not removed by a permit holder within 24 hours of the date specified in the
permit for removal of decorations, it is lawful for the Council to remove the said decorations and to
deduct the expense borne for such removal from the relevant deposit amount deposited in Council and
pay to the depositor any remaining amount from the said deposit, if there is any.
9. Provisions stipulated in by-law 8 shall not be relevant to funeral decorations.
10. Any decoration carried out under this by-law shall not be carried on in a manner covering traffic signal boards,
area maps and name boards.
11. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255).
12. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;
“Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council.
“A Decoration” means a temporary preparation for certain incident or task and such being the sole objective of
and made with artificial or natural material to represent the said incident or task and it shall not mean any flag or
banner prepared on behalf of certain religious or annual festival.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
SCHEDULE  I
Application
1. Name of the street or public place to be decorated :-
2. Nature of the decoration :
3. Period of decoration duration :
4. Purpose of decoration :
5. Date decorations will be removed :
6. How will the decoration waste be disposed :
I agree to exhibit decorations in conformation to accepted regulations of the Urban Council and I am well aware that
contravention of the relevant by-law or certain section of it shall be a punishable offence.
...............................
(Signature of Applicant)
Date :................................
BY-LAWS  RELATING  TO   BAKERIES
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control of bakeries conducted within the Urban
Council area of authority.
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Bakeries within the Urban Council area of authority.
3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained no person
shall maintain a bakery within the area of Authority of the Urban Council area of authority.
4. Every licence issued under the provisions of the By-laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the
year for which it had been issued unless it is cancelled earlier under the provisions of the By-laws in this part.
5. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part are fulfilled, the Chairman shall not issue a license
to any Bakery-
(1) The conditions in this part shall have been fulfilled irrespective of the medium in which heat is obtained
for food produced in the Bakery -
(i) The Bakery shall be in proper repaired condition ;
(ii) Every room in the Bakery shall have windows that could be opened to the outside. The area of the
opened windows shall not be less than one fifteenth of the area of the floor of the room;
(iii) Every room shall have ceilings fixed and the ceiling shall have been painted in white;
(vi) The floor of every room shall have been finished with polished cement or tiled ;
(v) While the room in which the oven of the Bakery is located shall be at least in a height of 3 meters
from the ground level of the room, it shall be built in bricks or cement blocks or Cabook blocks
with both sides of the walls being plastered and applied with paints;

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
4A
(vi) Every room in the Bakery other than the room where the oven is located shall be in a height of at
least 2.75 Meters from the floor level to the ceiling level, and they shall be built in bricks or
cement blocks or Cabook blocks or Aluminium or timber with both sides of the walls being plastered
and applied with paints;
(vii) All fittings in the Bakery made of wood shall have been applied with paints; while the roof shall have
been built with any solid material the end of eaves shall be at least 1.8 meters above the floor level
and the reservation for the eaves shall be at least 1 meter in width;
(viii) Arrangements shall have been made to use potable water for production purposes ;
(ix) While a supply of safe water shall have been provided through pipes to every room using water in
the production process, action shall have been taken to provide a drainage system sufficient to
allow the flow of waste water ;
(x) Waste water disposed of shall be allowed to flow into a suction pit ;
(xi) W aste disposal programme shall have been put in place in the manner prescribed in this By-law.
(2) Where the Bakery requesting a license is one that uses firewood,
(i) The upper edge of the chimney of the oven of the Bakery shall have been built at a height of at least
7.5 meters above the ground level ;
(ii) While the surfaces of all the tables used for kneading flour shall have been made smoothly where
the joints shall have been joined leaving no spaces between the joints. Otherwise they shall be
covered with stainless metal sheets with no joints ;
(iii) A movable receptacle sufficient to dispose of ash and remnants of wood removed from the oven of
the Bakery shall be supplied ;
(vi) The outside wall of the oven of the bakery shall be painted or applied with time ;
(v) While ordinary fire extinguishers shall have been provided, electrical fire fighting instruments shall
have been supplied if electricity facilities have been obtained for the Bakery ;
(3) Where the Bakery requesting a license is one that uses electricity-
(i) While the electric plugs connecting electricity to bakery equipment shall be in a safe condition,
trip switches functioning automatically during high voltage and leaks in electricity shall have been
fixed ;
(ii) While the electric cables of electric circuits fixed within the bakery premises shall be drawn through
pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity, there shall not be ends of electric cables open to the
outside;
(iii) Ordinary firefighting equipment and electric fire extinguishers shall have been provided and electric
cables of electric circuits shall be drawn through pipes or boxes without leakages of electricity,
there shall not be ends of electric cables open to the outside ;
6. All spaces prescribed in Section 5, to have been applied with paints shall be so applied with paints at least once
a year.
7. The floor and table of every room used for kneading flour shall be washed at least once every day.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
8. The bakery and its environment, drains, furniture and equipment shall be kept clean and in very good condition.
9. Unless the date of expiry of flour and other materials used in the manufacture of bakery products are at a
sufficient date in future, those materials shall not be used for the manufacture of bakery products at any time.
10. (a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had
been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from . such a disease shall engage himself or employ
anybody or let anybody else engage in any licensed premises or as an assistant of any person engaged at
any licensed premises.
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of work at any licensed premise.
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the licensed premises to a medical
test at least once a year.
11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety face-masks, gloves and other safety materials necessary and
to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety materials when they are on duty at the licensed premises
and also to ensure that at every time they engage in work at the bakery that they have cleaned themselves well
having washed their bodies prior to such engagement at the bakery.
12. (1) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are reused, action shall be taken to
categorize the waste material under the categories -
(i) bio degradable waste ;
(ii) glass;
(iii) paper or paper based materials;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by- products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in
place for that purpose.
(2) Unless the waste categorized as above is disposed under the waste management programme of the Council,
they shall be disposed in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.
13. Water not suitable for human consumption shall not be used for any bakery production.
14. While a separate room exclusively used for the storage of flour and other materials used in the bakery shall be
maintained it shall be sufficiently ventilated and secured against entry of flies or other insects and rats.
15. When storing flour in the store room mentioned in Section 14 above, a rack made of timber on a stand at a
height of 20 Centimeters from the floor level shall be used and the particular rack shall have been finished so as
to facilitate its movement from place to place when empty. Moreover, while the said rack shall have been
covered so as to prevent rats and other kinds of insects remaining underneath it, the structure shall be placed at
least 23 Centimeters away from the wall.
16. It is the duty of the licensee to see that the racks mentioned in Section 15 are taken out and cleaned at least
twice a month.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
6A
17. While no person shall sleep in any place licensed under the provisions of the By-laws in this part, action shall be
taken not to keep or store any other material other than the instruments or materials used for the functions of
the bakery. However, a rest room or dining room allocated for the employees of the bakery shall not be included
to this.
18. Sufficient lavatory and urinal facilities shall be made available for employee engaged in service at the bakery.
19. Where the water utilized for bakery production is stored in an underground tank, action shall be taken not to
locate a suction pit, or fertilizer pit or ash pit less than 18 meters away from such tank.
20. All employees of the bakery shall be supplied with pure water, clean towels, brushes to clean nails and soap or
liquid soap.
21. No person shall smoke, chew betel or chew any other material or partake of food inside the bakery except in a
place specifically allocated to such task.
22. It shall be the duty of the licensee to put in place a scale with standard weights or any other type of standard
scale at a clearly visible place in all the premises licensed under the provisions of the By-laws in this part and to
take action to weight at the request of any customer the weight of any bakery product on sale or exhibited for
sale.
23. In the event of the delivery of bakery products of any baker by the licensee himself it shall be the duty of the
licensee of utilize boxes securely covered to prevent entry of dust or other kinds of waste material or water.
24. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the By-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an
Authorized Officer shall mean any occasion when productions is carried out.
25. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of bakery product
kept for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any bakery, no licensee shall resist or
prevent such purchase.
26. In the event of the premises where bakery products are produced is carried on under a licence issued under the
By-laws of this part fails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in Section 05 or
contravenes the provisions of any By-law of the by-laws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action to
issue a notice to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said
premises to the prescribed position before a specified date.
27. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 26 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice
before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing the
Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period of such
extension shall not be more than fourteen days.
28. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 26 fails to act in accordance with the manner set
out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman
to cancel the licence issued to that premises.
29. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the  additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
30. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
“Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
“Urban Council area of authority” means the area of in which the Urban Council has been established.
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized for specific duty by the Chairman of the Urban Council for a specific
time period.
By- LAWS  RELATING  TO  OFFENSIVE  TRADES,  DANGEROUS  TRADES  AND  DANGEROUS  AND
OFFENSIVE  TRADES
1. These By-laws are enacted for the regulation, supervision, inspection and control of Offensive Trades, Dangerous
Trades and Dangerous and Offensive Trades carried on within the Urban Council area of authority.
2. These by-laws shall be cited as “By-laws Relating to Offensive Trades, Dangerous Trades and Dangerous and
Offensive Trades within the Urban Council Area of Authority”.
3. No person other than a holder of a licence issued by the Chairman of Urban Council for the purpose shall carry
on any offensive trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade within the Urban Council area of
authority.
4. Every license issued under the provisions of these by-laws shall be valid upto 31st December of the year for
which it has been issued unless it is cancelled earlier.
5. In the event of there being a permanent building used as the business premises to conduct the said business, it
shall be a building constructed as per a plan approved by Chairman and unless the said building complies to the
conditions set out below, no person shall receive a right to conduct a business pertaining to any offensive trade,
dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade.
(a) The premise shall have been properly maintained in good repair and shall have good ventilation and light
while every room shall have been fixed with windows which have an area of not less than one fifteenth of
the floor area of the room, when opened up;
(b) While the minimum height of walls and all the parts thereof of all the rooms shall not be less than 2.14
Meters, in the events of them being built with bricks, granite, cement blocks or cabook blocks; their inner
sides shall have been plastered with cement mortar up to a height of 2 Meters from the floor level, with
remaining part being applied with lime mixed plaster; and colour-painted.
(c) Every eave shall be at a height of at lease 2 Meters from the floor level ;
(d) The roof shall have been built using solid materials ;
(e) All the surfaces of timber work shall be applied with oil paints and or lime paints ;
(f) The whole floor space shall be finished off with cement ;
(g) The premises shall be constructed with sufficient water subsiding facility :
(h) The premises shall be provided with sanitary dust and adequate toilet facilities
6. Every licence holder shall store all materials necessary for carrying on the trade in such a manner that no
offensive odours will emanate from them or create any nuisance.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
8A
7. Every licence holder when taking away things that can cause offensive odours or nuisances from the licensed
premises along public thoroughfares shall take them in closed non-absorbent vessels to prevent odours or
nuisances.
8. Every licence holder shall take adequate measures to release the oppressive sounds, steams or gases generated
in a production process in his premises to the air at a suitable height and in a manner not to cause oppressive
results when they are dispersed, or shall cause to release them through fire or condensation device.
9. Every licence holder shall construct sufficient drains in the premises where his business is conducted and
maintain them properly and wash them daily.
10. Every licence holder shall construct the floor of the premises with some opaque material and maintain them in
good repair and shall cause them to be washed daily.
11. Every licence holder shall paint the said premises annually during the period of conducting his business.
12. Every licence holder shall keep all the tools including equipment and utensils used in the trading activities
cleanly.
13. Every licence holder shall take measures to collect in covered utensils the waste generated in his business
premises, trimmings and leftover swept and collected, workshop-waste and by-products unless they are used in
business activities further and to remove them daily in the manner prescribed by the Urban Council.
14. Every licence holder shall wash and clean the tanks that are used to wash or soak hides or similar materials after
emptying them to prevent stinking.
15. Every licence holder shall ensure that any river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any reservoir will not be
polluted by causing certain dirty, odoursome or oppressive water or other such liquid to be sent down or to flow
into a river, stream, canal, anicut, well, tank or any drain or by washing out certain oppressive material in them,
or in some other way.
16. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or any Officer of the Urban Council specially authorized by the Chairman for
the relevant purpose to enter premises where an offensive trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous
trade is carried on during official hours and to inspect the premises. It shall be the duty of the licence holder or
the person in charge of the premises to allow such inspections.
17. Through such an inspection where a licensed premise is found to be non-complying to the provisions of these
by-laws, it shall be lawful for the Chairman to take action to inform the licence holder in writing to accomplish
the necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the proper order before a specified time period. It shall
be the duty of the licence holder to take action in accordance with the said notice. If he fails to take action
accordingly, the Chairman has power to cancel the licence at such an occasion.
18. 1t shall be the duty of the Chairman on receipt of an application requesting for a licence to carry on any trade,
to issue the licence within 30 days of receiving such application by him if the premises is in accordance with
these by-laws. If the Chairman refuses to issue the licence it shall be his duty to inform the applicant so, along
with reasons for his refusal.
19. Every licence holder shall take measures to hang the licence and the list of names and addresses in languages of
Sinhala and Tamil of the employees engaged in service at the industry or business relevant to the licence at a
conspicuous place in the licence holding premises.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
20. Every notice issued under this by-law shall be served to the owner or caretaker of the said place as the case may
be. In the absence of such persons, it shall be hanged on at a place conspicuous at the licenced premises. It shall
not be required to state the name of the premises owner or person using the premises in such notice.
21. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty regulated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255) of Urban Councils Ordinance.
22. In these By-laws unless the context otherwise requires :
“Council” means the Urban Council.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council.
“Urban Council area of authority” means the area of in which the Urban Council has been established.
“An authorized officer of Urban Council,” means the officer/ officers authorized by the Chairman to implement
this by-law;
“Licensee” maans any person who has been issued a license to carry a trade under these by-laws ;
“Trade” means manufacturing of a good or material; preparing such for sale, collecting or maintaining such with
an objective for marketing;
“ Person” included a group of persons incorporated or unincorporated ;
“Person assigned with control” means a caretaker, protector, caretaker of property, manager or any other person
assigned with the task of organizing, control or management of certain business.
SCHEDULE  I
Offensive Trades
1. Manufacturing and storing for sale Fertilizer or Chemical Fertilizer.
2. Curing hides.
3. Keeping hides for sale.
4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
5. Conducting a studio
6. Running a veterinary clinic
7. Storing of perishable foods for selling
8. Keeping dry fish, salted fish or jadi exceeding 150 Kgs
9. Making charcoal from coconut shells or timber, or storing charcoal
10. Maintaining a place for processing or storing tobacco
11. Manufacturing animal food or maintaining animal food storage
12. Manufacturing poonac or storing poonac more than 200Kgs.
13. Manufacturing soaps
14. Grinding or storing animal bones
15. Keeping new metals or old metals stored
16. Keeping a place for storing debris of metal
17. Manufacturing or storing of furniture
18. Manufacturing cane products
19. Running a carpentry workshop
20. Manufacturing syrups or fruit drinks
21. Manufacturing of sweet-meats

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
10A
22. Soaking or curing coconut husks
23. Manufacturing of brushes (Other than tooth brushes)
24. Manufacturing tooth brushes
25. Collecting toddy
26. Manufacturing or storing vinegar
27. Maintaining a mechanically or manually operated timber sawing place
28. Manufacture of paints, varnish or distemper or storing them more than 100 Liters
29. Manufacture of soda
30. Manufacture of leather products
31. Packing in tins fruits, fish or other varieties of food
32. Maintaining a grinding place for grinding chilies, coffee, grains, pulses, spices or flour
33. Manufacture of candles
34. Manufacture of camphor
35. Manufacture of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink
36. Manufacture of washing blue
37. Manufacture of resin
38. Manufacture of perfumes and maintaining a storing place for such
39. Manufacture of school-chalks
40. Maintaining a place for storing tyres or tubes more than 50 in number
41. Retreading of tyres
42. Maintaining a place for vulcanizing tyre tubes
43. Maintaining a cement storage for storing more than 1000Kgs
44. Manufacture of cement and asbestos based products
45. Manufacture of plastic items
46. Manufacture of textiles by power loom
47. Cleaning of gunnies used for packing fertilizer, lime, flour or similar materials
48. Manufacturing cement blocks mechanically
49. Storage of grains or pulses more than 250 Kgs.
SCHEDULE   II
Dangerous Trades
1. Storing more than 750 Kg of sugar, flour or salt for wholesale
2. Ready-made apparel production
3. Maintaining a printing press
4. Maintaining a hen-pen for more than 100 hens
5. Maintaining a herd or pen for more than 10 goats or pigs
6. Storing bricks or roofing tiles
7. Maintaining a firewood storage
8. Mechanical or manual excavation or crushing of granite
9. Soft drink manufacturing or storing more than 100 bottles of soft drinks
10. Ice-cream production
11. Coconut oil manufacturing or storing more than 300 Liters
12. Matchbox manufacturing or storing more than 100 dozens of match boxes
13. Coir or other fiber based products or storing such products
14. Storing used apparel
I5. Jewellery production or repair
16. Mechanically operated timber sawing
17. Maintaining factories that use machines
18. Storing empty sacks or empty bottles
19. Maintaining a place for motor cycle or bicycle repair
20. Storing used paper or newspapers

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
21. Maintaining a place for sprayed painting
22. Storing or manufacturing fireworks or crackers
23. Storing other vegetable oil except coconut oil more than 50 Liters
24. Storing frozen meat or fish
25. Storing timber
SCHEDULE   III
Offensive and Dangerous Trades
I. Processing cinnamon, cardamom or varieties of bristles using chemicals.
2. Dry cleaning or dyeing clothes
3. Fabric printing or fabric dyeing
4. Maintaining a place for electroplating
5. Incineration of coral or limestone, processing and storing slaked lime
6. Maintaining a place for charging or repairing batteries
7. Maintaining a place for repairing motor vehicles
8. Maintaining a place for servicing motor vehicles
9. Running a foundry
10. Running a workshop for manufacture of tin products
11. Maintaining a gas cylinder storing place ‘
12. Producing Ayurvedic or indigenous medicine or mixing such medicine
13. Storing glassware or glass panels
14. Maintaining a factory related to plastic or fiber products
15. Storing tea leaves more than 150 Kg
16. Maintaining a place for welding
17. Maintaining a lathe machine workshop
18. Maintaining a place for storage of petrol, diesel, oil or other petroleum based oil
19. Fertilizer production or storing
20. Servicing or repairing air conditioners, refrigerators or freezers
21. Maintaining electrical workshop or electrical equipment manufacturing or repairing place
22. Maintaining a milk freezing center
BY-LAW  RELATING  TO  HOTELS  AND  LODGES
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control hotels and lodgings located within the Urban
Council area of authority.
2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Hotels and Lodges located within the Urban Council area of
authority.
3. No person shall maintain a hotel or lodge (hereinafter referred to as “place”) within the Urban Council area of
authority unless he is in possession of a valid license issued by the Chairman for the said purpose.
4. Every license issued under this by-law, unless cancelled earlier, shall terminate on 31st of December of the
year for which it was issued.
5. A place applied for obtaining a license shall be a construction constructed according to a site plan approved by
the Chairman of Urban Council.
6. The Chairman shall not issue a license to any hotel or lodge unless the conditions stated below in this by-law
have strictly been followed.

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
12A
(1) The place shall be maintained in a proper repaired condition
(2) The walls of rooms in the place shall be of height not less than 2.5 Meters whereas those walls should be
constructed in brick, cement blocks or Cabook blocks and plastered on both sides with paint applied.
However, except the kitchen, other rooms constructed by wood or certain metal sheets with paint applied
on it shall consider to be in compliance to this regulation.
(3) Every room of the place should be fixed with a ceiling and the said ceiling should be at a height not less
than 2.5 Meters from floor level.
(4) Every room should have windows fixed enabling them to be opened to outside and when the windows of
each room is opened, the extent of square feet of those window frames should not be less than the square
feet extent of the floor of the relevant room.
(5) The roof shall be made some solide material.
(6) The end of eaves shall be at least 2 meters above the floor level and the reservation for the eaves shall be
at least 1.5 meters in width.
(7) The floor of every room shall be cement-plastered and polished or tiled.
(8) Waste bins shall be kept to collect waste generated within the place and all the waste bins should have lids
to keep them well covered from preventing flies or other insects gaining access to them.
(9) In order to dispose the waste generated within the place, necessary provisions should have been allocated
to be able to conform to the regulations enforced under this by-law.
(10) A certificate of standard issued by the National Water Supplies and Drainage Board certifying that the
water used in the place is suitable for human consumption whereupon the said certificate of standard
should at least be obtained every six months. If the water supplied by the National Water Supplies and
Drainage Board is used in the place, it shall be considered that the said certificate of standard has already
been received.
(11) If the water used for activities of the place is kept stored, sufficient provisions should be allocated to
prevent such water from getting polluted.
(12) A separate place for the purpose of washing utensils used by the clients should be maintained at the place.
(13) Separate toilets and urinals for males and females should be constructed providing such facilities to the
clients and staff to a ratio of at least one toilet or urinal per every 10 persons.
(14) The walls of every toilet or urinal shall be constructed by bricks, cement blocks or Cabook blocks or non-
corrosive metal sheets and have floors plastered and polished in cement or tiled and in case of walls being
constructed in non-corrosive metal sheets, such walls should have painted surfaces.
(15) Sufficient number of bathrooms should be constructed for the use of staff employed in the place and the
regulations enforced in above Sub-section (14) should also be relevant to the said bathroom floors and
walls.
(16) W ithin the part allocated for clients’ use in the place, wash basins made of non-corrosive metal sheets or
polished ceramic or made in brick or cement blocks and tiled, should be fixed for clients’ use to wash
their hands.
(17) Proper drainage system to allow unobstructed flow of waste water disposed after use in any part of the
place should be constructed.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
(18) Where the Urban Council maintains a drainage system, the waste water disposed from the place may be
released to the said drainage system as the Urban Council regulates and in the absence of such, said waste
water should cause to be flow into a pit to absorb such waste water.
(19) Fire extinguishing equipment should be made available at the place and a fire protection certificate relevant
to the place should be obtained.
(20) In the rooms allocated for clients and employees to sleep in within the place, the space allocated for
sleeping by one person shall not be less than 4 Meters.
7. The license holding place shall at least be swept twice a day and waste water flowing drains shall be cleaned
twice a day and washed out with water.
8. Except in rooms specifically allocated as sleeping rooms, in the license holding place no other room shall be
allocated to be slept by whoever person.
9. Name, address and identity card number of each person obtaining room facilities in the licensed place shall be
recorded in a register and where the said register is requested by the Chairman, authorized officer or certain
Police Officer for inspection, the licensee’s task is to allow such inspection.
10. Every room of license holding place, subsequent to be used by one client, shall not be handed over to the use of
another client unless the bed sheets, pillow covers, blankets, towels and other used clothes in that room are
washed and cleaned. Prior to handing over the said room to the client who arrived later on, the windows of the
said room shall be kept completely opened for minimum of 04 hours.
11. In any bedroom, food preparing place or in a part allocated for food consumption within the license holding
place, no animal whatsoever shall be kept.
12. The toilets and urinals of the license holding place shall be cleaned and sprinkled with antiseptics twice a day
minimum and be kept odourless. However, cleaning the toilets of a particular room occupied by clients once a
day shall be considered as sufficient.
13. All the wares, utensils and equipment used for preparation of food, containing food put on display for selling
purpose and utensils used by clients at the license holding place shall be washed in clean water prior to their use
and causing them to be cleaned after use shall be the responsibility of the license holder.
14. All the waste collected in each place of the license holding place should be categorized as specified in Section
16 of this by-law and cause to be immediately disposed to a bin made of impenetrable material and take measures
to remove the said waste from that place at least once or where required, more than once taking care to keep
those bins well covered except in occasions where waste is put into those bins and removal of waste from the
said bins.
15. In no occasion shall the waste disposed from the license holding place be scattered on the ground of the place
or within the compound of the place.
16. (l). Unless all the waste generated within a license holding place is re-used, the license holder bears the
responsibility of causing such waste to be categorized under
i. Bio-degradable waste;
ii. Glass;
iii. Paper or paper related materials;

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
14A
iv. Polythene and plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
v . Iron or other metal materials or iron and other metal parts;
vi. Parts remaining from other raw materials used for production or by-product materials or parts
received in the production process;
vii. Dangerous waste;
and causing each category of waste to be put into separate bins or tanks allocated for the disposing of each
material.
(2). Unless the waste categorized and collected in bins or tanks as stated in the above Sub-section is disposed
under the waste disposal management system of the Urban Council, it shall be disposed finally in a manner
ordered by the Chairman.
17. Every license holding place should be kept free from rats, flies, or other insects whereas the license holder is
responsible for taking action to make provisions to prevent materials used for food preparation of the said
place and cooked food and beverages from being polluted by the said creatures.
18. While serving food to clients, food shall not be touched by hand and for serving food, a spoon, fork or other
such equipment shall be used.
19. (1). A person suffering from any infectious, contagious or skin disease or had contacted such a disease in the
recent past or a person who has engaged in taking care of such person recently, unless the contagious or
incubation period of the said disease has expired, shall not engage or cause to be; engaged in any type of
work at a whatever license holding place or as an assistance to a person working thereof or let engage in
such work.
(2). Unless dressed in clean clothes washed well, no person shall engage in whatever work at a licensed place
or cause to be engaged in such work.
(3). The license holder is responsible for the referring of all the employees deployed in such licensed place
at least once in every year for medical examination.
20. For every employee engaged in the preparation of food or beverages at the license holding place, aprons should
be provided and the license holder’s task is to ensure that those aprons are worn by the said employees every
time they engage in work.
21. Every employee serving in the license holding place should be provided with clean water, clean towels, and
brushes to clean nails, soap or liquid soap.
22. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to enter a license holding place to inspect whether
the place is maintained according to by-law regulations.
23. It shall be lawful for the Chairman or his authorized officer to pay for a sample prepared at certain license
holding place or kept on sale in such place during such occasion no license holder shall reject or obstruct such
purchasing.
24. The location of a hotel issued with a license under this by-law terminates its existence in conformation to
whatever regulation stated in Section 6 of this by-law, or found contrary to regulations of other by-laws of this
part, a notice ordering the said license holder to take all necessary measures to restore the said place to be in

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
conformation to those by-laws prior to certain specified date shall be served to the said license holder by the
Chairman.
25. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
26. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;
“Council” means the Urban Council ;
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council.
“Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.
BY-LAW   RELA TING   TO   CREMATORIUMS
01. This by-law is enforced to regularize the cremation of corpses in every crematorium controlled under Urban
Council, levying charges for cremations and to regularize crematorium administration.
02. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Crematoriums within the Urban Council area of Authority.
03. A corpse shall not be cremated in a crematorium functioning under the control of the Council without a pass
issued by the Chairman or an officer authorized in writing by him (hereinafter referred to as “Authorized Officer”)
04. By a person who expects to obtain a pass stipulated under Section 03 (hereinafter referred to as “applicant”)
shall, forward to the Chairman or his authorized officer an application prepared in accordance with Schedule
“a”, along with the documents mentioned below.
(a) A document confirming the connection between the deceased and the applicant, applicant’s birth certificate
or deceased person’s birth certificate or applicant’s marriage certificate or a certificate issued by the
Grama Niladhari of the Grama Seva Division in which the deceased person was residing is sufficient
therein.
(b) If an autopsy was carried out under the Criminal Procedure Code in relation to the death of the person
demised, the certificate issued under Paragraph 41 (e) of the  Registration of Births and Deaths Act by the
Coroner or the Magistrate who carried out the autopsy allowing permission to cremate the corpse; or in
case of a corpse resulting from a still birth, the certificate issued under Paragraph 43 (b) of the Registration
of Births and Deaths Act.
05. Subsequent to handing over the duly filled application to the Chairman or authorized officer, it shall be
documented in the order it was received.
06. If the corpse is accepted to be cremated, having charged the relevant fee, the pass shall be issued to the applicant.
The time to hand over the corpse to the person in charge of the crematorium shall be stated in the pass.
07. If the corpse is not accepted for cremation, the authorized officer shall, immediately and as the situation requires,
inform in writing to the applicant about the reasons for such rejection.
08. Within the time period of 7.00 a.m. to 8.00 p.m. every day, corpses can be accepted for cremation.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
16A
09. The applicant shall hand over the corpse to the person in charge of the crematorium at the time indicated in the
pass or 30 minutes immediately prior to that time. The Urban Council shall not be held responsible for difficulties
or losses incurred by late handover of corpses.
10. In every crematorium, details pertaining to each corpse cremated, such as the name of the applicant and address,
National Identity card number, name of the person   deceased, the address of the place in which he was residing
prior to demise, the relationship between the applicant and the deceased, date and time of cremation, number
and date of the pass, shall be documented by the person in charge of the crematorium.
11. Incinerated ash shall be collected by the representative before a lapse of 72 hours subsequent to the cremation
of the corpse. However, by a request forwarded by the applicant to the Chairman or authorized officer, the time
period for keeping incinerated ash in custody of the person in charge of the crematorium shall be extended. The
Chairman or the authorized officer shall have power to dispose incinerated ash that is not collected within the
specific period.
12. Entering the premises of the crematorium without obtaining permission from the crematorium-in-charge or
Chairman shall be an offense. Nevertheless, for a person or persons accompanying a pass holder for the purpose
of cremating a corpse shall be considered as provided with permission to enter the crematorium for that purpose.
13. Behaving in a manner violating peace within the crematorium premises or causing damage to the property of the
crematorium premises or obstructing the official duties of the crematorium-in-charge or his assistants or
carrying out decorations within the crematorium premises shall be an offense.
14. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
15. (a) It shall be the duty of the Chairman to maintain the crematoriums in proper condition enabling cremation
of corpses.
(b) If a crematorium is closed down for a certain period of time for the purpose of maintenance or renovation,
it shall be the duty of the Chairman to display the announcement regarding such closure at a conspicuous
place at the crematorium and at an office where passes are issued to enter the crematorium.
16. (a) Charges levied for the cremation of corpses can be imposed by time to time through a resolution passed
at the Urban Council. Charges imposed thus may be amended by the Urban Council in instances considered
as required by the Urban Council.
(b) The charges imposed or amended by Paragraph (l) above, shall be announced by a Gazette notification.
17. Where the crematorium malfunctions while it is being used due to a mechanical error, the power relating to
decision-making in such occasion lies with the Chairman and such matter shall at no occasion be made use to
taking an action against either the Urban Council or Chairman by the applicant.
18. Unless other meaning is required in relation to he text :

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
“Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
“Crematorium-in-charge” means a person appointed to serve as the in-charge of a crematorium controlled
under the Urban Council
“Corpse” means a corpse of a human being, or part thereof or a corpse resulting  from a still child birth.
SCHEDULE   “a”
Application to Cremate the Corpse at the  ........................................ Crematorium
1. Full name of the Applicant :
Address:
National Identity Card No:
Grama Seva Division:
2. Name of the person deceased :
Address she/he was residing in:
Grama Seva Division:
National Identity Card No :
3. Applicant’s relationship to the deceased :
4. Number and Date of the Death Certificate :
5. Name and Address of the Secretary registering :
the death
6. Reason for death :
7. If an autopsy was conducted in relation to the death, :
the date and time of autopsy:
8. Name and Designation of the Inspection Officer :
9. Conclusion of the Inspection Officer :
10. Whether permission be allowed for the body :
to be cremated
11. Date and time required for cremation (According :
to the order of preference)
(i)   ................................................
(ii)  ................................................
(iii)  ...............................................
It is hereby declared that all the above mentioned details are accurate and true. Relevant copies have been
attached.
...............................
Signature of the Applicant and Date

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
18A
1. Issuance of the pass is approved. Due to following reasons issuance of a pass is rejected.
.....................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................
.....................................................................................................................................................................................
.............................
Signature,
Chairman/Authorized Officer,
                                                                                                                                           Date :..................................
Chairman/Authorized Officer
1. Recorded in the Register
Rs. ...........................................................................was charged by the Receipt No.................................................
Dated.....................................
2. The pass is forwarded for placement of the signature
3. The letter containing reasons for the rejection of the request is forwarded for signaute
..................................
Signature of the Officer in Charge
Date ..............................
BY LAWS   RELATING   TO   EATING   HOUSES
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control the maintenance of eating houses within the
Urban Council area of authority.
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Eating Houses within Urban Council Area of Authority.
3. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman for the particular function has been obtained no person
shall maintain an eating house within the area of authority of the Urban Council.
4. Every licence issued under the provisions of the by-laws of this part shall be valid up to 31st December of the
year for which it had been issued unless it was cancelled earlier.
5. Unless the following conditions in the by-laws of this part are fulfilled the Chairman shall not issue a license to
any eating house:-
(1) All permanent constructions related to an eating house shall be constructed according to a plan approved
by the Chairman.
(2) The premises shall be maintained in proper repaired condition.
(3) While the minimum height of the walls of all rooms shall not be less than 2.5 Meters, both sides of the
For office use only

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
walls shall have been plastered with mortar and applied with paints, in the event of their being built in solid
materials.
(4) While every room of the premises shall be fixed with a ceiling, it shall be at a height of not less than 2.5
Meters from the ground level.
(5) Every room shall have windows that could be opened to the outside. The area of the opened windows shall
not be less than one fifteenth the area of the floor of the room. However, where any room is air conditioned,
this provision may not be applied in the same manner.
(6) The roof shall be made of some solide material.
(7) The floor of the eating house shall be plastered in cement and polished or tiled.
(8) While waste bins shall be placed to collect waste generated in the eating house premises and they shall
have lids to keep them closed so as to prevent entry of flies or other kinds of insects.
(9) In order to dispose the waste generated within the eating house premises, necessary provisions should
have been allocated to be able to take actions stated hereinafter under this bylaw.
(10) All furniture used within the premises shall be of proper finish and tables and chairs should be made in
wood or metal and polished with table tops covered in glass pane.
(11) A seperate section shall be maintained in the premises to wash utensils used by the customers.
(12) Separate lavatories and urinals for males and females should be constructed providing such facilities to
the clients and staff sufficiently.
(13) In the section of the premises assigned for the use of the customers wash basins made of stainless metal
or polished ceramic clay and polished or made of bricks or cement blocks and tiled, should be made
available including water facilities.
(14) Proper drainage system to allow unobstructed flow of waste water disposed after use in any part of the
place should be constructed. In no occasion shall the drains be opened to a place of common access.
(15) Sufficient fire extinguishing equipment should be made available at the place.
(16) The place where tea or coffee is prepared in the premises shall be covered in non-corrosive metal sheet
or applied with tiles or covered in other water resistant material.
6. Keeping the eating house and all the premises attached to it in proper condition with paint applied would be the
license holder’s task.
7. The licensed premises shall have been swept at least twice a day and the drains carrying waste water shall be
cleaned and washed with water at least twice daily.
8. Animals such as dogs or cats shall not be reared as pets within the eating house premises.
9. The lavatories and urinals at the eating house premises shall be cleaned and sprinkled with antiseptics twice a
day minimum and be kept odourless.
10. For containing food or handling of food items within the eating house, proper utensils should be used and they
shall be kept in good clean condition.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
20A
11. (a) All the waste generated within the eating house premises shall be separated as follows and collected
separately in bins
i. Bio-degradable waste;
ii. Glass;
iii. Paper or paper related materials;
iv. Polythene and plastic or polythene and plastic related materials;
v . Iron or other metal materials or iron and other metal parts;
(b) waste collected within the eating house premises as per methods stated in above sub section shall be sent
for the final disposal in accordance to a waste management programme currently in operation within that
area of authority.
12. (a). A person suffering from any infectious, contagious or skin disease or had contacted such a disease in the
recent past or a person who has engaged in taking care of such person recently, unless the contagious or
incubation period of the said disease has expired, shall not engage or cause to be engaged in any type of
work at a whatever eating house premises or as an assistance to a person working thereof or let engage in
such work.
(b). Unless dressed in clean clothes washed well, no person shall engage in whatever work at a eating house
premises or cause to be engaged in such work.
( c). The license holder is responsible for the referring of all the employees deployed in such licensed place
at least once in every year for medical examination.
13. For every employee engaged in the preparation of food or beverages at the license holding place, aprons should
be provided and the license holder’s task is to ensure that those aprons are worn by the said employees every
time they engage in work.
14. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of food prepared
within the eating house premises or kept for sale in the premises, no licensee shall desist or prevent such
purchase.
15. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to enter a license holding place to inspect whether
the place is maintained according to by-law regulations and the license holder or person in charge of the place
shall allow such inspection while providing their full support.
16. Where an eating house is constructed in a manner contravening the provisions of this bylaw and where the
Chairman has served a notice of such contravention, in the event of not taking accurate measures during the
time period allotted for amendment of the said fault, it is lawful for the Chairman to cancel the license issued.
17. Maintaining an eating house without a license under this bylaw deemed to be an offence and subsequent to being
convicted for such offence by a Magistrate Court, the offender shall be subjected to a penalty stated under
Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
18. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this bylaw-
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Urban Council;
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized for specific or common duty by the Chairman.
BY-LAW   RELATING   TO   THE   SALE   OF   FISH
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control the sale of fish within the Urban Council area
of authority and charges levied on such services.
2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Sale of Fish within the Urban Council area of authority.
3. No person within the Urban Council area of authority shall use any premises for the purpose  of selling fish
without a valid licence issued under the provisions of this by-law by the Chairman of Urban Council.
4. Unless the premises applied for obtaining a license under this by-law is in conformity with the conditions set
out below the Chairman shall not issue a licence to anybody to carry on a fish sales centre -
(a) The place where fish is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or applied with
rust proof metal sheets;
(b) The floor of the premises where fish is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished off
with cement or laid with tiles;
(c) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate
the flow of waste water;
(d) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drains
referred to in paragraph (3) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken to drain off such
waste water to a suction pit ;
(e) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to air ;
(j) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the fish market shall be made available
whereas action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to ground such waste material at least 0.5 meters
deep in the ground or to dispose such in the manner decided and implemented by the Urban Council from
time to time.
5. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed fish stall action shall be taken to wash and clean the floor, the tiled
or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut fish, other utensils and the places exhibiting the fish for sale
with disinfectant fluid.
6. Measures shall be taken to keep the licensed fish stall and its surrounding drains, all the utensils and equipments
used in fish storage, preparation or sales in proper repaired condition and without odour.
7. Provided that fish left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed fish stall are stored in a deep
freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until the opening of the
stall for sales on the following day no species of fish left behind unsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale ,or
kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.
8. Any licensed fish stall shall be kept deviod of dogs, cats, rats or insects.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
22A
9. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of fish no other goods or clothes or
mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.
10. (a) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of an infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed, no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had
been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself in whatever type
of sale or be employed as an assistant of any person engaged in such business or caused to be engaged so
or, allowed to be engaged in any task. ;
(b) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of work at any fish stall;
(c) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the fish stall to a medical test at least
once a year.
11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply all the employees employed in the fish stall with safety face-masks,
gloves, gloves and other safety materials necessary and to ensure that the employees are wearing these safety
materials when they are on duty at the fish stall.
12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or liquid soap for the use of all persons employed at the
licensed premises.
13. While it shall be lawful for the Municipal Commissioner or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind
of fish kept for sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any fish stall, no licensee shall resist
or prevent such purchase.
14. (1) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are reused, action shall be taken to
categorize the waste material under the categories.-
(i) biodegradable waste;
(ii) glass;
(iii) paper or paper based materials;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;
(vi)  left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line ;
(vii) dangerous waste;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place
for that purpose.
(2) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in Sub-
section (l) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management launched by the Urban Council,
the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.
15. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the by-laws in this part by the Municipal Commissioner
or by an Authorized Officer shall mean any occasion fish sales are done at the fish-stall.
16. In the event of the premises where sale of fish is carried on under a licence issued under the by-laws of this Part
fails to maintain it in accordance with anyone of the provisions set out in Section 4 of this by-law or contravenes
the provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set out in this part, the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice
to the said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the
prescribed position before a specified date.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
17. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in the above by-law shall act in the manner prescribed in the
notice before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in
writing, the Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice. However, the period
of such extension shall not be more than fourteen days.
18. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 16 fails to act in accordance with the manner set
out in the notice, before the date specified in the notice or the date extended, it shall be lawful for the Chairman
to cancel the licence issued to that premises.
19. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255).
20. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law ;
“Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
“Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.
BY -LAW   RELATING   TO   VEHICLE   CONTROL   IN   ROADS   WITHIN   THE   URBAN   COUNCIL
AUTHORITIES
1. This by-law is enforced to regulate weight and speed limits in Urban Council roads, minimizing the possibility
of damage to a road and thoroughfare posed thereby and control of transportation within Urban Council
authorities.
2. This by-law shall be named as ‘By-law relating to Weight and Speed Limits of Urban Council Roads.
3. Through a resolution passed at the Urban Council, specifying the maximum weight and speed for a vehicle
travelling in a road or thoroughfare considered as suitable by the Urban Council from among the roads and
thoroughfares situated within the said Urban Counccil area of authority, is lawful.
4. The Chairman of the Urban Council shall display the regulations specified in the above Section 03 at the starting
point or ending point or at main access points of the said road or thoroughfare by way of a notice board or
notice boards to be seen by the public.
5. When performing the regulations stated in the above Section 4, the relevant notice boards shall be displayed in
accordance to regulations enforced by the Thoroughfares Ordinance and Motor Traffic Ordinance.
6. Where a road or thoroughfare controlled under the Urban Council is reconstructed or constructed, subsequent
to a notice issued by the Chairman of the Urban Council prior to three days of such reconstruction or construction,
the Chairman may close or restrict transportation in the said road or thoroughfare or part thereof.
7. The residents residing beside the road or thoroughfare controlled under the Urban Council shall not cause
waste water to flow into the road or thoroughfare.
8. The residents residing beside the road or thoroughfare controlled under the Urban Council shall prevent branches
of trees from protruding on to the road or thoroughfare in an obstructing or hindering manner.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
24A
9. Breach or contravention of whatever provision of this by-law is an offence and when convicted before a court of
proper jurisdiction with regard to the relevant offence, the maximum penalty that may be imposed and where
such breach or contravention is continued further even after being convicted, and where the said contravention
is continued even further subsequent to being handed over a written notice by the Chairman or other authorized
officer drawing attention to the said contravention, the maximum additional penalty that may be imposed for
each day of such contravention shall respectively be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty imposed by Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance. All the penaltis charged
under this shall be credited to the Urban Council Fund.
10 Unless other interpretation is required with regard to text,
“Thoroughfare and road” mean a road or thoroughfare situated within the Urban Council area of authority providing
people with road rights, completely or partially being reparied or maintained by the Urban Council or completely
or partially repaired or maintained by the Urban Council.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Urban Council.
“Vehicle” means the same meaning as provided under the Motor Traffic Ordinance.
BY-LAW   RELATING   TO   ITINERARY   TRADE
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, supervise and control itinerary trade within Urban Council area of
authority.
2. This by-law shall be cited as the “By-law Relating to Itinerary Trade within the Urban Council Area of Authority”.
3. Provided that a valid permit issued by the Chairman of the Urban Council for the particular function, no person
shall sell or keep  for selling any goods, material or food at a road, thoroughfare, public park, playground or any
other public place within the Urban Council area of authority or sell or keep for selling such good or material
0r food while. carrying them to and for by hands or bicycle or tricycle or cart or any other vehicle.
4. Every permit issued under above Section 03, unless cancelled earlier, will be valid for the whole period for
which it was issued.
5. Every request for itinerary trade shall be submitted in accordance to an application prepared as per the format
Stated in Schedule “a” of this by-law.  It has to be obtained after paying a fee decided by thc Urban Council.
6. A permit issued under this by-Jaw shall comply with the Schedule “b” of this by-law and the fee levied on that
shall be decided by the Council from time to time considering the periods.
7. Every itinerary vendor when he engages in trading activities shall wear the permit issued by the Chairman to be
visible clearly or keep exposed the relevant part of the permit which is required to be displayed.
8. In every occasion where the vendor is informed by the Chairman or an officer authorized by him to present
vendor’s permit, every itinerary vendor shall present his permit and related documents.
9. Unless the time has specifically been restricted according to the nature of the trade, every itinerary vendor in
possession of a permit holds the right to engage in his business from 6.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m. Provided that the
Chairman has allowed him to engage in business beyond that time period and if that fact has been stated in the
permit, it is lawful to engage in business within that mentioned time period.
10. Any permit holder engaged in the itinerary trade shall prevent himself from engaging in business if he is suffering
from a contagious disease.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
11. Every itinerary vendor engaged in the food selling business shall comply with the following provisions.
(1) The food items kept on the move for selling shall be kept so as to prevent contamination by flies, and
collection of dust, waste, odour and such food shall not be allowed to be handled with bare hands by
persons.
(2) The vehicle, bicycle, cart, receptacles, trays and all the equipment and utensils in contact with food shall
be kept in clean condition daily.
(3) Paper or materials used to wrap food shall be in good condition to be used for that purpose.
(4) Clean equipment and tools shall be used to handle food.
(5) No person suffering from a contagious disease shall be deployed for the sale of food items.
(6) Fire shall not be used in a manner dangerous or oppressive to a certain person or persons.
(7) Waste or waste water shall not be dumped in public places and proper measures shall have been taken to
remove them in it manner satisfactory to the Chairman.
12. No itinerary vendor shall sell meat of an animal mentioned in the Butcher's Ordinance.
13. Where the Chairman has declared a particular area, zone, street thoroughfare, business preventing itinerary
trading activities therein due to spreading of an epidemic or contagious disease or being an area where such had
already spread, or due to some timely reason, itinerary trade shall not be conduted in such area, zone, street,
thoroughfare even if a vendor possesses a valid permit.
14. The waste generated in itinerary trading activities shall not be disposed to the external environment in any other
way except according to the system implemented within the said area by the Urban Council.
15. Even if holding a permit under this by-law itinerary trade shall not be conducted within a public fair.
16. No permit holder shall engage in business while stalling in one place for a long time.
17. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention of violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
18. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires :
“Council” means the Urban Council.
“Chairman’” rneans the Chairman of Urban Council.
“Urban Council Area of Authority” means the area In which the Urban Council has been established.
“Food” means food and beverage taken for human consumption
“Itinerary Trade” means a mobile trading activity kept on the move with the assistance of one’s own self or
animal or vehicle or cart of bicycle or tricycle.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
26A
SCHEDULE  ‘A’
Application for Obtaining a Permit to Engage in Itinerary Trade
01. Full name of the Applicant :........................................................................................................................................
02. Permanent Address of Applicant :......................................................................................................................................
03. Temporary Address of Applicant :...............................................................................................................................
04. Applicant’s National Identity Card No :.....................................................................................................................
05. Applicant’s telephone No :.........................................................................................................................................
06. Nature of itinerary trade :...........................................................................................................................................
07. How itinerary business will be maintained :................................................................................. ............................
08. Area of authority applied for :...................................................................................................................................
09. Area of authority applicant resides in :.................................................................................... ..................................
10. Permit period required :.................................................................................................... .........................................
11. Registered number of vehicle used for itinerary trade: ..................................................................... .....................
.........................
Signature of Applicant.
Instructions :
1. Copy of the Identity Card to confirm permanent residence.
Subject Clerk's report to issue the permit.
...........................
Signature of Subject Clerk.
Date :...........................
Recommend/not recommend the issuance of permit.
.............................
Secretary.
Date :.........................
Recommend/not recommend the issuance of permit
............................
Chairman
Urban Council.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
SCHEDULE  II
Permit to engage in Itinerary Trade
01. Full name of the permit holder:............................................................................................. .....................................
02. Permit holder’s National Identity Card No:.................................................................................. .............................
03. Nature of itinerary trade:.............................................................................................................................................
04. Permitted area:............................................................................................................................................................
05. Permit period:..............................................................................................................................................................
Date :..................................
..............................
Chairman,
Urban Council.
(This part shall be worn to be visible clearly, or else, it shall be displayed)
PERMIT   GIVEN  TO   ENGAGE   IN   ITINERARY   TRADE   WITHIN   URBAN  COUNCIL   AREA  OF
AUTHORITY
01. Full Name:...................................................................................................................................................................
02. Permanent Address:....................................................................................................................................................
03. National Identity Card No:.........................................................................................................................................
.
04. Permit holder’s signature:...........................................................................................................................................
05. Permitted area:............................................................................................................................................................
.
06. Permit period :............................................................................................................................................................
.
07. Nature of itinerary trade:.................................................................................................. ..........................................
08. Permit holder’s signature:........................................................................................................................................
Date :..................................
..............................
Chairman,
Urban Council.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
28A
BY   LAW   RELATING   TO   ADVERTISEMENTS
l. This by-law will be enforced for the purpose of regularization, control of advertisements displayed conspicuously
to a road located within the Urban Council area of authority and for levying charges on advertisements advertised
thus.
2. This by-law shall be named as the By-law Relating to Advertisements within the Urban Council Area of Authority.
3. No person shall display or cause to display any advertisement to be conspicuous to certain road or thoroughfare
unless he possesses a license issued by the Chairman of Urban Council assigning power to do so.
4. For the purposes of this by-law, an advertisement means a board, banner, cutout or advertisements created by
drawing on Aluminium sheets, iron, polythene, fabric or paper, else an advertisement-board set up using galvanized
iron or an advertisement displayed on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, boundary wall to promote certain place of
trade, trade material or business by using letters or pictures or special advertisements displayed on festive
occasions like trade exhibitions and carnivals, and erected to be conspicuous to the main road, byroad, Provincial
Council, Urban Council or private road.
5. Under this by-law,
(I) Every application requesting a license for the display of whatever advertisement shall comply to the
format stated in the first schedule herein and shall be forwarded to the Chairman of the Council at least
prior to three days of such date on which the said advertisement is meant to be displayed according to the
sixth section of this by-law.
(2) The fee charged for an application issued by the Urban Council may be decided by the Council from time
to time through a resolution passed at the Council.
6. Every application forwarded under Section 5 of this by-law shall satisfy the following requirements.
(I) Ground plan drawn not less than the scale relative to the location of the structure where the advertisement
is to be set up.
(2) The diagram of that structure drawn in scale not less than I: 1000
(3) If any amendments so as to comply with these by-laws exist in that plan, diagram or specification, including
such amendments.
(4) A copy of the same advertisement drawn in small scale and had all the colours applied that of the
advertisement to be displayed.
(5) The plan indicating the location of the advertisement in relation to the adjacent roads and main land
marks.
7. Unless conforming to plans, diagrams and specifications approved by way of a written document by the Chairman
of the Urban Council, no person shall construct or cause to construct within the Urban Council area of authority
any - advertisement or advertisements or any board, billboard, advertising boards, or any other structure to be
utilized for the task of display.
8. Where an application forwarded under by-law No. 05 is approved by the Chairman of Urban Council, the applicant
shall not be issued with a license until prescribed charges decided upon as per schedule (2) below had been
paid.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
9. Where a license has been issued to a person for displaying an advertisement board, the Urban Council shall
order the said person to include license reference No. and license holder’s name in every advertisement displayed
by him.
10. The provisions stated in these by-laws shall not be relevant to any of the advertisements stated below unless
such advertisement is a electrical advertisement or sky name board;
a) A notice relating to a concert that deploys the amount of net revenue for charity affairs;
b) An advertisement relating to a concert and displayed on the spot where the said  concert is held;
c) An advertisement relating to a religious, political or public meeting;
d) An advertisement stating ‘’to be let on rent” ;
e) An advertisement stating “for sale”;
f) House name boards;
g) Name boards utilized for professional activities and not exceeding 0.93 Square Meters in area;
h) A vehicle used for some trade purpose displaying an advertisement indicating the nature of that trade
affair or business, owner’s name, address, telephone No. and email address.
11. No person shall :
1) display an advertisement on top of a street, road or footpath, or, across or protruding to such street, road
or footpath;
2) display an advertisement on a board exceeding 15 meters height from the floor level;
3) fix or let hang an advertisement on the surface of a building facing a street or road or on a name board of
a business place or, in a manner exceeding the length of the surface of the said building;
4) construct or set up an advertisement in the nature of sky advertisement without prior approval of the
Urban Council.
12. No person shall display an advertisement on a private or public building, place of religious worship, Public Park
or on a bridge or overhead passenger bridge, telephone or electricity post, side wall, dam, anicut, culvert, rock,
bank or tree.
13. No advertisement shall be constructed or set up in an area specifically indicated in a resolution adopted by the
Council and duly published in the gazette paper unless it is a trade center board constructed or set up in accordance
to the manner approved by the Chairman of the Urban Council.
14. Without the permission of Chairman the of Urban Council, using a radio, gramophone, musical instrument, a
bell or other equipment by any person for the purpose of displaying or introducing any advertisement in a street
or road located within the Urban Council area of authority would be illegal.
15. Under this by-law,
(I) Where a particular advertisement found to be displaying repulsive or revolting image and causing damage
to public morality, the Chairman of the Urban Council by way of a written announcement may order the
person advertising the said advertisement to stop displaying the advertisement within a time period
specifically notified by that announcement.
(2) Any person who has been served a notice under Section 01 of this by-law shall take action as per the said
notice within the time specified therein.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
30A
16. The owner or lease holder of a board used for displaying advertisements;
(I) Shall maintain the said boards in proper repaired state and ensuring safety of persons.
(2) Shall display his name and address in legible letters on the front surface of the board in a clearly visible
place.
17. No person shall distort certain logo or number included by Urban Council in an advertisement to indicate that
the prescribed licence fee for the display of that advertisement has been paid.
18. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
19. It is lawful for the Urban Council to remove without any prior notice the advertisements displayed within the
Urban Council area of authority without obtaining a license under this by-law.
20. Where certain person or institution has become an offender due to the reason of continuous display of
advertisements without obtaining a license or due to contravention of conditions stipulated under this by-law, it
is lawful for the Urban Council to blacklist such person or institution regarding advertisement related activities
within that Urban Council area of authority.
21. Subsequent to receiving permission to display advertisements, eventhough the permit’s period of validity is
valid for a future period, if an advertisement board or a cutout or a banner fixed in any manner or drawn on a wall
or parapet wall has become tom, slants, collapses or discoloured, broken down, changed and affects the
attractiveness of the city in whichever manner, within 07 days of handing over a written notice to the relevant
owner with regard to such advertisements, measures shall be taken by him to restore it and if such restoration
does not take place, it is lawful for the Council to remove such advertisement. Where the Council will have to
remove the advertisement by deploying employees of the Council after 14 days of such notice, the Urban
Council will not hold whatsoever responsibility regarding the said advertisement.
22. Unless other meaning is required with regard to text, in this by-law
“Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
SCHEDULE 01
Application  for  Display  of  Advertisements
01. Full Name of the Applicant :.......................................................................................................................................
02. Permanent Address  :....................................................................................................................................................
03. Business, festival, exhibition, carnival, meeting or trading material expected to be promoted through the
advertisement :.............................................................................................................................................................
04. Location/locations where the advertisement is intended to be displayed  :................................................... .........

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
05. Has relevant format been attached  :..........................................................................................................................
06. Type of advertisement expected to be displayed (banner, boards, cutouts, wall, parapet wall or permanent):
.......................................................................................................................................................................................
7. Even after receiving approval to display your advertisement, in the event of such advertisement being
discoloured, slanted, torn, collapses on to ground, would you agree to restore it ? :......................................................
.......................................................................................................................................................................................
I,  hereby agree to display the advertisement in accordance to the regulations accepted by the Urban Council and I
am well aware that contravention of the relevant by-law or any section therein to be a punishable offence.
...............................
(Signature of Applicant)
Date :.................................
The following documents have been attached
I. Where the advertisement is a permanent one, the letter of consent obtained from the owner of the land where
the said advertisement will be set up.
II. If the advertisement will be drawn on a house, boutique, hotel, wall, parapet wall or any such place, the letter of
consent obtained from the owner of the said parapet wall, wall, boutique or hotel.
III. Details of how land (space) will be used to draw or permanently fix the advertisement
IV . The format relevant to the advertisement shall be presented clearly. (subsequent to issuance of the licence,
permission will not be allowed to change the format in any way)
SCHEDULE  02
Accession Nature of Board Square Meter Charges Rs.
No. Extent
Less than Between 03 An year
03 months to 06
months
01. Advertisements displayed on a Less than 1 250/- 350/- 500/-
wall or parapet wall
More than 1
02. Fabric, digital banners Less than 3 250/- 350/- 500/-
More than 3
03. Advertisements displayed Less than 1 500/- 750/- 1000/-
through metal sheets or wood
More than 1
04. electrically operated Less than 1 500/- 750/- 1000/-
advertisements
More than 1
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding
One Square Meter or part thereof
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding
Three Squares Meter or part thereof
Rs. 300/- per every Square Meter exceeding
One Square Meter or part thereof
Rs. 300/- per every Square Meter exceeding
One Square Meter or part thereof

<!-- page 32 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
32A
05. Advertisements displayed Less than 1 250/- 350/- 500/-
through polythene or cardboard
More than 1
06. Advertisements displayed Less than 1 250/- 350/- 500/-
through plastic boards or fiber
More than 1
07. Advertisements displayed using Less than I 750/- 850/- 1000/-
electrical equipment
More than 1
BY-LAW ON PARKING OF THREE-WHEELERS
1. These By-law shall be enforced for the purpose of parking, regulating and controlling of Three-wheelers within
the Urban Council area of authority (hereinafter referred to as “area”) and for levying charges on parking.
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law on Parking of Three-wheelers
3. Under this by law :
(1) The Three-wheeler parks within the limits of the Urban Council and the Maximum Number of Three-
wheelers to be parked at each park shall be decided on a resolution passed by the Council and such decisions
shall come into operation from the date of publication of them in the Gazette or from a date specified
therein.
(2) If the Council is of the opinion that the Number of Parks and the Number of Three-wheelers to be parked
therein, decided under Section (1) above shall be amended, it may be done by a resolution passed by the
Council and such amendment shall be published in the Gazette.
(3) The Council shall seek recommendations of the Committee consisting of the persons referred to in the
Schedule One in order to decide places of the Three-wheeler parks and to decide its ranges and the
maximum number of Three-wheelers that can be parked in each park or to amend such decisions.
(4) A board shall be fixed at each park in order to identify the three-wheeler parking places in terms of the
Section (1) above and the code number of the relevant park shall be displayed in the board. The maximum
number of Three-wheelers that can be parked shall be displayed in the said board in terms of Section (2).
(5) The Three-wheelers shall be properly parked and the manner in which they are to be parked shall be
marked by an authorized officer of the Council with a white or yellow line of 04 inches in width.
4. It shall be legal to issue a license arranged in compliance to this by-law by the Chairman for parking of three-
wheelers and to impose charges and collect charges for such purpose through a resolution passed at the Council.
SCHEDULE  02 ( Contd.)
Accession Nature of Board Square Meter Charges Rs.
No. Extent
Less than Between 03 An year
03 months to 06
months
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding
One Square Meter or part thereof
Rs. 200/- per every Square Meter exceeding
One Square Meter or part thereof
Rs. 500/- per every Square Meter exceeding
One Square Meter or part thereof

<!-- page 33 -->

33AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
5. When issuing licenses for Three-wheelers for the purpose of parking in a Three-wheeler park, priority shall be
given to the Three-wheelers owned by the nearest residents.
6. For the purpose of parking a Three-wheeler in the Three-wheeler Park nearest to the permanent residence, a
license shall be applied from the Urban Council and it shall be lawful for  the Council to decide from time to
time about the charges to be levied on issuance of such licence.
7. In case where the driver is the owner, the photo copies of the following documents of such person and in case
where the driver is a hired person, photocopies of such documents of both hired driver and the owner shall be
accompanied with the application. Such application shall be in the manner mentioned in the Schedule Two:-
(i) The National Identity Card and the Valid Diving License of the owner;
(ii) Certificate of Registration of the Three-wheeler;
(iii) The National Identity Card and the Valid License of the hired driver.
8. A register shall be maintained in respect of Three-wheelers which have been obtained licenses issued by the
Council and when such license is cancelled, it should be recorded with red ink.
9. Under this by-law licenses may be issued monthly, quarterly or annually for the purpose of parking Three-
wheelers.
10. A photocopy of the valid license issued under this by-law shall be displayed on the windscreen of the Three-
wheeler to be clearly conspicuous to the outside.
11. The right side of the Three-wheeler shall be blocked to prevent the passengers from getting in or getting out.
12. The license under this by-law shall be issued in the name of the registered owner of the Three-wheeler.
13. The license holder shall apply for extension of the license two weeks before the expiry of such license.
14. Three-wheelers shall not be parked in or entered into a Three-wheeler park unless the three-wheeler possesses
a valid license issued by the Chairman under this by-law.
15. Notwithstanding the possession of a valid license issued, a Police Officer or the Chairman or an Officer
authorized by Chairman may order temporary removal of three-wheelers from a Three-wheeler Park.
16. Other vehicle shall not be entered or parked in a park stated under this by-law.
17. Neither Three-wheeler nor any other vehicle shall be parked in the manner of blocking the entrance and the exit
of the Three-wheeler Park.
18. No any other repairs shall be done in the Three-wheeler Part other than the minimal repairs relating to removal
of the Three-wheelers from such park.
19. No Three-wheeler shall be parked in any other place awaiting hires other than the relevant parking place for
which the license has been obtained.
20. (1). These By-laws with regard to Three-wheeler parking shall be enforced from 06:00 hours to 20:00 hours
every day of the week.
(2). T ime indicated in Sub-section 20 (l) above may be amended by a resolution passed on the need of the
Council and such amendment shall come into effect after publishing a notification in the Gazette.

<!-- page 34 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
34A
21. At the time licensed Three-wheelers have been parked in a Three-wheeler park, the drivers shall not call and
allow outsiders to come into the park and loiter in the park.
22. No person shall use drugs or conduct immorality or commit any oppressive act in a Three-wheeler park and it is
a responsibility of the persons authorized to use the park, not to allow any person to commit such acts.
23. If there are any complaints from public regarding any misbehaving at Three-wheeler parks by any person who
possesses a license, the Council reserves the authority to inquire into those complaints and to cancel his license
if found guilty for the charges.
24. The driver or the owner of the Three-wheeler shall produce the original copy of the valid license on demand by
the Chairman, or an Officer authorized by him for this purpose, or a Police Officer.
25. (1) Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is
continued even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized
officer serves a written notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such
continued contravention, the maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty
and maximum of the additional penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils
Ordinance (Chapter 255).
(2). In the event where convicted by a court of proper jurisdiction as per Sub-section (l) above, the Chairman
shall annul the license in addition to the penalty imposed.
26. Unless other interpreation is required regarding the text of this by-law
“Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
“An Officer Authorized for the purpose by Chairman” means, any Officer of the Urban Council who has been
authorized by the Chairman;
“Area of authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established
“Three wheeler” means, the Three-wheeler parked for hiring.
“Hired Driver” means, a person who drives the Three-wheeler either the owner or any other person employed
for driving by the owner of the Three-wheeler;
“Parking Place” means, Three-wheeler Park determined on a resolution passed by the Urban Council;
“Specific Parking Place” means, a specific parking place for which a License has been issued by the Chairman
of the Urban Council;
“Monthly” means, each month starting from 1st consisting 28, 30 or 31 days as applicable.
“Quarterly” means successive three months starting from 1 st of January up to 31 st of December consisting of
the number of days as defined in “Monthly” ;
“Annually” means, a calendar year starting from 1 st of January and ending on 31 st of  December;
“Police Officer” means, the same interpretation as defined under Section 104 in chapter 53 of the Police
Ordinance No. 16 of 1865;
“Other Vehicles” means, the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance.

<!-- page 35 -->

35AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
“Registered Owner” means, the same interpretation as defined in the Motor Vehicle Ordinance;
“Act of Nuisance” means the same interpreation as defined in the Nuisance Ordinance.
SCHEDULE  ONE
The Road Committee to be appointed shall consist of the members mentioned below :
l. The Chairman of the Committee shall be the Chairman of the Urban Council and the Secretary shall be the
Revenue Inspector of the Council ;
2. The Secretary and the Technical Officer of the Urban Council ;
3. The Executive Engineer of the Road Development Authority or a representative nominated by him ;
4. The Chairman of the Provincial Road Development Authority or a representative  nominated by him;
5. The Chairman of the Road Passenger Transport Authority or a representative nominated by him;
6. The Chairman of the Sri Lanka Transport Board or representative nominated by him ;
7. The Officer in Charge of the Traffic in the Police Stations coming under the jurisdiction of the Council or a
representative from each station nominated by them ;
8. A representative from each Three-wheeler Drivers’ Union within the jurisdiction of the Council.
SCHEDULE   TWO
License for three-wheelers parking
1. Application :————.
(i) Name of Applicant :————.
(ii) Permanent Address :————.
(iii) Rates No.  :————.
(iv) Local Authority relating to Permanent Address :————.
(v) National Identity Card No. :————.
2. (i) Registration No. of the Three-wheeler :————.
(ii) State Whether the driver is the owner or the hired driver :————.
(l) If the driver is the owner, valid driving Licence No.  :————.
(2) If he is a hired driver :————.
Permanent Address :————.
N.I.D. No. :————.
Valid Driving Licence No. :————.
3. Three-wheeler park for which the license is applied.
4. Duration of the licence applied for a month/three months/a year.
I, declare that the above particulars furnished me are correct and I am aware that my licence for three-wheeler
park is liable to be cancelled without prior notice in case such particulars are found to be false and I agree to
comply with the provisions stipulated in the By-laws relating to the  parking of three-wheelers imposed by the
Urban Council.
.........................
Sginature of Applicant.
Date :.....................................................

<!-- page 36 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
36A
I approve the grant of licence to Mr./Mrs ................................................................................................for parking the  Three-
wheeler No. ...........................................................................at ..................................... ..................Three-wheeler park  for a
period of .........................................
CHAIRMAN,
........... Urban Council.
BY LAW   RELATING   TO   CHARGES   LEVIED   ON   SERVICES
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize services provided by Urban Council and charges levied on such
services.
2. This by-law shall be cited as By-law Relating to Charges Levied on Services Supplied by Urban Council.
3. The following shall include services related to this by-law
(1) Issuance of application forms. It includes the following:
(i) Applications for enrollment to pre-schools conducted by the Urban Council
(ii) Applications for library membership for libraries conducted by the Urban Council
(iii) Applications to request for citations from rates document
(iv) Application for supplier registration
(v) Application to obtain a certificate on Street Lines
(vi) Application to obtain a certificate on non-transfer
(vii) Applications to obtain the service of machines belonging to the Council
(2) Issuance of certificates. It includes the following:
(i) Certificate on Street Lines
(ii) Certificate on non-assignment/acquisition
(iii) Certificate on rights related to rates documents
(iv) Certificates confirming citations from rates documents
(v) Certificates confirming evaluation announcements issued
4. Charges levied on each service described under Section 3 of this by-law shall be decided from time to time
through a resolution passed at the Council.
5. (1) Under every application form stated under Sub-section (1) of Section 3 above or along with each such
application, a set of instructions to ensure correct filling of application should be included.
(2) For every such application issued, unless the charges set out in Section 04 of this by-law had been paid
and the relevant receipt had been produced, no application form shall be issued.
6. (l) Every person described under Section 3(2) of this by-law shall, after fulfilling the requirements specifically
stated under the relevant application form, forward the relevant application form to the Chairman or an
officer specifically authorized by Chairman to the said task.
(2) No application partially completed or unable to satisfy the requirements stated in the application form
shall be accepted and where an accepted application relates to a service  stated under Sub-section (2) of
above Section 03, the Chairman or the officer specifically authorized by him shall be responsible for the
dispatch of details pertaining to accomplishment of the relevant service within 3 day of accepting the
application.

<!-- page 37 -->

37AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
7. Where a duly filled application is accepted by the Chairman or an officer specifically authorized by him, charges
specified in Section 04 of this by-law shall be levied for such application and every application forwarded thus
shall be documented.
8. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
9. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by-law
“Council” means the Urban Council
“ Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
“Authorized Officer” means a person functioning under a specific duty assignment of the Council for the purposes
of this by-law.
BY-LAW   RELATING   TO   PLAYGROUND
1. This by-law shall be enforced to regularize, control and supervise public playground located in Urban Council
area of authority.
2. This by-law shall be cited as the “By-law relating to Playground of Urban Council Area of Authority
3. (1) Any person intending to obtain a permit to use a playground belonging to Urban Council shall forward an
application prepared according to the format stated in the First Schedule of this by-law
(2) Charges levied on an application shall be fee decided from time to time by a resolution adopted at the
Council.
4. Unless the following stated conditions have been satisfied by a person submitting an application as stated in by-
law 3 to use a playground belonging to Urban Council, the Chairman shall not issue permits.
(1) Every application received by the Urban Council Office requesting to use playground shall be considered
in the order of reception of those applications by the Urban Council.  However, among the application
received to use a playground, priority shall be given to applications relating to certain sport or matter
connected to a sport.
(2) The permit shall only be issued after payment of playground reservation fee and deposit fee in the manner
decided and published by the Urban Council from time to time.
5. An application to reserve a playground for use shall be submitted at least three days before the said reservation
date. The request made by whosoever a person shall be submitted three days prior to the expected reservation
date, during office hours.
6. Where an applicant needs to cancel a reservation of a playground reserved as per provisons of this by-law, the
Chairman may consent to cancellation subjected to the following conditions.

<!-- page 38 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
38A
(1) In the event where the request for cancellation in submitted prior to
(i) three months of the reservation date, 5 percent from the fee paid ;
(ii) two months of the reservation date, 10 percent from the fee paid ;
(iii) one months of the reservation date, 15 percent from the fee paid ;
(iv) fifteen dates of the reservation date, 25 percent from the fee paid ;
(v) seven days of the reservation date, 50 percent from the fee paid ;
(vi) three days of the reservation date, 75 percent from the fee paid ;
shall be retained under the Urban Council Fund.
(2) Where the cancellation request is made prior to a period less than 3 days of the reservation date, the fee
paid shal not be paid back.
(3) In the event of reservation being cancelled, the applicant has the right to completely recover the deposit
amount paid while making the said reservation.
7. A playground reserved by a person shall not be used for any other purpose other than the reserved purpose
8. A permit issued in the event of reserving a playground shall not be transferred to other person on any grounds.
9. Where a .consideration is not given for a request made by a person for reservation of a playground, the Chairman’s
duty shall be to inform the said applicant in writing on the same day the request was made, while mentioning the
reasons for such rejection .
10. In the event of where a playground reserved for certain purpose needs to be changed of date of such reservation
the applicant may make a request-in-writing. to the Chairman to that effect. An  alteration as per such request
shall comply with regulations stipulated in by-laws 4 and 5.
11. In any occasion where a playground is not reserved for any purpose as per provisions stated in this by-law, it
shall  be the duty of the Chairman to allow such playground to· be utilized for playing or sports training activities.
12. After using a playground for the particular purpose for which it was allocated, from the amount deposited at the
Urban Council, subsequent to deducting-
(i) the value of loss caused to playground or part therein, if there is any such;
(ii) the amount payable for the duration of time extended than the prescribed period of reservation of the
playground;
any balance amount remaining shall be paid back to the applicant.
13. No person shall damage or cause to damage any playground functioning under the Urban Council and cattle,
swine, horses, ponies or dogs shall not be entered into the playground. Furthermore, without permission obtained
from the Chairman, no vehicle shall be entered into a playground.
14. Where a playground reserved under this by law is required for an urgent purpose of the Urban Council on the
same day of such reservation, the Chairman shall have authority to cancel the reservation. However, if such
cancellation is carried out, it should be informed to the applicant 03 days prior to the date of reservation
wherein the total amount and deposit paid by him shall be  paid back to him. However; any such cancellation
shall not be carried out within less than 3 days prior to such reservation.
15. Contravention of any provisions of this day by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such
offence by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued
even further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves  a

<!-- page 39 -->

39AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
written notice drawing attention to such contravention of violation, for each day of such continued contravention,
the maximum of the additional penalty impossable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordiance.
16. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires :
“Councis’ means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
“Urban Council Area of Authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.
“Playground” means a ground allocated by Urban Council for playing and includes any parapet wall or fence
built around the playground, a building or part of building constructed within such playground and any fixings
and equipment thereof.
“Sports” means the same meaning an interpreted in the Sports Act, No. 25 of 1973.
SCHEDULE   I
APPLICATION   FOR   OBTAINING   PERMISSION   TO   USE.............................................PLAYGROUND   OF
................................................ URBAN   COUNCIL
01. Name of the Applicant :..................................................................................................... .............................
Address  :........................................................................................................................................................
National Identity Card No. :...........................................................................................................................
02. Purpose the playground requested for  :..................................................................................... ..............................
03. Date and time of reservation :
Date : from to....................................to ............................
Time : .................................................................................
I certify that above mentioned information is true and accurate, I hereby agree to allow the Urban Council to
recover any damage caused to buildings, constructions, equipment and fixings of the said playground from the
deposit amount in the event where the said playground is reserved as per this request and where the said deposit
amount is not sufficient for recovery of the said loss, to pay any amount required in balance to Urban Council.
I also agree to comply with the provisions of by-laws relating to regularization, control and supervision of
playgrounds.
.......................................
Signature of Applicant.
Date :...............................................

<!-- page 40 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
40A
SCHEDULE II
Fee Chart for Levying Charges on Playground use
Name of Playground Fee Deposit Amount Additional Fee per
Rs. Cents Rs. Cents Hour
Rs. Cents
01.
02.
03.
04.
05.
BY-LAWS   RELATING   TO   SALE   OF   MEAT
1. This by-law shall be enforced to inspect sale of meat and regularize, supervise and control meat selling places
within the Urban Council area of authority and to levying charges on such business.
2. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law Relating to Sale of Meat within the Urban Council Area of Authority.
3. No person shall without obtaining a valid license issued under provisions of this by law by the  Chairman of
Urban Council, use any premises within Urban Council Area of Authority for the  purpose of selling meat.
4. Provided that the sales premises applied for obtaining a licence under this by law is in conformity with the
conditions set out below, the Chairman shall not issue a licence to any person to carry on a meat sales centre.
(1) The place where meat is exhibited for sale shall be laid with tiles or plastered with cement or applied with
rust proof metal sheets.
(2) The floor of the premises where meat is exhibited for sale and the floor of the stores shall be finished off
with cement or laid with tiles.
(3) There shall be drains finished off with cement or laid with tiles with the necessary gradient to facilitate
the flow of waste water.
(4) While sufficient precautions shall be put in place to prevent the waste water draining through the drains
referred to in Sub-section (3) flowing to any public source of water, action shall be taken to drain off such
waste water to a suction pit.
(5) The suction pit put in place to accept waste water shall not be opened to the air.
(6) While containers sufficient to hold biodegradable waste produced at the meat market shall be made
available, action shall be taken at the end of the day’s sales to ground such waste material at least 0.5
meters deep in the ground or dispose in accordance with provisions decided upon by the Urban Council
from time to time.

<!-- page 41 -->

41AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
(7) While water-sealed lavatory facilities sufficient for the use of the persons working in the premises shall
be made available, suitable sanitary methods and material to be made use of after the use of the lavatory
shall be supplied.
(8) A name board in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages denoting license holder’s name, address, license
No. and the place to be a Meat Selling Stall; shall be fixed in his place of trade by the license holder.
5. Provided that the meat is of an animal slaughtered at a slaughter house formally licensed under the provisions
of the Butchers Ordinance, no person shall sell or exhibit for sale meat at any meat stall.
6. At the end of the daily sales of any licensed meat stall action shall be taken to wash and clean with disinfectant
fluid the floor, the tiled or cemented parts of the walls, logs used to cut meat, other utensils and the places
exhibiting meat for sale.
7. Action shall be taken to maintain in perfect conditions and devoid of any bad smell the drains in and around any
licensed meat stall and all the containers and utensils used in storing, processing or sale of meat.
8. Provided that meat left behind unsold at the conclusion of daily sales at the licensed meat stall are stored in a
deep freezer and the said deep freezer had been properly activated from the time of storage until the opening of
the stall for sales on the following day no species of meat left behind unsold shall be sold or exhibited for sale
or kept in the deep freezer or at the licensed stall on the following day.
9. When the Authorized officer has gazetted a proclamation under the provisions of the Butchers Ordinance
prohibiting the slaughter of animals in any slaughter house for food during a certain day or over a period of time
no meat stall shall keep meat for sale or exhibit meat for  sale or store meat at any meat stall.
10. Any licensed meat stall shall be kept devoid of dogs, cats, rats, insects or any other animal.
11. Except instruments and containers used for storage or processing or sale of meat no other goods or clothes or
mats used for sleeping or any other material shall be kept at the licensed stall.
12. Action shall be taken to keep drinking water in sufficient quantities for the use of employees serving in the
licensed premises.
13. (I) Provided that the period of infection or of incubation of a infectious, contagious or skin disease has not
elapsed no person suffering from such disease or had contacted such a disease in the recent past or had
been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall engage himself or employ
anybody or let anybody else engage in any form of sale or as an assistant of any person engaged in sale at
any meat stall.
(2) Provided that a person is dressed in washed and clean clothes no person shall engage himself or employ
anybody else in any form of sale at a meat stall.
(3) It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all employees deployed at the meat stall to a medical test at
least once a year.
14. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply safety facemasks, gloves and other safety materials necessary to
the employees and to ensure that they are wearing these safety materials when they are on duty at the meat stall.
15. It shall be the duty of the licensee to provide soap or soap fluid for the use of all persons employed at the
licensed premises.
16. While it shall be lawful for the Chairman or an Authorized Officer to buy a sample of any kind of meat kept for
sale or displayed for sale or stored inside the premises of any meat stall, no licensee shall desist or prevent
such purchase.

<!-- page 42 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
42A
17. (l) Provided that all waste material produced at the licensed premises are recycled, action shall be taken to
categorize the waste material under the categories. -
(i) bio degradable waste;
(ii) glass;
(iii) paper or paper based materials;
(iv) polythene and plastics or material based on polythene and plastics;
(v) iron and other kinds of metal or parts of iron and other kinds of metal ;
(vi) left-over from other raw materials made use of in the production process or by products or other
parts produced in the production line;
(vii) dangerous waste;
and it shall be the duty of the licensee to see that they are put in separate containers or tanks put in place for
that purpose.
(2) Provided that the waste put in containers or tanks having being categorized in the manner set out in Sub-
section (1) above is disposed of under the programme of waste management launched by the Urban Council,
the final disposal shall be done in the manner prescribed by the Chairman.
18. The appropriate time for inspection of the provisions of the by-laws in this part by the Chairman or by an
Authorized Officer shall mean any occasion meat sales are done at the meat-stall.
19. In the event of the premises where sale of meat is carried on under a licence issued under the by-laws of this
part fails to maintain it in accordance with any one of the provisions set out in Section 04 or contravenes the
provisions of any by-law of the by-laws set out in this part the Chairman shall take action to issue a notice to the
said licensee demanding him to accomplish necessary conditions to restore the said premises to the prescribed
position before a specified date.
20. Any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 19 shall act in the manner prescribed in the notice
before the date specified in the notice. At any time when acceptable reasons have been forwarded in writing, the
Chairman shall have the power to extend the date specified in the said notice, However, the period of such
extension shall not exceed more than fourteen days.
21. When any licensee in receipt of a notice mentioned in Section 20 fails to act in accordance with the manner set
out in the notice before the date specified in the notice or the date extended it shall be lawful for the Chairman
to cancel the licence issued to that premises.
22. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 (Chapter 255)of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
23. Unless other interpretation is required regarding the text of this by law,
“Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council
“Urban Council area of authority” means the area in which the Urban Council has been established.

<!-- page 43 -->

43AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
BY-LAWS   RELATING   TO   FUNERAL   SERVICE   SUPPLY   CENTRES
01. This by-law will be enforced to regularize, supervise and control funeral services supply centers within the
Urban Council Area of Authority.
02. This by-law shall be cited as the By-law relating to Funeral Service Supply Centers.
03. Provided that a valid licence issued by the Chairman of Urban Council for the particular function has been
obtained no person shall maintain funeral service centre within the Urban Council area of Authority.
04. Every licence issued under Section 03 of this by-law, unless it is cancelled earlier by the Chairman, shall be
valid up to 31st December of the year for which it had been issued.
05. Unless the following conditions in the By-laws of this part are fulfilled, the Chairman of Urban Council shall
not issue a licence to a funeral service centre.
(I) While there shall be a separate room for preparing dead bodies in the building where a funeral service
centre is maintained and the room shall have at least space not below nine square meters to prepare one
dead body. Moreover, a concrete slab sufficient for use in this task shall be made available.
(2) While the room where the dead bodies are prepared shall always be located separate from the exposition
hall of the Funeral Service Centre, action shall be taken to prevent outsiders entering without permission.
(3) Windows allowing fresh air to the room where the dead bodies are prepared shall have been set up to an
extent not less than one seventh of the area of the room.
(4) While sufficient receptacles to temporarily dump parts of the dead bodies removed in the process of
preparing them shall be made available, non-opaque receptacles that could be securely closed so as to
prevent entry of flies, rats or other animals shall also be provided to collect blood flowing out of the dead
body while it is being prepared or other fluids or waste water generated in the event of the body being
washed and due to whatever reason those waste shall never be allowed to flow into a public drain, public
canal or external lands.
(5) When arrangements are being made to keep dead bodies at the licensed premises for public homage,
action shall be taken to provide a sufficient number of chairs for the convenience of the people who come
to pay last respects to the dead body and to allocate parking facilities for the vehicles of such guests.
(6) When displaying the coffins and wreaths intended for sale, the room or hall where such display is maintained
shall be covered in black glass not transparent to the outside.
6. Any person requesting a license under the provisions of the By-laws in this part shall forward to the Chairman
of the Urban Council an application substantially prepared according to the specimen given in Schedule I to this
part.
07. It there is no order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Death in respect of a dead body, the parts
of the body removed in the process of preparing, it shall be securely interred in a pit 1.2 Meters deep from the
ground level before the elapse of six hours after the completion of preparatory activities.
08. If there is an order issued by a Magistrate or an Inquirer into Sudden Deaths in respect of the parts of a dead
body removed in the process of preparing it, it shall be the duty of the licensee to act according to the order.

<!-- page 44 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
44A
09. When there is no sufficient space at the funeral service centre to carry out the activities mentioned in Section
7, action shall be taken to securely inter the body parts at the depth prescribed in that by-law at the public
cemetery of the Urban Council on payment of a fee to be decided by the Council from time to time.
10. The room where the dead bodies are prepared shall be maintained cleanly always having applied disinfectants.
11. It shall be the duty of the licensee to supply security clothes, face masks and gloves in the manner prescribed by
the Chairman of Urban Council to all the employees serving in the rooms where dead bodies are prepared and to
ensure that these employees wear those clothes and other apparatus when preparing dead bodies.
12. It shall be the duty of the licensee to refer all the employees being employed at the licensed premises to a
medical examination at least once a year.
13. The interior of the vehicle or vehicles transporting dead bodies shall be cleaned with vacuum cleaners and
disinfected at least once per day.
14. Polythene or any other non-decaying material shall not be used to cover the inside of a coffin or the entire dead
body or a part of the dead body unless the dead bodies are in such a condition as to make it impossible to
prepare due to excessive injuries caused or due to any other reasons.
15. Unless there is written permission granted to the licensee by the Chairman of Urban Council under the conditions
prescribed by him, no person shall bring or allow anybody else to bring a dead body of a person presumed to
have died due to cholera, plague, smallpox, yellow fever or AIDS to the licensed centre.
16. No dead body shall be accepted by the licensee for preparing the body and organizing funeral arrangements,
unless a formal death certificate issued by the Registrar of Deaths on the particular death has been forwarded to
him.
17. When the death is a sudden death or when the death is suspicious, any order given with regard to the final rites
of the said corpse through a report issued subsequent to completion of an inquiry made by a Magistrate or an
Inquirer into Sudden Deaths, the licensee shall carry out the provisions stated in that order.
18. Where there is any order given through a report made by a Magistrate or Inquirer into Sudden Deaths with
regard to final rites of the said corpse, the licensee shall carry out the provisions of that order.
19. It shall be the duty of the licensee to maintain cleanly and hygienically the place where as dead body is kept for
public homage.
20. Nobody shall perform any activity within the premises of the funeral services centre that would cause harm or
inconvenience to residents living close to the funeral service centre, or allow such things to happen.
21. Contravention of any provisions of this by-law is deemed to be an offence and when convicted for such offence
by a court of relevant jurisdiction, the penalty imposed thereon and where such contravention is continued even
further and being convicted for that offence or where the Chairman or other authorized officer serves a written
notice drawing attention to such contravention or violation, for each day of such continued contravention, the
maximum of the additional penalty imposable shall be the maximum penalty and maximum of the additional
penalty stated under Sub-section (2) of Section 153 of the Urban Councils Ordinance.
22. In this part, unless the context otherwise requires -
“'Council” means the Urban Council
“Chairman” means the Chairman of Urban Council

<!-- page 45 -->

45AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRA  ORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.12.2015
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of Urban Council
“Funeral Service Supply Centre” means a centre where a dead body is prepared so as to preserve it for sometime
or where a dead body is prepared for last rites or place where a dead body is kept for public homage under a fee
until it is taken to the cemetery for last rites;
“Preparing of dead bodies” means preparing a dead body of a person by preserving it temporarily so as to pay
last respects, dressing a dead body, placing the body in a coffin and doing any other thing in this regard.
“Parts of the dead body” means any limb removed from the body of a dead person, or part of a limb or internal
organ or blood flowing out of the body or any other fluid or any dress or dresses worn by the person at the time
of death or any part of such dress or bandages, gauze or any other thing found in an injured part of the body.
SCHEDULE   “A”
APPLICA TION   FOR   A   LICENCE   TO   MAINATIN   A   FUNERAL   SERVICE   SUPPLY   CENTER
01. Full name of the Applicant :........................................................................................................................................
02. Permanent Address of Applicant  :.............................................................................................................................
03. Temporary Address of Applicant  :............................................................................................................................
04. Applicant’s National Identity Card No.  :.........................................................................................................................
05. Applicant's Telephone No.  :........................................................................................................................................
06. Area of Authority applied for  :...................................................................................................................................
07. Area of authority applicant resides in  :.........................................................................................................................
08. License period required  :.................................................................................................. ........................................
09. Registered numbers of vehicles carrying out funeral services:
I hereby agree to maintain the Funeral Service Center according to the regulations accepted by the Urban
Council and I am well aware that contravention of the relevant by-law or any section therein to be a  punishable
offence.
..............................
Signature of Applicant.
Date :..............................................
01-489
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.