

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
 AL-JAMIATHUL GHAWSIYYAH
(INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 101]
————————
Presented by Hon. K. Kader Masthan M.P. for Vanni District
on 07th April, 2016
(Published in the Gazette on February 29, 2016)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
to incorporate the Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
2-PL 009890 — 225 (04/2016)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah (Incorporation)
2—PL 009706—300 (02/2016)
Preamble.
Short title.
Incorporation
of the
Al-Jamiathul
Ghawsiyyah.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE AL-JAMIATHUL GHAWSIYYAH
WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the “Al-
Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah ” has heretofore been established by
His Holiness Assaiyyidh Asseikh Abdur Rasheed Koya
Thangal Al-Qadhiriyyah Wa, - Refaiyyah devoted genuine
services for Islam and for the purpose of effectually carrying
out and transacting all objects and matters connected with
the said Institute according to the rules agreed to by His
Holiness Assaiyyidh Asseikh Abdur Rasheed Koya Thangal
Al-Qadhiriyyah Wa, - Refaiyyah:
AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore
successfully carried out and administered smoothly the
several objects and matters for which it was formed and has
applied to be incorporated and it is for the public advantage
to grant such application:
Be it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Al-Jamiathul
Ghawsiyyah (Incorporation) Act, No.   2016.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many incorporation of the persons as
presently are members of the Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah
(hereinafter referred to as the “Institute”) or shall hereafter
be admitted Ghawsiyyah members of the Corporation hereby
constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to
as the “Corporation”) with perpetual succession under name
and style of the “Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah” and by that
name may sue and be sued in all courts with full power and
authority to have and use a common seal and alter the same
at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
established are hereby declared to be—
(a) to conduct classes to promote religious discourses
of the Holy Quran, Hadhees, Fiqhu and Hiflu;
General
objects of the
Corporation.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to organize the teaching of Arabic grammar and the
study of laws of Shafee, Hanafee, Hambali and
Maliki Mazhahs;
(c) to conduct and promote researches on the above
discourses and learning of Quran by memory;
(d) to conduct commemorative events of Holy Prophet
Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihiwa Sallam and of
other leading saints as may be deemed relevant and
necessary;
(e) to conduct research into the life history and
activities of the founder of the Qadhiriyyah Thareeq
His Holiness Quthbul Aqthab Ashheikh Assaiyyid
Muhyiddeen Abdul Qadir Jeelani (Qaddasallahu
Sirrahul Azeez) of other leading;
(f) to conduct convocations for the award of certificates
for students who complete the Moulavi course
and/or Hiflu course;
(g) to conduct weekly Qadhiriyya Rathib and Annual
Kanduri Feast;
(h) to promote the study of Urudu and other languages;
(i) to maintain the Madrasa library of Islamic Sciences
equipped with relevant books and promote the
reading interest of the Madrasa students;
(j) to conduct and promote the studies on the basic
principles of Ahulus Sunnath Waljama’ath through
the above library and Madrasa ;
(k) to equip the library with books to conduct
researches to promote the Islam Religion and the
Thareeqas and Madrasa; and

<!-- page 4 -->

3Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(l) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary,
conducive or incidental to the attainment of all or
any of the objects of the Corporation as stated above
and at the discretion of the rightful descendants of
successors of the Late Founder of the  Al-Jamiathul
Ghawsiyyah His Holiness Assaiyyidh Ashheikh
Abdur Rasheed Koya Thangal Al-Qadhiriyyah War-
Rifa’iyyah (Qaddasallahu Sirrahul Azeez).
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary and desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to
borrow or raise money with or without security,to receive or
to collect grants and donations from the Mureedeens,
Muhibbeens, followers and well-wishers and to invest its
funds to construct any buildings on any land vested in, or
acquired or held by the Corporation, and to engage, employ
and dismiss personnel for the purpose of carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The Spiritual Heads of the Corporation shall be
the Life Patrons of the Corporation as long as they continue
to be such Spiritual Heads His Holiness Assaiyyidh Asshheikh
Koya Thangal Al-Qadhiriyyah War-Rifa’iyyah
(Qaddasallahu Sirrahul Azeez).
(2) The Spiritual Heads of the association on the date of
commencement of this Act and thereafter, are namely—
(a) His Holiness Assaiyyidh Hassan Koya Thangal ;
(b) His Holiness Assaiyyidh Hussain Koya Thangal ;
(c) and their rightful descendants and successors as
nominated by them.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being fo the Corporation, be
administered by a Board of Administration consisting of
such number of persons as may be provided for in such rules
and appointed periodically by the Life Patrons at their sole
discretion.
(2) The first Board of Administration of the Corporation
shall be the Executive Committee of the Corporation holding
office on the day preceding the date of Commencement of
the Law.
(3) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time to time,
at the discretion of the Life Patrons to make rules, not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law.
(4) Any such rule made may be amended, altered or added
to, or rescinded at the discretion of the Life Patrons.
(5) The lands and buildings of the Institute is the property
of the Late Founder His Holiness Assaiyyidh Asshheikh
Koya Thangal Al-Qadhiriyyah War-Rifa’iyyah
(Qaddasallahu Sirrahul Azeez) and his heirs and successors.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and
moneys received by the Fund of the way of testamentary
dispositions, transfers, donations shall be deposited in the
name of the Corporation in one or more banks as the Life
Patrons shall determine.
(2) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exercise
and discharge of powers and functions of the Corporation
shall be paid out from the fund.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of  purchases, hold
property grants, gifts, testamentary disposition immovable or
Fund of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah (Incorporation)
5
otherwise and such property movable and shall be held by
the Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to
the rules in immovable force for the time being of the
Corporation and it shall have the full power  to sell, mortgage,
lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same at the
discretion of the Board of Administration.
9.  The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of office
bearers as may be provided for in the rules of the Corporation.
Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence, such signing shall be independent of
the signing of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
10
15
20
Seal of the
Corporation.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Al-Jamiathul Ghawsiyyah (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .