

<!-- page 1 -->

NATIONAL SECURITY LEVY (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 21 OF 1999
PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
[Certified on 27th July, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 30, 1999.
PRINTED  A T  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICA TIONS  BUREAU, COLOMBO 1
Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 3.50
(Internet Version)

<!-- page 2 -->

1National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1999
[Certified on 27 th July, 1999]
L.D.–O.65/98.
A N  ACT   TO  AMEND  THE  NATIONAL  SECURITY  LEVY
A CT , NO . 52 OF  1991
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :
1. This Act may be cited as the National Security Levy
(Amendment) Act, No.21 of 1999.
2. Section 3 of the National Security Levy Act, No.52 of
1991 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is
hereby amended as follows :-
(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of all
the words from “every quarter of every year
commencing on or after” to the end of that
subsection, and the substitution of the following
therefore: -
“every quarter or part thereof of every year
commencing on or after January 1, 1997
(hereinafter referred to as “the relevant quarter”)
a National Security Levy” (hereinafter referred
to as “the levy”) on the turnover or part thereof,
of that person for that quarter or part thereof,
calculated at the appropriate rates specified in
the Schedule to this Act.”
(2) in subsection (2) of that section -
(a) by the substitution in paragraph (g) of that
subsection, for the words “taken out of Sri
Lanka for repairs, and” , of the words “taken
out of Sri Lanka for repairs;”.
(b) by the substitution in paragraph (h)of that
subsection, for the words “owned or chartered
by such airline or shipping company”, of the
words, “owned or chartered by such airline or
shipping company; and”
Short title.
Amendment of
section 3 of Act
No. 52 of 1991.
H - 022545

<!-- page 3 -->

2 National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1999
Amendment of
Section 4 of the
principal
enactment.
(c) by the addition, at the end of that subsection,
of the following paragraph:-
“(i) the proceeds from the sale of any article, or
any sum received or receivable in respect of
the provision of any service to the United
Nations Organisation or to any specialized
agency of such Organization or to the
diplomatic mission of any foreign Government
or to any member of the diplomatic staff of
such mission”.
3.  Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows:-
(1) in paragraph (g) of that section by the substitution,
for the words and figures “for every quarter of every
year commencing on or after January 1, 1997”. of the
words and figures “for every quarter commencing
on or after January 1, 1997 but prior to October, 1,
1998;”, and
(2) by the addition, immediately after paragraph (g), of
the following paragraph:-
“(h) for the quarter commencing on October 1, 1998-
(i) an amount equivalent to -
(A) four and one half Per centum of the
turnover of that person not being
turnover referred to in item (B) of this
sub-paragraph; and
(B) one half Per centum of the turnover of
that person arising from the import or
manufacture of any plant, machinery or

<!-- page 4 -->

3National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1999
equipment, not being any motor car,
motor coach or lorry within the meaning
of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),
for the period commencing on October 1, 1998
and ending on November 5, 1998, in that quarter,
on or before the fifteenth day of November, 1998;
(ii)  an amount equivalent to -
(A) five and one half per centum of the
turnover of  that person, not being
turnover referred to in item  (B) of this
sub-paragraph; and
(B) one half Per centum of the turnover of
that person arising from the import or
manufacture of any plant, machinery or
equipment, not being any motor car,
motor coach or lorry within the meaning
of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),
for the period commencing on November 6, 1998
and ending on November 30, 1998, in that quarter,
on or before the fifteenth day of December, 1998;
(iii)the amount of the levy payable by such
person for that quarter reduced by the
aggregate of the amounts paid by him in
accordance with the provisions of sub-
paragraph (i) and sub-paragraph (ii) of this
paragraph, on or before the fifteenth day of
the month immediately succeeding the end
of that quarter; and

<!-- page 5 -->

4 National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1999
(i) for every quarter commencing on or after
January 1, 1999–
(ii) an amount equivalent to -
(A) five and one half per centum of the
turnover of  that person, not being
turnover referred to in item  (B) of this
sub-paragraph; and
(B) one half Per centum of the turnover of
that person arising from the import or
manufacture of any plant, machinery or
equipment, not being any motor car,
motor coach or lorry within the meaning
of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),
for the first month of that quarter, on or before the
fifteenth day of the second month of that quarter,
(ii)  an amount equivalent to –
(A) five and one half per centum of the
turnover of  that person, not being
turnover referred to in item  (B) of this
sub-paragraph; and
(B) one half Per centum of the turnover of
that person arising from the import or
manufacture of any plant, machinery or
equipment, not being any motor car,
motor coach or lorry within the meaning
of the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),
for the second month of that quarter, on or before
the fifteenth day of the third month of that quarter;
and

<!-- page 6 -->

5National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1999
(iii)the amount of the levy payable by such person
for that quarter reduced by the aggregate of
the amounts paid by him in accordance with
the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) and sub-
paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, on or before
the fifteenth day of the month immediately
succeeding the end of that quarter.”
4. The Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:–
(1) in item 7 of that schedule by the substitution for the
words and figures “every quarter of every year
commencing on or after January 1, 1997”, of the words
and figures “every quarter of every year commencing
on or after January1, 1997 but prior to October 1, 1998;”.
(2) by the addition, at the end of that Schedule of the
following items:–
“8. For the quarter commencing on October 1, 1998–
(i) on turnover other than turnover referred to
in paragraph (ii)
(a) arising for the period commencing on
October 1, 1998 and ending on
November 5, 1998
4 1/2 per centum
(b) arising for the period commencing on
November 6, 1998 and ending on
December 31, 1998
5 1/2 per centum
Amendment of
the Schedule to
the principal
enactment.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1999
(ii) on turnover arising from the import or
manufacture of any plant, machinery or
equipment, not being any motor car, motor
coach or lorry within the meaning of the Motor
Traffic Act (Chapter 203)
0.5 Per centum
9. For every quarter of every year commencing on or
after January 1, 1999 –
(i) On turnover other than turnover referred to in
paragraph (ii), of this item
5 1/2 per centum
(ii) on turnover arising from the import or
manufacture of any plant, machinery or
equipment, not being any motor car, motor
coach or lorry within the meaning of the Motor
Traffic Act (Chapter 203)
0.5 per centum”.
5. where the Director- General of Customs collects during
the period commencing on November 6,1998 and ending on
the date of commencement of this Act, from an importer of an
article not being plant, machinery or equipment, an amount in
excess of four and one half per centum of the value of such
article, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes to
have been, and to be, validly made, and such Director -General
of Customs is hereby indemnified against all actions, civil or
criminal, in respect of such collection.
6. Where a person to whom this Act applies is required by
section 4 of the principal enactment as amended by section 2
of this Act, to pay to the Commissioner-General in respect of
the period from November 6, 1998 to the date of commencement
of this Act, an amount in excess of four and one half
per centum of  the turnover of that person for that period,
such person shall be deemed for all purposes, to have
Validation.
Transitional
provision.

<!-- page 8 -->

7National Security Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 21 of 1999
complied with the requirements of that section, if he pays to
the Commissioner-General, within thirty days of the date of
commencement of this Act, the difference between the amount
he was required by section 4 of the principal enactment as
amended by section 2 of this Act, to pay for that period, and
the amount paid, by him for that period, as the case may be.
Where such difference is not so paid, such difference shall be
deemed to be in default after the expiration of thirty days from
the date of commencement of this Act, and such person shall
be deemed to be a defaulter within the meaning of the principal
enactment, with effect from that date.
7.  The  amendment made to section 3 of the principal
enactment by section 2 (2) of this Act, shall be deemed for all
purposes to have come into force on April 1, 1999.
8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Retrospective
effect.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Annual subscription of  English Bills and Acts of   the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , No. 32,TRANSWORKS  HOUSE ,
LOTUS  ROAD , COLOMBO  01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.