

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
117
117
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 19th  June, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
05th May, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
W. A. A. G . FONSEKA,
Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 22, 2015.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... —
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 118
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"917- 2015 uehs ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'05'29
No. 1,917 - FRIDAY ,  MAY 29,  2015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
N.B.– (i)  Part  IV (A) of  the Gazette  No. 1,916 of 22.05.2015 was not published.
N.B.– The Catalogue of Books Printed Quarterly in June to September   2012 was   registered under  the Printers and
          Publishers Ordinance had been published in Part V of this  Gazette  in English  language only.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'05'29
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.05.2015
118
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/41065.
Provincial  Land  Commissioner's  No.: mbfld$6$fld$r;a$643.
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Purpose of Laying Waste Water
Pipeline, The  National Water Supply and  Drainage Board has
requested on lease  a state land  containing  in extent about  0.0240
Hec.  Forming  a portion of Lot No. 243 as depicted in the  Cadastral
Map No.  521003  and situated in the village of  Ratmalana which
belongs  to the  Grama Niladhari Division of  No. 546 C, Ratmalana
East coming  within the area of  authority of Ratmalana Divisional
Secretariat in the  District of Colombo.
    02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Proceeding  Way ;
On the East by : Lot No. 243 ;
On the  South by : Bangalawa Road  ;
On the West by : Lot No. 244 .
The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following  Conditions   : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty   Years (30),  ( From 10.12.2014
on wards);
The Annual  Rent of the Lease. – 4% of the Undeveloped
value of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer for
the year 2014. This  amount of the lease must be
quinquennially revised  in such a manner that the amount
as  a result of the  revision will be not  less than  50% of the
amount that just preceded.
Premium  - Three times of the annual  amount of the  lease;
(b) The lessee must not use this  land  for any purpose other
than Commercial Purpose (Laying  Waste Water Pipeline);
(c) This  lessee must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the said  land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessee must also be subject to the  other  special
conditions stipulated and  imposed  by the Divisional
Secretary and by other institutions  ;
(e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(f) Permission will  not be given for other sub - leasing or
vesting except for  vesting within the sub  leasing  or vesting
for the  purpose for  which the   land  was  obtained until
expiry of 05 years from 10.12.2014  ;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
UBUDI PREMADASA ,
Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,  Land Secretariat,  "Mihikatha Medura",
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
31st  March, 2015.
05-813
According to the
Cadastral Map
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.