

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'12'21
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA - 21.12.2018
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 2053$42 - 2018 ckjdß ui 12 jeks isl=rdod - 2018'01'12
No. 2053/42 - FRIDAY,  JANUARY  12, 2018
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
SRI LANKA ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING STANDARDS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1995
Publication under Section 4 (2)
By virtue of the powers vested in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to as the
"Institute"), the Institute has adopted the Amendments to Amendments to SLFRS 9 - Prepayment Features with
Negative Compensation with effect from 01
st   January 2019, published herewith for the purpose of the Sri Lanka
Accounting and Auditing Standards, Act, No. 15 of 1995. This Amendments shall be effective for financial statements
covering period commencing on or after the first day of January Two Thousand Nineteen. Earlier application is
permitted.
By Order of the Council,
A
RUNA ALWIS,
Secretary .
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka,
No. 30A,
Malalasekera Mawatha,
Colombo 07.
12th January 2018
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
 1A-  PG 4749 —   (2019/11)
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018¡01¡12  
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
Amendments to SLFRS 9 - Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 
Paragraph 7.1.7 is added. A new heading and paragraphs 7.2.29–7.2.34 are added. 
Chapter 7 Effective date and Transition 
7.1 Effective date 
… 
7.1.7 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation  (Amendments to SLFRS 9), issued in 
December 2017, added paragraphs 7.2.29 –7.2.34 and  B4.1.12A  and  amended paragraphs 
B4.1.11(b) and B4.1.12(b). An entity shall apply these amendments for annual periods beginning 
on or after 1st January 2019. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies these 
amendments for an earlier period, it shall disclose that fact. 
7.2 Transition 
… 
Transition for Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 
7.2.29 An entity shall apply Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation (Amendments to SLFRS 
9) retrospectively in accordance with LKAS 8, except as specified in paragraphs 7.2.30 –7.2.34.
7.2.30 An entity that first applies these amendments at the same time it first applies this Standard shall 
apply paragraphs 7.2.1–7.2.28 instead of paragraphs 7.2.31–7.2.34. 
7.2.31 An entity that first applies these amendments after it first applies this Standard shall apply 
paragraphs 7.2.32 –7.2.34. The entity shall also apply the other transition requirements in this 
Standard necessary for applying these amendments. For that purpose, references to the date of 
initial application shall be read as referring to the beginning of the reporting period in which an 
entity first applies these amendments (date of initial application of these amendments). 
7.2.32 With regard to designating a financial asset or financial liability as measured at fair value through 
profit or loss, an entity: 
(a) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial asset as measured at fair value through=
profit or loss if that designation was previously made in accordance with the condition in=
paragraph 4.1.5 but that condition is no longer satisfied as a result of the application of=
these amendments;
(b) may designate a financial asset as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that =
designation would not have previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.1.5 but that =
condition is now satisfied as a result of the application of these amendments;
(c) shall revoke its previous designation of a financial liability as measured at fair value=
through profit or loss if that designation was previously made in accordance with the=
condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that condition is no longer satisfied as a result of the=
application of these amendments; and 

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018¡01¡12  3A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.01.2018 
(d) may designate a financial liability as measured at fair value through profit or loss if that
designation would not have previously satisfied the condition in paragraph 4.2.2(a) but that
condition is now satisfied as a result of the application of these amendments.
Such a designation and revocation shall be made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that 
exist at the date of initial application of these amendments. That classification shall be applied 
retrospectively. 
7.2.33 An entity is not required to restate prior periods to reflect the application of these amendments. 
The entity may restate prior periods if, and only if, it is possible without the use of hindsight and 
the restated financial statements reflect all the requirements in this Standard. If an entity does not 
restate prior periods, the entity shall recognise any difference between the previous carrying 
amount and the carrying amount at the beginning of the annual reporting period that includes the 
date of initial application of these amendments in the opening retained earnings (or other 
component of equity, as appropriate) of the annual reporting period that includes the date of initial 
application of these amendments. 
7.2.34 In the reporting period that includes the date of initial application of these amendments, the entity 
shall disclose the following information as at that date of initial application for each class of 
financial assets and financial liabilities that were affected by these amendments: 
(a) the previous measurement category and carrying amount determined immediately before
applying these amendments;
(b) the new measurement category and carrying amount determined after applying these
amendments;
(c) the carrying amount of any financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of
financial position that were previously designated as measured at fair value through profit
or loss but are no longer so designated; and
(d) the reasons for any designation or de-designation of financial assets or financial liabilities
as measured at fair value through profit or loss.
In Appendix B, paragraphs B4.1.11(b) and B4.1.12(b) are amended. Paragraph B4.1.12A is added. 
Paragraph B4.1.10 has not been amended but has been included for ease of reference. New text is 
underlined and deleted text is struck through. 
Classification (Chapter 4) 
Classification of financial assets (Section 4.1) 
… 
Contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount 
outstanding 
… 

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018¡01¡12  
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
Contractual terms that change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows: 
B4.1.10 If a financial asset contains a contractual term that could change the timing or amount of 
contractual cash flows (for example, if the asset can be prepaid before maturity or its term can be 
extended), the entity must determine whether the contractual cash flows that could arise over the 
life of the instrument due to that contractual term are solely payments of principal and interest on 
the principal amount outstanding. To make this determination, the entity must assess the 
contractual cash flows that could arise both before, and after, the change in contractual cash flows. 
The entity may also need to assess the nature of any contingent event (ie the trigger) that would 
change the timing or amount of the contractual cash flows. While the nature of the contingent 
event in itself is not a determinative factor in assessing whether the contractual cash flows are 
solely payments of principal and interest, it may be an indicator. For example, compare a financial 
instrument with an interest rate that is reset to a higher rate if the debtor misses a particular number 
of payments to a financial instrument with an interest rate that is reset to a higher rate if a specified 
equity index reaches a particular level. It is more likely in the former case that the contractual 
cash flows over the life of the instrument will be solely payments of principal and interest on the 
principal amount outstanding because of the relationship between missed payments and an 
increase in credit risk. (See also paragraph B4.1.18.) 
B4.1.11 The following are examples of contractual terms that result in contractual cash flows that are 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding: 
(a) a variable interest rate that consists of consideration for the time value of money, the credit
risk associated with the principal amount outstanding during a particular period of time
(the consideration for credit risk may be determined at initial recognition only, and so may
be fixed) and other basic lending risks and costs, as well as a profit margin;
(b) a contractual term that permits the issuer (ie the debtor) to prepay a debt instrument or
permits the holder (ie the creditor) to put a debt instrument back to the issuer before
maturity and the prepayment amount substantially represents unpaid amounts of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding, which may include reasonable additional
compensation for the early termination of the contract; and
(c) a contractual term that permits the issuer or the holder to extend the contractual term of a
debt instrument (ie an extension option) and the terms of the extension option result in
contractual cash flows during the extension period that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding, which may include reasonable additional
compensation for the extension of the contract.
B4.1.12 Despite paragraph B4.1.10, a financial asset that would otherwise meet the condition in 
paragraphs 4.1.2(b) and 4.1.2A(b) but does not do so only as a result of a contractual term that 
permits (or requires) the issuer to prepay a debt instrument or permits (or requires) the holder to 
put a debt instrument back to the issuer before maturity is eligible to be measured at amortised 
cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (subject to meeting the condition in 
paragraph 4.1.2(a) or the condition in paragraph 4.1.2A(a)) if: 
(a) the entity acquires or originates the financial asset at a premium or discount to the
contractual par amount;
(b) the prepayment amount substantially represents the contractual par amount and accrued
(but unpaid) contractual interest, which may include reasonable additional compensation
for the early termination of the contract; and
(c) when the entity initially recognises the financial asset, the fair value of the prepayment
feature is insignificant.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018¡01¡12  5A 
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.01.2018 
B4.1.12A For the purpose of applying paragraphs B4.1.11(b) and B4.1.12(b), irrespective of the event or 
circumstance that causes the early termination of the contract, a party may pay or receive 
reasonable compensation for that early termination. For example, a party may pay or receive 
reasonable compensation when it chooses to terminate the contract early (or otherwise causes 
the early termination to occur).  
Amendments to LKAS 28 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 
Equity method 
14A An entity also applies SLFRS 9 to other financial instruments in an associate or joint venture to 
which the equity method is not applied. These include long-term interests that, in substance, form 
part of the entity’s net investment in an associate or joint venture (see paragraph 38). An entity 
applies SLFRS 9 to such long-term interests before it applies paragraph 38 and paragraphs 40–43 
of this Standard. In applying SLFRS 9, the entity does not take account of any adjustments to the 
carrying amount of long-term interests that arise from applying this Standard. 
Application of the equity method 
… 
41 [Deleted] The entity applies the impairment requirements in SLFRS 9 to its other interests in the 
associate or joint venture that are in the scope of SLFRS 9 and that do not constitute part of the 
net investment. 
… 
Effective date and transition 
… 
45G Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures, issued in December 2017, added paragraph 
14A and deleted paragraph 41. An entity shall apply those amendments retrospectively in 
accordance with LKAS 8 for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, 
except as specified in paragraphs 45H –45K. Earlier application is permitted. If an entity applies 
those amendments earlier, it shall disclose that fact. 
45H An entity that first applies the amendments in paragraph 45G at the same time it first applies 
SLFRS 9 shall apply the transition requirements in SLFRS 9 to the long-term interests described 
in paragraph 14A. 
45I An entity that first applies the amendments in paragraph 45G after it first applies SLFRS 9 shall 
apply the transition requirements in SLFRS 9 necessary for applying the requirements set out in 
paragraph 14A to long-term interests. For that purpose, references to the date of initial application 
in SLFRS 9 shall be read as referring to the beginning of the annual reporting period in which the 
entity first applies the amendments (the date of initial application of the amendments). The entity 
Paragraphs 14A and 45G–45K are added and paragraph 41 is deleted. Deleted text is struck through.  

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh ‐› ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2018¡01¡12  
PART I  : SEC.(1) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 12.01.2018 
is not required to restate prior periods to reflect the application of the amendments. The entity 
may restate prior periods only if it is possible without the use of hindsight.  
45J When first applying the amendments in paragraph 45G, an entity that applies the temporary 
exemption from SLFRS 9 in accordance with SLFRS 4 Insurance Contracts is not required to 
restate prior periods to reflect the application of the amendments. The entity may restate prior 
periods only if it is possible without the use of hindsight.  
45K If an entity does not restate prior periods applying paragraph 45I or paragraph 45J, at the date of 
initial application of the amendments it shall recognise in the opening retained earnings (or other 
component of equity, as appropriate) any difference between: 
(a) the previous carrying amount of long-term interests described in paragraph 14A at that
date; and
(b) the carrying amount of those long-term interests at that date.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA 
12 - 05