

<!-- page 1 -->

N. B.–   Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 2,160 of 24.01.2020 was not published.
Note.–  Ports and Airports Development Levy (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the  Gazette of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 24, 2020.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
wxl 2"161 – 2020 ckjdß ui 31 jeks isl=rdod – 2020'01'31
No. 2,161 – FRIDAY ,  JANUARY 31, 2020
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  20th  February 2020 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 7th February 2020.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2020.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
29 - B 082003-602 (2020/01)
  
                               PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
                               PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 30

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'31
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020
30
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’ s No. : 4/10/47717.
Deputy Land  Commissioner’ s No. : UPLC/L/4/RM/L-10.
NOTIFICATION   MADE UNDER  STATE  
LAND  REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose,                    
Mr. Rathnayaka Mudiyanselage Senarath Banda Rathnayake 
has requested on lease a state land containing in extent about 
Hectare 2.1205 shown in approximate by colonization ofﬁ cer 
situated in the Village of Kudaoya which belongs to the Grama 
Niladhari Division of 2 E, Velampole coming within the area 
of authority of Rideemaliyadda Divisional Secretariat in the 
District of Badulla.
02.  Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by : Land belonging to Piyasena 
Dissanayake and D. M. Punchi 
Bande;
On the East by : Road and Land belonging to D. M. 
Premarathne;
On the  South by :  Road and Land belonging to R. M. 
Chandralatha;
On the West by :  Paddy Land and highland 
belonging to R. M. Chandralatha.
03.  The land  requested can be  given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has 
intended to lease out the land subject to other Government 
approved conditions.
 
 ( a) Term of  Lease.–  Thirty years. (30) (From 18.10.2019 
onwards)
  The Annual Rent of the Lease. – 2% of the marked value 
of the land, as per valuation of the chief value for the 
year 2018, When the annual value of the land is less 
than Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000) for that year. 
4% of the market value of the land, as per valuation 
of the chief value for the year 2018, When the annual 
value of the land is less than Rupees Five Million                                                                                    
(Rs. 5,000,000) for that year. This lease amount should 
be revised once in every ﬁ ve years and 20% of the 
lease amount charged in the ﬁ nal year of the preceding 
05 year period should be added to the annual lease 
amount.
  Penalty :  Not charged.
 ( b) This lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as 
to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary;
 ( c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes other 
than for the purpose of commercial activities;
 ( d) This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary and by other Institutions ;
 ( e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
  (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 
 (g)   No sub -  leasing can be done until the expiry of 
a minimum period of 05 years from the date of  
18.10.2019;
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of the date herein below to the effect 
that this land must not be given on lease, the land will 
be leased out as requested.
  W. A
YODHYA S. JAYAWARDANA,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,”Mihikatha Medura”,  
Land Secretariat, Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
31st  January 2020.
01-663

<!-- page 3 -->

  III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'01'31
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2020 31
Land Commissioner General’ s No. : 4/10/59409.
Provincial Land  Commissioner’ No. : NCP/PLC/L6/
Vihare/Mahavilachchiya.
NOTIFICATION   MADE UNDER  STATE  
LAND  REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that for the Religious Purpose  
Nellikulama Sri Sambuddha Panchagathika Sharwaka 
Charikarama Viharastha kaarya Sadaka Samithiya has 
requested on lease a state land containing in extent about 
1.5243 Hectare marked in approximate tracing drawn to 
show as portion of Lot No. 730 in the Plan No. FTP 07 and 
situated in the Village of Oyamaduwa with belongs to the 
Grama Niladhari Division of No. 358, Oyamaduwa coming 
within the area of authority of Mahavilachchiya Divisional 
Secretariat in the District of Anuradhapura.
02.  Given below are the boundaries of the land requested.
On the North by : Lots No. 729 in FTP 07;
On the East by : Government Forest;
On the  South by :  Road reservation and Portion of  
 Government Forest;
On the West by :  Portion of Road reservation and  
 Lot No. 730 in FTP 07.
  The land  requested can be  given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has 
intended to lease out the land subject to other Government 
approved conditions.
 
(a)  Term of the Lease .–  Thirty years. (30) (From 
15.11.2019 Years Onwards)
  The Annual Rent of the Lease. – 1/2% of the 
Undeveloped value of the land as per valuation of the 
chief value for the year.
  (b) The lessee must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as 
to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary;
 ( c) The lessee must not use this land for any purposes other 
than for the purpose of constructing the Viharasthanaya;
 ( d) This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary/ Scoping committee/ Board of Investment 
of Sri Lanka and by other institutions;
 ( e) The buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
  (f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 
 (g)   No sub - leasing  can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years, from 15.11.2019, except 
sub leasing or transferring to fulﬁ ll the purpose of hub 
lease.
 
 (h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date of publishing this 
notiﬁ cation to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
  P
UBUDI PREMADASA,
 Assistant Land Commissioner,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,”Mihikatha Medura”,  
Land Secretariat, Rajamalwatta Road, 
Battaramulla.
31st January 2020.
01-664
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.