

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2008
623
623
wxl 1"552 _ 2008 uehs 30 jeks isl=rdod _ 2008'05'30
No. 1,552 – FRIDAY , MAY 30, 2008
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 625
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... —
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication . All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due  regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 06th June, 2008, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 23rd May, 2008.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2008.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N. B.- Part II of the Gazette No. 1,551 of 23.05.2008 was not published.
N. B.— (i) National Institute of Textile and clothing Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 18th  April, 2008
(ii) Grant of Citizenship to persons of chinese origin (special provisions) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of  the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 02nd  May, 2008.
(iii) Public enterprises reform commission of Sri Lanka (repeal) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  of 02nd  May, 2008

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2008
624
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2008
625
Posts - Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  TRADE,  MARKETING  DEVELOPMENT,
CO-OPERATIVES  AND  CONSUMER  SERVICES
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka
POST OF DOCUMENTS & DA TA ASSISTANT
APPLICA TIONS are invited from those qualified for the above
vacancy at the National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka.
Applications prepared in A4 size papers in accordance with the
specimen form published at the end of this notice should be forwarded
by registered post to reach the Director General, National Intellectual
Property Office of Sri Lanka “Samagam Medura”, 3rd Floor, D. R.
Wijewardana Mawatha, Colombo - 10, on or before 21st June, 2008.
Applications not in accordance with the specimen form or received
after the closing date will be rejected. “The post of Documents &
Data Assistant” should be mentioned in the left hand corner of the
envelope.
01. Post :
Documents & Data Assistant
(Number of posts - 03)
02. Education and other qualifications :
(i) A degree in Information Technology or Information
Technology as a subject from a recognized University.
(ii) Ability to work in English is essential for this post.
03. Monthly Salary Scale :
Rs. 15,215-10x215-4x240-7x320-15x360-Rs. 25,965
(according to Public Administration Circular No. 06/2006-iv)
04. Age limit.– Applicants must be over 18 years and not more
than 45 Years. Upper age limit does not apply to those already
employed in state/provincial service.
05. Conditions of employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) The selected applicant should contribute to widows’/
widower’s and orphans pension fund,
(iii) Provisions of paragraphs 10-12 in Chapter II of the
Establishment Code shall apply.
(iv) Shall gain proficiency in Official languages as per provisions
of public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 dated
28.05.2007 within 05 years of date of appointment.
06. Method of Recruitment .– The selection will be made from
those who score the highest marks in a structured interview.
07. Other.– The applicants already employed in state/provincial
service must submit their applications through the respective Head
of the Dept./Institution.
Director General of Intellectual Property.
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka,
“Samagam Medura”,
3rd Floor,
D. R. Wijewardana Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
For official use only
Specimen Application Form
National Intellectual Property Office of Sri Lanka
Post of Documents & Data Assistant
01. Name with initials: Mr. /Miss. / Mrs.:––––––––.
02. Name in Full :––––––––.
03. Permanent Address :––––––––.
04. Postal Address :––––––––.
05. National Identity Card Number :––––––––.
06. Sex:––––––––.
07.(i) Date of Birth:  Year:––––.    Month:––––.     Date:––––.
(ii) Age as at 21.06.2008 Years:–––.  Months:–––. Days:–––.
08. Civil Status:––––––––.
09. Educational Qualifications :
Degree Y ear Subjects Class University
10. Declaration of the applicant:
I …………………………… declare that all information given
above are true to the best of my knowledge. I am aware that I shall
not be entitled to be interviewed if the above particulars are found to
be inaccurate or wrong and that I shall be liable to be dismissed from
service without compensation if the same is proved after recruitment.
––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
Date:––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh _ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h _ 2008'05'30
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.05.2008
626
11. Certification of the Head of the Department/Institution for
the applicants already employed in State/Provincial Service.
I hereby inform that Mr./Miss./Mrs. ……………………… the
applicant, is presently employed as a permanent/temporary/casual/
trainee officer in this Minsitry/Department/Institution. He/She has
not been subjected to any disciplinary action (other than warning)
and he/she can be/cannot be released, if selected.
––––––––––––.
Signature of the Head of
the Dept./Institution
(Official seal).
Date:––––––––.
Designation:–––––––––.
Ministry/Dept./Institution:–––––––––.
05-663
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.