

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1923$7 - 2015 cQ,s ui 13 jeks i÷od - 2015'07'13
No.1923/7  - MONDAY   JULY  13,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha  Pradeshiya  Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section ix(k) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha
from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
02nd February, 2015.
BY LAW RELATING   OFFENSIVE TRADES, DANGEROUS TRADES AND OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS TRADES OR BUSINESS
1. These by-laws are enforced for the purpose of making provisions for regulating, supervision, controlling
offensive trades, dangerous trades and offensive and dangerous trades and for levying fees from such business
carried out within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
2. No person within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha Authority limits shall conduct or maintain an offensive
trade, dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade, shown in the schedules herein, unless such person is in
possession of a license issued by the Chairman.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
2A
3. Every license issued shall be vaild until the 31st of December of the year for which it is issued unless such
license is cancelled earlier.
4. No person shall have the right to obtain a license for carrying out an offensive trade or dangerous trade or
offensive and dangerous trade, unless such premises and if any building thereon to be used for the purpose, do
not conform to following conditions.
(a) Premises shall be in good repaired condition and shall have proper ventilation and lighting and every
room when opened, the area of the windows fixed shall be less than 1/15 of the floor area of the room.
(b) Height of every part of the walls of every room shall not be less than 2.14 metres and be built with bricks,
rubble stones, kabok, bricks, or with cement block and inner wall shall be cement plantered at least to a
height of 2 meters from the floor, and the remaining portions of the wall shall be lime plastered and
colour washed.
(c) End of every roof shall be 02 meters in height from the floor level
(d) Roof shal be covered with some permanent roof material.
(e) All wood work shall be oil painted or be lime washed.
(f) The entire floor shall be paved with cement.
(g) Premises shall be provided with adequate drainage facilities.
(h) The premises shall have sanitary dust bins and be provided with adequate toilet facilities.
5. Every license holder shall take action to store, all the materials required for maintaining the business, in such a
manner so as to prevent emanation of any bad smell or causing any type of inconveinece.
6. A license holder, when conveying offensive or smelling materials through a public place or on a high road shall
pack such material in covered and impermeable container or bags so that no hindrance is caused.
7. Every license holder shall take action to prevent offend able nose steams, fumes or gas emanating while in the
process of production and release to the atmosphere in such manner, without causing any harmful effects or
else cause the exit of such substance by firing or through solid faying equipment.
8. Every license holder shall build adequate drains in the premises where his business if carried out and maintain
them properly by daily washing and cleaning them properly.
9. Every license holder shall build the floor of the premises where the business is to be carried out with some
impermeable material and shall  maintain such premises in good repair condition and shall clean daily.
10. Every license holder, during the period when his business is being carried out shall see that the premises are
colour washed annually.
11. Every license holder shall keep all wares and articles including equipment and utensil used in the process of
business activities clean and tidy.
12. Every license holder shall daily dispose all waste materials getting collected in the premises where the business
is carried out such as sweepings, garbage, any remanants and by products, if they are not utilized immediately in
the business activities by storing them in covered containers and as directed by the Pradeshiya Sabha.
13. Every license holder shall clean and empty water tanks used for washing and soaking leather or any other
materials, preventing emanation of any bad odour or smell and when required.
14. No license holder shall allow to flow or cause to flow into any river, water way, canal, well, lake or any drain,
polluted, filthy and smelling water or any other liquid fluid or shall not pollute a river, canal waterway, sluice,
well, lake tank or any water filled open area by washing any offensive substance or by any other means.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
15. It shall be lawful, for the Chairman or for any other Officer of the Council who is generally
or specially authorized by the Chairman for such purpose to enter into any premises where
an offensive trade or dangerous trade or offensive and dangerous trade is carried out and
the license holder or the person who is in charge of such place shall assist them to make
such inspection.
16. Whenever at any inspection, if it is detected that a licensed place or premises is not being
maintained according to the provisions stipulated in these by laws, the Chairman has the
power to inform the license holder in writing to take necessary action to regularize such
premises conforming to provisions of these by laws within a specified period of time. The
license holder shall take necessary action accordingly and if he fails to do so the Chairman
has the power to cancel the license at such situation.
17. It is the duty of the Chairman, whenever any application forwarded by any person to obtain
a license to conduct any trade or business under these regulations, to issue such license
within 30 days of the receipt of such application. If such place  conform to provisions of
these by laws and if such place does not conform to proviosions of these by laws and if
such application is to be rejected the applicant shall be informed of the reasons for doing
so.
18. Every license  holder shall make arragements to display a list of empolyees, in Sinhala and
Tamil languages who are employed in the trade or business for which a license issued,
together with their names and addresses, at a conspicuous place of such premises.
19. Every notice issued under these by laws shall be delivered  to the owner or to the person in
charge of the premises, depending on such circumstance, If such person is not present,
such notice shall be affixed at a conspicuous place of such business premises. The name
of the owner of the place, or the names of the person using such place need not be
mentioned in such notice.
20. In any occasion when a number of business of industries, requiring a license under Section
164 of the  Ordinance, carried out at one place, the license fees for each industry or
business shall be levied separately for such each industry or business.
21. Contraventions of anyone or several or all the bylaws herein shall be an offence and when
convicted in a court of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when
such contravention is committed continuously and when convicted, or in case of contineous
contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman or by an officer authorized
by him, the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of continuing a such
contravention shall be as defined under sub Section (2)a of Section 122 of  Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
22. The fine imposed  under By Law No. 21 shall be deposited in the General Fund of Pradeshiya
Sabha.
23. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by laws :
“License holder” means a person to whom a license is issued under these by laws to
carry out any business
“Person” means and included incorporated or non co-operated board of individuals too
“Person in charge” means and includes watcher, or guardian, custodian, guardian of
property manager or other person to whom, the administration or management or
organization of any business is vested or behalf of certain person.
“Council” means Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
4A
“Pradeshiya Sabha Authority Area” means Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha
“An Authorized Officer” means officer or officers who are authorized by the Chairman to enforce these by
laws.
24. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and the English texts of these by laws the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
1ST  SCHEDULE
OFFENSIVE TRADES
1. Manufacturing manure of chemical manner or storing
2. Leather taming
3. Sale of leather
4. Animal husbandry (for meat, milk or eggs)
5. Keeping a studio
6. Keeping Veterinary hospital
7. Storing perishable food items and food stuff for sale.
8. Storing dry fish, salted fish and Jadi exceeding a quantity of 150 kilograms
9. Production of cocount shell charcoal, wood charcoal and storing charcoal
10. Caring tobacco and keeping a store
11. Manufacture of animal food and keeping a store
12. Manufacture of poonac and storing over 200 kilograms
13. Manufacturing soap
14. Grinding animal bones and keeping them
15. Storing new or scrap iron
16. Keeping a store for metal scap articles
17. Manufacture of household furniture and storing
18. Manufacture of rattan articles
19. Keeping a carpentary workshop
20. Manufacture of fruit drinks and cyrup
21. Manufacture of all kind of sweet meats
22. Soaking cocount husks (or decomposing)
23. Manufacture of brushes (except tooth brush)
24. Manufacture of tooth brushes
25. Collection of toddy
26. Manufacture of viengar and storing
27. Keeping a mechanically or manualy operated timber depot
28. Storing over 100 liters of painting ink, varnish and distemper paints.
29. Manufacture of soda
30. Production of leather goods
31. Canning fruits, fish and other food items
32. Keeping a grinding mill for grinding chillies, coffee, cereals, and spices or flour milling
33. Manufacture of candles
34. Manufacutre of camphor
35. Production of writing ink, printing ink and stencil ink
36. Manufacture of blue for washing clothes
37. Production of liquor
38. Manufacture of scent and powder and keeping a store
39. Production of school chalk
40. Storing a quantity of over 50 tyres and tubes
41. Rebuilding tyres
42. Keeping a depot for vulcanizing tyres and tubes
43. Storing over 1000 kilograms of cement

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
44. Manufacture of cement articles and asbestos cement articles.
45. Manufacture of plastic goods
46. Weaving textiles by machines
47. Sale of bags which contained manure lime powder and other substances after cleaning
48. Producting of cement brick by machines.
49. Storing over 250 kilograms of cereals
2ND  SCHEDULE
DANGEROUS TRADES
1. Storing quantities of flour, salt or suger exceeing 750 kilograms for whole sale
2. Manufacture of ready made garments
3. Keeping a printing press
4. Keeping a poultry farm or a poultry yard having over 100 birds
5. Keeping a hut or a shed for over ten goats and pigs
6. Storing bricks and tiles
7. Keeping a firewood depot
8. Blasting or digging granite stones by manual or mechanical menas.
9. Manufacture of soft drinks or storing over 100 soft drink bottles
10. Production of ice cream
11. Production of coconut oil and storing in quantity exceeding 100 litres
12. Manufacturing match boxes and storing in quantity exceeding 100 dozens
13. Production of articles from coir or from any other kind of fibre or storing such items.
14. Storing used garments.
15. Making gold ornaments and repairing them
16. Sawing timber mechanically
17. Keeping a factory of malice tool sad equipments
18. Storing empty bottles and gunnies.
19. Keeping work shop for repairing bicycles and motor cycles.
20. Storing used papers and news papers
21. Keeping a picture framing centre
22. Production and storing fire works and crackers.
23. Storing coconut oil and other vegetable oil quantity exceeding 50 litres.
24. Storing frozen fish or  meat
25. Storing timber.
3RD SCHEDULE
OFFENSIVE AND DANGEROUS TRADES
1. Curing cinnamon, cloves, cardamom or other kinds of fibre by using chemical substance.
2. Dry cleaning dyeing
3. Textile printing or dying
4. Keeping an electro plating centre
5. Burning and treating lime stones and dolomite or storing ash line.
6. Keeping a battery charging or repairing centre
7. Keeping a motor car repairing garage
8. Maintaining a motor car service station.
9. Keeping a tinkering shed
10. Keeping gas cylinder store
11. Production or dispensing ayurvedic and indigenous drugs
12. Storing glassware or sheet glass

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
6A
13. Maintaining a plastic or fibre products factory
14. Storing tea in quantity exceeding 150 kilograms
15. Keeping welding work shop
16. Maintaining a lathe machine work shop
17. Maintaining a filling station for petrol, diesel oil or any kind of mineral oil
18. Manufacturing and storing agro-chemicals
19. Repairing or servicing air conditioners, fridges and deep freezers.
20. Maintaining an electrical work shop or electrical equipment production and repairing work shop
2 I. Keeping a milk chilling centre
07 - 1293/1
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha
BY   LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section (III) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha
from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subjects of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
2nd  of February, 2015.
BY LAW RELATING TO OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR LEVYING TAXES
1. This by law is cited as the by law relating to  obtaining information for levying taxes from all business places
and industries maintained in the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.
2. This by law is framed for the purpose of making provisons for obtaining periodical returns necessary for collection
of information required for preparing statements of accounts for levying taxes from all business places and
industries maintained with the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
3. All business and industrial institutions and organizations in the authority areas of Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha
shall maintain correct and genuine statements, and reports of accounts according to recognized norms of
accounting systems.
4. It is the duty of every person, subject to business tax, to render all information and copies of such information
in respect of all financial transactions and accounts relating to such infromation when required by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized on that behalf.
5. All business information and periodical returns of financial accounts required from time to time by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, shall be prepared based on recognized norms of accounting systems.
6. All that financial reports and statements of accounts to be forwarded under by-law No. 05 shall be audited and
be certified be a recognized auditor.
7. Any person whoever, who received a notice forwarded by the secretary or by an authorized officer of the
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha shall forwarded to the Secretary the information required by such notice with 14
days of the receipts of the notice.
8. Furnishing false information or failure to forward such information is an offence.
9. When it is required to check the information furnished in the periodical returns called for under by-laws No. 5
it is lawful for the Chairman or the person authorized by him to visit such place of business or the premises of
the industry and check the authenticity of such information from books and documents therein.
10. Contravening any of the provisions of this  by-laws  is an offence and when convicted in a court of law having
jurisdiction the maximum fine  and punishment imposable, and when such contravention is committed
contineously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice by
the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention the maximum additional
fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under Sub-section
2 of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
11. The fine imposed  under By Law No. 10 shall be deposited in the General fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
12. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by laws :
“Chairman” means Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Council” means Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman to inspect and supervice all activities of any
business place.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 1293/2

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
8A
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
 Udapalatha  Pradeshiya Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section xi (a) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
2nd February, 2015.
BY LAW RELATING  TO  CONTROLLING AND REGULATING ANIMAL FARMS
1. This by law is cited as the by law for controlling, administering, supervising and for regulating animal farms
maintained in the authority area of Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, for producing meats, milk or eggs or for
breeding purposes and for any other activities connected thereto and for levying fees.
2. The purpose of enforcing these by laws is to maintain all animal farms within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha
area, under good sanitary conditions without causing any damage, loss or inconvenience to public and to the
environment, and to take care of animals, according to recognized standards without harassing and torturing
them.
3. No person shall maintain any animal farm for producing meat, milk or eggs or for breeding except with a
license issued by the Chairman for such purpose.
4. A license issued under by law No.02 shall be valid till 31st of December for which it is issued unless it is
cancelled earlier.
5. A license fee shall be levied on all licenses issued under Sections 147 of Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of
1987. The Council shall determine the amount of fees to be charged from to time. Amended fees as such shall
be effective after publication in the Gazette.
6. Any person applying for license shall forward the application with the recommendation of the veterinary
doctor of the area. Applications shall be forwarded according to the form shown in the schedule herein.
7. Every animal farm licence shall carry the version “Licenced Animal Farm”, with the name and address of the
holder, clearly painted in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages on a board exhibit in outside of the farm.
8. Every licensee of an animal farm shall cause all walls and pillars of the farm to be colour washed once a year.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
9. Every licensee of an animal farm shall keep the farm and all buildings therein in good repaired condition and
under sanitary conditions and shall cause to clean and wash daily.
10. Every licensee of an animal farm shall cause to gather daily, all dung, urine and all other wastes from time to
time at short intervals, in order to keep the place clean and under good sanitary conditions and the wastes and
urine so gathered shall be placed in a covered vessel made of some permanent impermeable material or place
them in a pit built and paved with cement.
11. Every licensee of an animal farm shall cause to remove at least once a day all wastes, urine or waste water and
cause to dispose them making no any annoyance to others.
12. Every licensee of an animal farm shall get every animal in the farm, to be examined by the Government
Veterinary doctor and obtain a report and keep it with him and if he has made any recommendation that shall be
carried out immediately.
13. The animal farm shall be so erected, in such a way if in any situation when an animal or animals are afflicted
with any kind of infections, contiguous disease, to keep such animal or animals separated.
14. If any situation occurs as mentioned under by law No.13 the veterinary doctor of the area shall be informed.
15. No animal shall be killed or tortured at the place where they are kept or inside the farm.
16. Meat of an animal died owing to any infectious or contiguous disease shall be destroyed preventing human
consumption.
17. It is lawful for the Chairman or for an officer authorized by him in writing to enter any animal farm, at any
reasonable time and make an inspection.
18. Owner or the person in charge of the animal farm shall allow the Chairman or the officer authorized by him in
writing, to make inspections and shall render all assistance to the Chairman or to such officer.
19. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed
continuously and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice
by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum
additional fine imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under
sub-Section 2 of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
20. The fine imposed under By Law No. 19, shall be deposited in the General fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
21. For the purpose of these by laws unless the context otherwise requires-
“Council” means the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Authorized Officer” means an officer authorized by the Chairman.
“Animal” means any species or groups of animals reared for meat or milk or eggs or for breeding purposes.
22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07-1293/3

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
10A
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
 Udapalatha  Pradeshiya Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section x(a) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAY AKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
2nd of February 2015.
B
Y LAW RELA TING  I TINERARY TRADING
1. This by law is cited as the by law relating to itinerary trading in the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of  Udapalatha.
2. This by law is enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising and controlling of itinerary trading within the
Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha.
3. I. No person in any street or road or public ground or common garden or any public vehicle parking place set
apart or used for the purpose of parking carts, or motor vehicles or public bus stand, shall sell or keep for sale
or take here and there for sale any article whatsoever unless he is in possession of a license and an identity card
issued for such purpose by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. Chairman has the power to include any condition or conditions intended to be suitable in every license to be
issued.
5. Whenever a license is cancelled by a court having jurisdiction, such license shall immediately be returned to
the Chairman.
6. Every license issued shall be valid till the 31st of the year for which it is issued, unless it is cancelled by a court
having jurisdiction.
7. Every itinerary trader shall wear the identity card issued by the Chairman displaying it prominently at every
time when he is engaged in business.
8. It is the duty of every itinerary trader to produce his license and identity card when he is asked to do so by the
Chairman or by an authorized officer.
9. A licensed itinerary trader has the right to engage in trading between 6.00 a.m. to 10.00 p.m.  However, if the
Chairman has given him permission to engage in business outside such specified time period and if mentioned
so in license, such licensee has right to be engaged in business during such period.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
10. If the licensee is suffering from any contaguous disease, he shall refrain from engaging in business activities.
11. Every itinerary trader engage in the business of selling foods shall comply with the following requirements.
(i) Food taken for sale shall not be kept exposed to flies, dust, germs and bad odour, and shall not allow
customers to handle and touch them.
(ii) V ehicles, bicycles, carts, vessels and pans etc. and all equipment used for handling, contacting food shall
be kept cleaning daily.
(iii) Papers or any material used for wrapping food items shall be in suitable condition for such purpose.
(iv) Clean equipments, pots and pans shall be used for handling and cooking food.
(v) A person suffering from any contagious disease shall not be engaged in the sale of food.
(vi) Fire or fuel shall not be used causing any danger or hindrance to any individual or individuals.
(vii) Waste matter or waste water shall not be disposed on to any public place and arrangements shall be made
to dispose them under sanitary conditions according to the satisfaction of the Chairman.
12. Meat of any animal or animals mentioned under the cattle slaughter ordinance shall not be sold by any
itinerary trader.
13. The Chairman shall prohibit the sale of cooked food items by any itinerary trader when there is an epidemic
or infections disease spreading or where such a disease has already spread.
14. Itinerary trading is prohobited inside a public market.
15. Any itinerary trader shall not engage in business remaining at a place for a long time.
16. Contravening of anyone or several or all aforesaid by laws shall be an offence and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously,
and when convicted, or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defmed in sub Section (2) of Section 122
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987
17. The fine imposed under By Law No. 16, shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
18. For the purpose of these regulation unless context otherwise requires;
“Food” means food and bevarages used for human consumptions.
‘Itinerary trading means business carried out by bringing material by a person himself or by using an animal
or vehicle.
19. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 1293/4
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha
BY   LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.
156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
12A
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section (xxx) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
SARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province,
and the Minister in charge of the subjects of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
02nd of February 2015.
B
Y LAW RELATING  TO  NOTICE BOARDS
1. This By Laws are for the purpose of regulating and controlling advertisements displayed as visible to a road
within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha authority area and levying fees for such advertisements.
2. These By Laws are cited as the By Laws of Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha for regulating and controlling
advertisements and levying fees for such advertisements.
3. No person shall display or cause to display any advertisement as visible to any road except upon a license issued
for the purpose by the Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. Advertisement means drawing on boards, banners, cutouts, aluminum and iron sheets, polythene, cloths or
papers displayed as visible to a highway, by road, Provincial Council road or Urban Council road or else any
other notice prepared using galvanized iron sheet, a notice put up at any place of a house, shop, hotel, wall,
parapet wall using letters to advertise a trading place, trading article, business, trade exhibition, carnival etc.,
and any special notice at festival occasions.
5. Every application for a license to display any advertisement shall be forwarded to the Chairman, in form shown
in the Schedule herein at least seven days before the date or which the display of advertisement is intended to be
commenced.
6. Every application forwarded under By Laws No. 04, shall accompany following items.
(b) Written application addressed to the Secretary.
(c) Ground plan drawn on a scale in proportion to the situation of the erection displaying the advertisement.
(d) Drawing of the erection drawn on a scale not less than 1 : 1000 of the scale.
(e) Any amendments made in conformation of this By Law in the plan, drawing or in the specification.
(f) A copy of the advertisement drawn on a small scale, using all colours to be used for the advertisement to
be displaced.
(g) Plan showing situation of the advertisement proportionate to adjoining streets and main gound marks.
(h) Fees, duly published in the Gazette as resulted and determined by the Council.
(i) Any other information required for the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, for the purpose of granting approval
to display such an advertisement.
7. No person shall erect or caused to erect any board, bill board, notice board or any other erection for the
purpose of using for displaying an advertisement or propaganda notice within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha
authority area except according to drawing and specification approved by the Chairman of the  Udapalatha
Pradeshiya Sabha  and given upon a written documents.

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
8. Where an application under By Law No. 04 is approved by the Chairman of the Council, applicant shall not be
issued a license, until such time the specified fees, as per mentioned in the Gazette is paid and the size of the name
of the business place shall be determined by the Council.
9. Where a license issued to a person for displaying an advertisement, the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha shall direct
such person to insert the reference number of the advertisement and the name of the license holder in every
advertisement to be displayed by him.
10. The provisions of these By Laws shall not apply to any of the following advertisements, unless such advertisement
is an illuminated advertisement or sky sign.
(j) An advertisement relating to any entertainment, the net proceeds of which are to be used for any purpose
of charity.
(k) An advertisement relating to any entertainment to be held in the premises upon which such advertisement
is displayed
(l) An advertisement relating to a religious, political or public meeting.
(m) A “To Let” advertisement
(n) A “For Sale” advertisement
(o) Domestic name plate (the size of such  shall be determined by the Council)
(p) A name plate not 0.93 meters in area, used for professional purposes.
(q) An advertisement on a vehicle, used for trade purposes, displaying the nature of the trade or business and
name, address, telephone numbers of the owner of such vehicle.
11. No person shall,
I. Display an advertisement in such manner as to project over or across any street, road or by path,
carriageway ; or
II. Display an advertisement on any hoarding which exceeds more than 15 meters in height from the ground ;
or
III. Fixing or hanging form the facade of a building, abutting on any street or road and any name board of a
shop or an advertisement which the length exceeds beyond the limits of such building ; or
IV . Construction or erection in any manner, sky sign board without the prior approval of the Pradeshiya
Sabha.
12. No person shall cause any advertisement to be displayed on any place of religious worship or any public building
or private or public garden or bridge or carriageway, telephone or electricity post side wall, bank, bund, culvert,
mountain ridge or any river.
13. No person shall display any advertisement, unless such advertisement erected or constructed according to
specification approved by this Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha in any specifically defined area, passed by a resolution
of the Council and duly published in the Government Gazette.
14. No person shall in any street or within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha authority area.
(i) Shall carry or cause to carry on a board, hoarding or flame work any advertisement for display.
(ii) Shall not be lawful to use on any street or road, radio, gramophone, musical instrument, bell or any other
instrument for the purpose of displaying an advertisement or for propaganda purpose of any trade article,
without the permission of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
14A
15. (i) Where any advertisement is ugly or unsightly objectionable and harmful for public behaviour, the Urban
Council shall be written notice, direct the person causing the display of such advertisement to stop such
display within the time period specified in such notice.
(ii) A person to whom a notice under Sub section (I) served, shall comply with such notice within the time
period specified therein.
16. The owner or lessee of any hoarding used for display of advertisements shall,
(i) Maintain such hoarding in a proper condition of repair and security of persons and,
(ii) Exhibit his name and address in clear and legible letters in a conspicuous position on the front of such
hoarding
17. No person shall deface or cause to be defaced any sign, mark, letter, word or numeral which has been inserted
by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha on any advertisement, to show the payment of the fee for the license to
display that advertisement.
18. Contravening any of the provisions of these By-laws in an offence and when convicted in a court of law having
jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted or in the case of  continuous contravention after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be a defined under Sub-section 2 of
Section 122 of the  Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
19. The fine imposed under By Law No. 18, shall be depoisted in the General Fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
20. It is lawful for the Council to remove without any prior notice, all advertisement defined under By Law No. 04
herein, displayed within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha authority area, unless there is a license issued by the
Council.
21. Where after receiving permission to display and advertisement and even if the period of validity of a license
remains unexpected, a banner fixed on a wall or parapet wall and any cutout, advetisement board find to be
inclined, detached and fallen on the ground by wind or defaced and discoloured and broken down and is ugly and
objectionable in any form to the beauty of the town, the owner of the such advetisement shall be served a notice
and direct him to rebuild it and mend it within 14 days and in default the Council shall take action to remove the
same. If the Council is caused to remove such advetisement after 14 days by employing its labourers, the
Council shall not hold any responsibility regarding such notice.
22. For the purpose of these By Laws, unless the content otherwise required :-
 “Chairman” means Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Council” means Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
 “Advertisement” means any word, letter, number, sign, place, board, notice, device, model or representation
used wholly or partly for the purpose of advetisement over or resting upon any land, building or structure.
23. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
SCHEDULE - I
APPLICATION  FORM  FOR  ERECTING  A NOTICE  BOARD
1. Full Name of the Applicant :
2. Permanent Address :
3. Proposed advertisement details of business, function, exhibition, carnival, meeting or trade articles

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
4. Proposed place/places of the advertisement is attached :
5. Whether the model of the advetisement to be erected :
6. Type or propsed advetisement : (banner, board, cutout, wall or permanent)
7. Whether the applicant is agreed to make it to normal, when the advetisement is faded, unpasted or broken after
granting permit to exhibit the advertisement
I do hereby agree to abide the norms of  the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha regarding the exibition of the advertisement
and I am aware that contravening any of the by laws is punishable offence.
                                        ....................
Signature
Date :...................
The following documents are herewith attached :
1. A consent letter of the owner of the land, when the proposed advertisement is a permanent one.
2. If the advertisement drawn on a house, hotel, wall or other means a consent letter of the owner of the means.
3. A layout plan of the site of the advertisement to be erected.
4. The model of the advertisement should be clearly forwarded. (no alternation can be made on the model after
issue of permit)
SCHEDULE - 2
Serial Nature of the Board Size-Square Period 03 to 06 One year
No feet less than months charges
 03 months
Charges Rs Charges Rs. Charges Rs.
01 Advertisement exhibited on wall or 02 to 10 25.00 25.00 30.00
wall surface
Over 10 25.00 30.00 35.00
02 For textile digital banners 02 to 10 30.00 35.00 40.00
Over 10 35.00 40.00 45.00
03 Advertisement exhibited on a 02 to 10 35.00 40.00 100.00
metal sheet or wood
Over 10 40.00 45.00 100.00
04 Advertisement exhibited using 02 to 10 45.00 45.00 50.00
electricity
Over 40 50.00 55.00 60.00
05 Advertisement exhibited using 02 to 10 40.00 45.00 50.00
electronic devices
Over 10 50.00 55.00 60.00
06 Advertisement exhibited using 02 to 10 50.00 55.00 60.00
plastic of fiber
Over 10 55.00 60.00 65.00
07 Advertisements exhibited using 02 to 10 20.00 25.00 30.00
wax sheet or card board
Over 10 30.00 35.00 40.00
07 - 1293/5

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
16A
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha  Pradeshiya Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section xi(i) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
02nd February 2015.
B
Y -LAW RELATING TO SLAUGHTER HOUSES
1. This by law shall be cited at the by law in respect of regulating, supervising, inspecting and fee levying from the
slaughter houses situated within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area.
2. This by law is enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising, inspecting and controlling and for levying
fees from slaughter houses situated within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area.
3. Every slaughter house shall be in charge of an officer appointed by the competent authority and shall be called
and known as the slaughter house keeper.
4. No licensed butcher shall be allowed to slaughter animals except at such times as may be determined and fixed
from time to time by competent authority.
5. A licensed butcher shall slaughter animals only at such places within the slaughter house as assigned to him by
the slaughter house keeper.
6. No animal shall be slaughtered unless there is a permit issued in the printed form for slaughter of such animal,
after inspection by the Divisional Health Medical Officer or by an ~ officer authorized by him.
7. A certificate issued under by law No.06 shall be valid only for 07 days from the date of issue of such certificate.
8. A slaughter house keeper shallhave in his possession documents to prove the former ownership in respect of
every animal to be slaughtered including the description of animal and detail information regarding its previous
ownership and shall maintain and have in his custody a register giving all other information prepared according
to specific form approved by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
9. No person shall be permitted to admit into a slaughter house any animal if he fails to produce under mentioned
documents of confirmation to the slaughter house keeper prior to such admission.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
1. Identity certificate.
2. Competence certificate
3. Permit
10. All animals brought and kept at a slaughter house shall be properly tied up with ropes in the compound to
prevent their escape and exposing them to public view.
11. Every licensed butcher shall by himself register in the office of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha and the names
of the servants whom he desires to employ at the slaughter house in his  trade as butcher and the Chairman or an
officer authorized by him may refuse to register any particular name of a person or cancel the name of any
person already registered. Such licensed butcher shall not employ or continue to employ any person who is not
so registered or whose name has been so cancelled.
12. Every licensed butcher shall keep with the slaughter house keeper a certified copy of his license and also
certified copies of registration certificates of every servant whom he employs at the slaughter house as soon he
shall have obtained them.
13. The skins, bowels and offal of animals slaughtered shall be collected by the butcher or by his employees and be
kept in places set apart for the purpose in order to be washed and cleaned before removal.
14. The licensed butcher shall be responsible for any damage caused to the slaughter house, either by him or by an
act of his servants, when the said licensed butcher or his registered servants using the slaughter house and shall
be liable on demand to pay such costs for the damage done so and in failure of which the Chairman shall have the
option of either cancelling his license or of recovering the amount of such damage from the licensed butcher
and his sureties or both.
15. No person suffering from any skin disease, leprosy or any infections or contiguous disease shall be permitted
to enter into a slaughter house.
16. Transportation of meat from the slaughter house to meet stalls shall be done by vehicles provided by the
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, whenever possible and other than vehicles approved by the Chairman shall be
utilized for the same purpose.
17. Fees to be charged in respect of each animal shall be prescribed from time to time by the Council by resolution
in respect of following purposes:-
1. For the use ofthe slaughter house for:
a. Cattle (except buffaloes)
b. Pigs and goats
2. For feeding the cattle (for each period of twenty four hours or any part thereof)
a. Cattle (except buffaloes)
b. Pigs and goats
3. For occupation of shed:
a. Cattle
b. Pigs and goats.
18. The Chairman may cause, any animal which has been retained at the slaughter house for default of payment of
fees due on it, to be sold by public auction after giving two days prior notice by publicity; and shall out of the
proceeds of the sale, retain any fees due on the animal and expenses incurred in respect of such action and pay
if any surplus amount of money left, by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha on application, to the person, who has
brought such animal for slaughter to the slaughter house. If such person does not claim the amount before
expiry of one year, the sum shall be credited to the Council Fund.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
18A
19. It shall be lawful for the slaughter house keeper or the Divisional Medical Officer of Health ). to prohibit the
slaughter of any animal affected by disease or on any other reason or such animal found to be not suitable to
slaughter for human food, whether a permit to slaughter has been already issued or not and no person shall
slaughter any such animal.
20. Whenever any person who has brought to the slaughter house any animal for slaughter and for which the issue of
a permit has been refused or the slaughter of which has been prohibited, fail to remove it from the slaughter
house premises within twelve hours, after such refusal or prohibition, further action shall be taken as provided
under by law No.18 herein.
21. No person shall remove any meat, skin, bowels and offal of any animal slaughtered in the public slaughter house
unless such person is in possession of a permit, prepared on the form approved by the Council, and signed by an
authorized officer appointed for the purpose of issuing such permit and any person removing such meat, skin,
bowels and offal shall produce the permit for inspection when demanded by an officer of the Udapalatha
Pradeshiya Sabha and if he fail to so produce the permit, such meant, skin, bowels and offal shall liable to be
seized and removed to the office of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha or to the Police Station to be disposed of
as may be directed by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him and no compensation shall be paid.
22. No dogs shall be admitted into the slaughter and as owner or person in charge of a dog shall not bring such dog
into it or allow it to enter any slaughter house. All dogs found inside a slaughter house shall be dealt with as
astray dogs.
23. No licensed butch or any of his registered servants or any other person admitted into inside of a slaughter shall
make any noise or flight or quarrel or use insulting and abusive language.
24. It shall not be lawful for any person who is not a licensed butcher, to slaughter any animal within the limits of the
Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha slaughter house, unless he shall have obtained a special license from the competent
authority and anyperson who obtains such a special license shall not slaughter except at the place named in such
license or under any condition set for the therein. The application for such special license shall contain information
in respect of the animal similar to the particulars contained in the Form “a” shown in the schedule to the Branding,
Sale and Transfer of Cattle Ordinance (Chapter 473) and shall be accompanied by a report from a Police Officer of
the area or an officer of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha or from the Grama Niladari in proof of the ownership of
such animal. For this special license a fee not exceeding Rupees two hundred and fifty (Rs.250.00) or an amount
prescribed by the Council shall be payable.
25. Every slaughter house shall be thoroughly washed and swept at least twice a day or such times as determined by
the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him.
26. Every slaughter house both inside and outside shall be lime washed at least once in three months.
27. Every slaughter house shall be paved with granite stones or with bricks or concrete and the joints shall be treated
with Cement mortar at least once a year.
28. Where an animal which has been approved for slaughter as aforesaid found to be affected by any disease when
slaughtered and the carcass appear to be unfit for human food, the Chairman or an officer authorized by him shall
cause such carcass to be disposed of preventing it being used for human food. In this connection the decision
taken by the veterinary surgeon or the Medical Officer of Health shall be final and has no rights to claim compensation
for doing so.
29. No person other than the butchers, their assistants and officers of the Council attach to the slaughter house or any
others authorized shall be admitted to the slaughter house premises during the process of slaughtering, skinning
or cutting up carcases.
30. All the offal or other refuse left at the slaughter house by the butchers or by their assistants shall be disposed of
as common offal.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
31. No person shall bring or allow to be brought meat of animal from the slaughter house of  Pradeshiya Sabha or from
any other place of slaughtering to the market or to any other place within the Council limits of the  Pradeshiya
Sabha unless such meat is transported in a protected motor van without exposing to sunlight, dust and rain and
public view.
32. Every person contravening or violating any of the provisions of these by laws shall be guilty of an offence and
when convicted in a court of law having jurisdiction, shall be liable for legal action under sub Section (2) of Section
122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act  No. 15 of 1987.
33. The fine imposed under By Law No. 32, shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
34. For the purpose of  these by Laws unless the context otherwise requires;
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha. “Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of
Udapalatha
“Authorized officer” means officer authorized by the Chairman
“Competent Authority” means the Chairman or an officer authorized by him.
“Slaughter Housekeeper” means person appointed to be in charge of a slaughter house.
“Animal” apply the relevant interpretation in the Butchers’ Ordinance.
35. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and the English texts of these by laws the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
07 - 1293/6
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha  Pradeshiya Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section ix(j) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
02nd of February 2015.
B
Y-LAW RELA TING TO MEAT STALLS
1. This by-law is cited as the by-law for sale of meat in the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha.
2. This by-law is enforced for the purpose of regulating, supervising and controlling sale of meat within the
Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
20A
3. No person shall display meat for sale and store meat for sale in any shop or place within the Udapalatha Pradeshiya
Sabha authority area except on a license issued by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
4. Every license issued under by-law No.03 shall be valid till the 31 st of December of the year on which it is
issued unless it is cancelled earlier, by the Chairman.
5. Licensee shall keep affixed at a clearly visible place in his premises, a name board with his name, address,
registered number and the words “Licensed Meat Stall” legibly painted thereon in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages.
6. Every licensee shall keep in the shop or in the premises a list of the names and addresses of all employees, so
as to be available at all times for inspection. Such persons in the list of names shall appear for a medical
examination annually before obtaining the licence and such medical report shall be forwarded to the Chairman.
7. Every licensee of a meat stall shall cause the floor, the tile or cemented portions of the walls, the top of the
tables used for chopping meat to be scribed and washed once on scraped every day at such time mentioned in the
license. He shall cause all hooks used for hanging meat and any other metal equipments to be kept free from
rust.
8. Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep every part of the meat stall, the surrounding drains, furniture, utensils
and equipment used in connection with the storing preparation or sale of meat in good repaired condition, clean
and free from effluvia arising from any drain, latrine, cesspit or other nuisance.
9. Every license of a meat stall shall dispose his business and house hold wastes and refuse in the manner to be
approved by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha and shall take precautionary measures not to cause any annoyance
to the people moving around the trade stall.
10. Every license of a meat stall shall keep his business place free from rats, astray dogs, cats, mosquitoes and
insects.
11. Every licensee of a licensed meat stall shall not keep any animal or bird in the meat stall.
12. No person suffering from leprosy or infectious or contagious disease shall be employed as a salesman in the
trade stall.
13. No person shall keep in the licensed premises, furniture or any other articles except those used for purposes
of storing, preparation or sale of meat.
14. Every licensee of a meat stall shall keep in the licensed premises ample supply of drinking water.
15. No licensee of a meat stall shall sell or expose for sale in the licensed premises any meat other than the meat of
animals slaughtered in a public slaughter house which is within the area of authority of Udapalatha and which
has been duly declared and proclaimed under section 21 of the Buthers’ Ordinance (chapter 201) or in a place
determined for the purpose by the proper authority under section 11 of the said Ordinance or upon a license
issued under section 14 of the said Ordinance and for the purpose of identifying such meat the approved seal
shall be placed by the public health inspector or by an officer authorized by the medical officer of health.
16. Balance or used in the sale of meat shall be an electro digital balance and one side shall be visible to the
public.
17. Every meat stall shall be kept opened from 7.00 a.m. till 7.00 p.m by the licensee except on the days on
which the sale of meat is prohibited.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
18. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law having
jurisdiction the maximum fine and punishment imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously
and when convicted or in the case of continuous contravention after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall respectively be as defined under sub-Section 2
of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987.
19. The fine imposed under By Law No. 18, shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
20. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by laws
”Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha
“Officer” means the officer serving in the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha.
“Animal meat” means meat of cattle, goats, pigs, poultry and includes meat described in the cattle Slaughter
Ordinance.
21. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
07 - 1293/7
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha  Pradeshiya Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section ix(j) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha
from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
02nd February 2015.
B
Y LAWS RELATING TO SALE OF FISH
1. This by law is cited as the by law relating to sale of edible fish within the Pradeshiya Sabha Authority area of
Udapalatha.
2. This by law is enforced for the purpose regulating, controlling the sale of edible fish for the residents of the
Council authority area under sanitary conditions and according specified standards.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
22A
3. No person shall be entitled to obtain a license under these by-laws unless the place and equipment used at
such place conform to following conditions.
a) The area set apart for sale of fish be paved with cement and ceramic tiles or be covered with anti corrosive
metallic sheets or using such material approved by the Council and have the place built according to its
instructions.
b) Floor used for exhibiting fish kept for sale and the floor used for storing fish shall be paved with cement
or be finished with ceramic tiles.
e) Drains meant for flowing waste water shall be built systematically according to the instructions of the
Council and health officers.
4. The license holder of the fish stall shall keep affixed in a conspicuous place of such premises a name board with
his name, address and registration number and the words “Licensed Fish Stall” ligebly painted in Sinhala and
Tamil languages.
5. Every license holder of a stall shall forward to the Chairman, without any delay, a list of names and addresses of
employees serving at such place. All such employees shall be subject to an acceptable medical examination
annually and such medical reports shall be forwarded to the Council Officer.
6. Two copies of coloured photographs showing only the bust of employees mentioned under by law No.05
shall be forwarded.
7. Every license holder of a fish stall keep, every part, of the stall, its surrounding and drains around it, and all
utensils and equipment used for storing and sale of fish, well repaired and in good condition and have the place
free of unwholesome smell and effluvia.
8. Every license holder shall keep a covered refuse bin to put waste matter when making sales and shall dispose
such refuse daily observing sanitary methods and according to instructions of the Council.
9. Every license holder shall keep his fish stall free from rats, dogs, birds, cattle, flies, mosquitoes and any other
disease carrying insects.
10. No person suffering from contagious diseases or skin diseases or had contacted such a disease in the recent
past or had been recently nursing anybody who is suffering from such a disease shall enter, engage himself or
employ in any form of sale or transporting fish or an assistant of any person engage in sale in a fish stall.
11. No furniture or any articles shall be kept in the fish stall except the equipments and articles used for sale
offish.
12. Every license holder shall be responsible for ensuring an adequate supply of pure, sanitary water.
13. The fish stall shall be kept closed on the days ordered by the Chairman and on other days the stall shall be
kept opened from 7.00 a.m. to 7.00 p.m.
14. No license holder of a fish stall shall allow any person to transport fish for sale from the stall except on a
permit signed and issued by the Chairman.
15. It is lawful for the Chairman or an officer authorized by him for the purpose, to enter into a fish stall and carry
out an inspection at any reasonable time and the license holder shall give his assistance.
16. The remaining unsold fish at the end of daily sales shall be stored in a deep freezer and the licensee shall see
that the freezer containing such fish is in continuous good working condition until the stall opening time of
next day.
17. Hand gloves, mouth and head gears shall be worn as directed by the Chairman and health authorities and all
such items shall be kept clean and tidy.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
18. Every license issued under by law No.03 shall be valid till the 31 sl December of the year for which it is issued
unless it is cancelled earlier by the Chairman.
19. Contravening of anyone or several or all aforesaid by laws shall be an offence and when convicted in a court of
law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable and when such contravention is committed continuously,
and when convicted, or in the case of continuous contravention, after delivering a written notice by the Chairman
or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contravention, the maximum additional fine
imposable for each day of continuing such contravention shall be as defined in sub Section (2) of Section 122
of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No.15 of 1987.
20. The fine imposed under By Law No. 19, shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
21. For the purpose of these bylaws unless the context otherwise require-
”Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha.
“Health Officer” means the Director of Health or his representative functioning within such authority area.
“Fish Stall” means the place set apart by the Council for sale of fish.
“License holder’ means the person who has obtained a license for sale of fish.
22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and the English texts of these by laws the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
07 - 1293/8
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha  Pradeshiya Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section (XIV) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha
Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha from the date
of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
20nd February 2015.
B
Y LAW RELA TING TO SUPPLYING,  HIRING AND SERVICE OF FESTIV AL EQUIPMENTS AND  OTHER ARTICLES
1. This by law is cited as the by law for the purpose of regulating controlling and levying fees from business places
supplying and hiring of festival equipments, and articles and for services rendered from such places within the
authority areas of Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. No person shall maintain a festival equipment and such articles supplying and hiring service within the Udapalatha
Pradeshiya Sabha authority areas unless he is in possessions of a license issued by the Chairman of the Pradeshiya
Sabha.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
24A
3. Every license issued under by law No.02 shall be valid until the 31st of December of the year for which it is issued,
unless such license is cancelled earlier.
4. Every license shall be subject to levy of a fee as determined by the Council from time to time.
5. A person to whom a license is issued under by lay No.02 shall not transfer the same to any other person.
6. No person shall be entitle to receive a license under by law No.02 unless the Chairman is satisfied that such
person has complied with the conditions stipulated below,
i. The place of used for storing festival equipments and such articles shall be a permanent building and the
floor of such building shall be a permanent building and the floor of such building shall be paved with
cement or some other permanent material.
ii. The roof shall be covered with a generally used material.
iii. W alls shall be painted and shall be in clean and tidy condition.
iv. All kinds of equipment used for preparing food and beverages to be used in festivals shall not be kept on
the floor or ground and there shall be racks supplied to store such items.
v . Such place shall be free of insects and pet animals.
vi. All utensils, containers and equipment used for taking foods and beverages shall be once washed before
using and also after using with soap or with some other cleaning substance.
vii. All other equipments or utensils not used for food or beverages shall be kept in good serviceable condition.
viii. All table clothes, curtains and napkins etc to be supplied for festivals shall be washed and cleaned when
once used.
7. Every person who maintains a business of hiring and supplying festival equipment and articles etc. shall mention
the number of the license issued under by law No.02, on the  business name board to be exhibited at such
business place.
8. The hiring charges shall be exhibited clearly in such business place.
9. A fee shall be charged along with the licence and it shall be amended by resolutions time to time.
10. It is lawful for the Chairman or for an officer of the Council generally or especially authorized by him in
writing to enter into any licensed place at any reasonable time and inspect the equipment and materials etc.,
being used or appear to be using in such business.
11. Contravention of any of the provisions of any by law or several by laws or all by laws shall be an offence, and
when convicted in a court of law having jurisdiction, the maximum fine imposable, and when such contravention
is committed continuously and when convicted and in the case of a continuous contravention, after delivering
or written notice by the Chairman or by an officer authorized by him, drawing attention for such contraventions,
the maximum additional fine imposable for each day of committing such contravention shall respectively be as
defined under sub Section (2) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No.15 of 1987.
12. The charges and fine imposed under by law number II shall be deposited to the Pradeshiya Sabha common
fund.
13. Unless the context otherwise require in these by laws-
”Council” means the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Authorized Officer” means the officer authorized by the Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English context of these by laws the Sinhala
context shall prevail.
07 - 1293/9
CENTRAL    PROVINCE    PROVINCIAL    COUNCIL
Udapalatha  Pradeshiya Sabha
BY  LAWS
I, Sarath Ekanayake, as the Minister in Charge of the subject of Local Government of the Central Provincial Council, do
hereby notify according to the powers vested in me under Sub-section (1) of Section 123 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act,
No. 156  1987, to be read with Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 2 of the Provincial Council Act, No. 12 of 1989 (Consequential
Provisions), has approved the following by-laws framed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha, according to powers vested
under Sub-section (XIV) of Section (126) of the said Act, to be read with Sub-section (1) of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya
Sabha Act, No. 15  1987 and the said by laws shall be effective within the Pradeshiya Sabha authority area of Udapalatha
from the date of publication of this notification in the Government Gazette.
S
ARATH E KANAYAKE,
The Chief Minister of the Central Province
and the Minister in charge of the subject of
Local Government.
Office of  the Chief Minister of Central Province,
Kandy.
02nd February 2015.
B
Y-LAW RELA TING TO PUBLIC LIBRARIES OF THE UDAPALATHA PRADESHIYA SABHA
1. This by-law is called and known as By-Law relating to public libraries of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha.
2. Pradeshiya Sabha has commenced a public library service for providing resources and also services in various
media to fullfil the pleasurable and leisureful needs and furnish educational information enabling the personal
development and improvement of reading habits of persons and social groups living in the Pradeshiya Sabha
authority area and this by-law is enforced in respect of making such provisions.
3. According to requirements of the public the public libraries may include several sections  services or all of
them.
a) Lending Section
b) Reference Section
c) Childrens’ Section
d) Periodicals and Magazine Section
e) Audio, Visual and Information Communication Technology Section
f) Educational Section
g) Book Preservation Section; Rare Book Section
h) Special Collections, Regional Collections Section
i) Library Service Section for Disabled Community
j) Community Information Section
k) Photocopy and any other Information Section

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
26A
4. There shall be a librarian for every library of the Pradeshiya Sabha and person so appointed shall be responsible
for the Pradeshiya Sabha for the proper organization and management of the public library.
5. (a) A  library advisory committee hereinafter reffered to as committee may be appointed for advising for and
guidance to the public library service and such committee shall consist of following persons.
i. Chairman of the Council at the time referred to as Chairman hereinafter.
ii. A number of members not less than three including one member from each group representing all
groups of the Pradeshiya Sabha.
iii. Maximam of three members representing each from each religion of the people residing in the
authority area.
iv. Five distinguished persons living in the area of authority selected by the Council.
v . Secretary of the committee shall be the librarian at the time being.
(b) Number of the committee shall not exceed fifteen.
(c) Chairman of the committee shall be the Chairman and he shall preside at all meetings. In his absence of
the Chairman a member present shall be elected to preside at the meeting.
6. Quorum and Abolition of membership.
a) Quorum shall be 1/3 of the number of members appointed by the Council.
b) Member who holds the Chairmanship at any meeting has one vote and at any meeting when the number of
votes cost for and against be equal on any proposal, there is a casting vote too.
c) Membership of the committee shall be abolished when a member fail to attend three consecutive committee
meetings. New member shall appointed by the decision of the Council in place of members whose
membership is so abolished.
7. (i) Membership
a) Following qualification shall be required for membership in the lending section.
b) For ordinary membership age shall be over 14 years and for children’s membership age shall be
less than 14 years and more than 03 years.
c) Permanent resident of the authority area of the Council or a student or a proprietor, or an
employee in such area.
d) Application for membership may be forwarded with Grama Niladari certificate in proof of residence,
Principals certificate for a student, certificate of the head of the institution for an employee.
(ii) Sureties
Member of Parliament, Provincial Council member, Member of the Pradeshiya Sabha, Member of Advisory
Committee, Clergy
Doctor or Lawyer, Justice of Peace
Principal of a school in the authority area, Staff Officer serving in the Council, Grama Niladari of the
authority area.
iii) obtaining membership
For obtaining the membership of the library a fee Rs.50/- shall be paid at the commencement and
membership shall be renewed annually on payment of Rs.15/- and on behalf of children a half of the fee is
payable. Membership fee shall be determined by the Council from time to time on a resolution passed by
the Council.

<!-- page 27 -->

27AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
8. General Conditions
(i) Lending section
i. Librarian shall issue 02 tickets for every person who obtain membership under by-law No.07 (iii)
herein and such person has the right to obtain one book for each ticket.
ii. Transfer of membership card is totally prohibited.
iii. Member is responsible for every book he borrows.
iv. Where a lending card of a member is lost, he shall immediately inform in writing to the librarian. If
the librarian is satisfied that no book has been issued from lending library on such card, he may
issue a temporary card. No duplicate card shall be issued.
v . When obtaining card for the one lost, a fee determined by the Council from time to time shall be
paid for re-issuing such card.
vi. A book borrowed on each membership card shall be allowed to take away for 14 days. Member may
be allowed a further period of 14 days if such book is not required by any other member.
vii. A book borrowed from the library shall be returned on the due date noted in the book or on a date
before such date. When delayed to return a borrowed book member is liable to pay a fine determined
by the Council.
viii. When a member fails to return a borrowed book within 30 days action shall be taken presuming that
such book is lost.
ix. Where it is reported that a borrowed book is lost, member shall supply a copy of the book to the
library and if he fails to do so pay the value of the book, and additional fee of 25% shall be charged
from him. In default of payment action shall be taken to charge the amount from the surety.
x. Member shall not damage, deface, remove pages, draw lines, write notes, or shall not cause any
harm in any manner to a borrowed book. When such a book is returned the librarian shall charge
from the member the value of estimated damage caused to such a book.
xi. Member shall check whether a book is damaged or defaced before such a borrowed book is taken
away from the lending library and librarian shall be informed if there be such damages. Any borrowed
book taken without any report shall be presumed as a book released free of damage and defacing.
xii. Where a librarian is recommending that a book returned by a member is damaged to render it unfit
for further circulation, a member who pays the cost of such book shall be given to him with the
words “removed due to damage” stamped therein.
xiii. A book borrowed by a member may be returned to the library by a non-  member; but he cannot
borrow any book and when such an instance is reported, the membership and the deposit of the
member may be cancelled. When a member suffering from an infectious or contagious disease
returns a book to the library such book shall be destroyed and action shall be taken by the librarian
to charge additional fee of 25%.
xiv. When there is a difference of opinion to whom a borrowed book to be  issued, the librarian shall
solve such issue.
xv. Any member who desires to borrow any book which has already been borrowed by another member,
he shall enter his name and details in the register kept for the purpose and when such book is
returned the librarian shall reserve it for such member. Where two or members apply for the book,
the librarian shall follow the order of the register and issue the book.
xvi. Library may be kept opened till 8.00 p.m on the decision of the Council.
(b ) Reference library
a) Any person over 14 years, who can read and write is qualified to use the reference library.
b) Any person who require the use of reference library shall take the permission of the librarian by
proving his identity and writing the name and address and placing the signature in the readers’ register.
c) Readers are not allowed to take any stationary except some blank papers in to the lending library
and a reader shall take any documents necessary to the lending library allowed by the librarian.
d) No person shall take out of the library any book obtained for reference.

<!-- page 28 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
28A
e) Any reader coming to the reference library when require to refer any book, report and periodical of any
other section of the library, such requirement may be allowed with the permission of the librarian.
f) Reference library shall be kept opened during the hours when the public library is kept opened.
g) Copies of documents allowed to be issued, may obtained with the permission of the librarian on
payment or fees prescribed by the Council.
(iii) Children’s Library
A. Membership of the childrens’ library may be obtained subject to provisions in the by-law No.05 of
these by-laws.
B. The hours of keeping the childrens’ library opened shall be determined by the Chairman on the
advice of the advisory committee of the library.
C. No adult person except officers and servants attach to the staff of the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha
(except persons authorized to inspect) shall be allowed to enter inside the childrens’ library.
(iv) Periodicals and Magazine Section
a) Any persons over 14 years of age who can read and write shall make use of the magazine section.
b) The librarian shall grant permission to use the section after proving the identity and writing name
and address in the register provided.
c) It is prohibited to remove any periodicals, books, magazines, maps and equipment from this
section.
d) Section shall be kept opened during the hours when the public library is kept opened.
(v) Newspaper Section
a. Any person who place the signature in the attendance register writing his name and address and
who prove his identity shall be permitted to enter this section.
b. There shall be daily newspapers and week end news papers in this section. Only the newspapers
published in the previous month shall be preserved.
c. Newspapers exceeding a period of one month shall be removed from the section and such newspapers
shall be sent to the Council office for disposal.
d. Newspaper section shall be kept opened every day in the month from 8.30 a.m to 4.45 p.m.
(vi) Audio V isual and Information Communication Technological Section
a) Any person who has obtained in the membership of the library according to provisions under by-law
No. 06 shall make use of this section.
b) Any member signing the attendance register writing his name and address, and who is paying the
fees decided by the Council from time to time shall be permitted to enter this section by the librarian.
c) It is not allowed to take out of the premises audio visual tapes and audio and equipments.
d) Any reader who pays the deposits and fees determined by the Council shall be allowed to take away
two tapes at a time for a period of 14 days.
e) When issuing and returning audio tapes the reader and the librarian shall be satisfied on the audio
condition.
f) For damaged audio tapes reader shall pay a compensation of double the value of such audio tapes.
g) Fees to be paid by a person who make use of the information communication and technological
section shall determined by the Council from time to time.
h) It is prohibited to use compact discs and computer software brought from outside in the computer
of this section.
i) Any person shall obtain electronic mail and internet facilities on payment of prescribed fees.
j) It is not permitted to copy or take away in manner compact discs and computer parts used in this
section.
k) When readers require copies through compact discs permission of librarian shall be obtained.

<!-- page 29 -->

29AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
(vii) Auditorium
1. The auditorium of Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha shall be reserved for education and cultural displays,
theatres, film shows, sermons, seminars, work shops shows, public meetings (not political) trade
union meetings and religious sermons.
2. Auditorium shall be reserved for the applicant who comes first on payment of fees and deposits
specified by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
3. Where an applicant require to reserve the auditorium for any other date other than the reserved date,
reservation may be made on the fees and deposit paid on earlier time. When such other date is
reserved for another applicant fees for non-use of the auditorium shall not be refunded only the
deposit shall be refunded.
4. The Chairman of the Pradeshiya Sabha and the authorized officer has the power to reserve the
auditorium and reservation may be suspended on reasonable grounds.
5. Every applicant who reserve the auditorium shall-
a) Prevent any damage to equipment, electrical fittings and other fixings in the auditorium and
around the premises.
b) Prevent persons who are untidy, unpleasant and unsuitable entering the auditorium.
c) Prevent use of liquor and smoking inside the auditorium and drunkards entering therein.
d) Preventing any person affected with an infectious or contaguous disease or a person recently
been attending such patient entering the auditorium.
e) Preventing display of scenes, posters and images unsuitable for peoples conduct.
f) Protecting the belongings etc. of the viewers and people coming there.
g) Preventing people remaining in the auditorium without the written permission
of the Chairman.
If the Chairman or the officer authorized by the Chairman report that these responsibilities are
defaulted, the show or any such purpose to be carried out in the auditorium shall be cancelled
without giving reasons and the deposit shall not be refunded and legal action shall be taken to recover
the cost of damages.
(viii) Branch Libraries
1. By-law relating to main library shall be applicable to branch libraries.
2. Membership of the branch library shall be limited to residents within the limits of Udapalatha
Pradeshiya Sabha.
(ix) Reading rooms
1. Reading rooms shall be built outside the main library at divisional level of the Council.
2. In these reading rooms only newspapers and periodicals shall be available for readers.
3. Permission may be granted to make use of the reading room by proving the identity and placing the
signature and writing the address in the attendance register by residents of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya
Sabha.
(x) Mobile Libraries
1. Mobile library service shall be maintained for members who are unable to come for the main library
or for the branch libraries.
2. Mobile library service shall be held once in 14 days at a place maintained by the Udapalata Pradeshiya
Sabha.

<!-- page 30 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
30A
3. In the places where the mobile library service is held, the date and time of holding such mobile service
shall be displayed prominently to be seen by members.
4. Separate card shall be issued to members who make use of the mobile library and such card shall
not be valid for the main library or branch library.
(xi) Studying Section
1. A studying section may be established attach to main library and branch library of the Council.
2. Permanent residents of the city shall be given permission to admit in to this studying section after
signing the attendance register giving the name and address.
3. Books and periodicals and magazines of the library shall not be allowed to take in to the newspaper
section or shall not be allowed to use them therein. Only private letters and documents, books,
periodicals magazines and reading materials of readers shall be made use of.
4. Studying section too shall be kept opened during opening times of the library.
5. The librarian shall be satisfied that the readers who came there do not engage in any other business
other than their studying. Persons idling or engage in other business shall be sent out.
(xii) Rare Books and Book Preservation Section.
1. This section shall be established to preserve books of historical importance, books in out of
print, books on out of sale and other such books relating to any subject.
2. Books over 50 years old legally bound to be given to the custody of archaeological Department or
to the museum, books on out of print or out of sale and books periodicals, newspapers recommended
by the library service and documentation Board shall be pre served in this section.
3. This section shall be used by researchers with the written permission of the librarian.
(xiii) Library Service Section for Disabled People.
1. This section shall be opened for the disable persons who are blind and action shall be taken to get
the books periodical magazines prepared according “Braily” system.
2. All by-laws relating to use of main library shall be applied to this section.
(xiv) Community Information Section.
1. Providing historical, social, economic, trade, educational or any other information required by the
readers living within the authority areas of Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
2. This section shall be established to provide information required by readers about by-laws of the
Council reports of the Council, progress reports, budget report and final statement of accounts or
information required in respect of the Council.
3. Any person who obtain the permission of the Chairman or librarian shall be provided these
information.
(xv) Photocopy Section
1. This section may be opened for readers who make use of the library to obtain a copy of a page or
part of a book, magazine, newspapers etc.
2. Readers who pay the fees prescribed by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha shall be issued copies
under the supervision of the librarian
3. Only photocopies of a part of a book, news papers, periodicals ,magazines shall be issued at any
occasion and copying a full book, news paper and a periodical magazine is entirely prohibited.
9. (i) Readers and officers and servants who come to all sections of the library shall observe strict
silence during the period when the library is kept opened.
(ii) No person shall come in to any section of the library after taking liquor,and shall not use liquor in
the premises when the library is kept opened and shall not smoke, chew beatle, play dice, engage in
conservation, idle, and behave obstructing the officers and members of the library and sleeping,
taking foods, begging, collecting assistance holding sermons and bringing any animal shall not be
allowed.

<!-- page 31 -->

31AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'13
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 13.07.2015
(iii) Reader coming to the library shall hand over all articles to the reception counter and obtain a token
card. Such articles shall be removed on the same day and after this date no body shall be responsible
for such articles. Where token is misplaced such articles may be returned after proving the identity.
Readers shall pay the amount expended on the card by the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha. Officers
have the power to check the articles before handing over as a security step and nobody shall be
liable for any loss after they are issued. Articles of readers who resist such checking shall not be
accepted. All readers shall avoid handing over highly valuable articles and cash to the counter.
(iv) Nobody shall remain in the premises of the library during the time when it is closed. Officers and
employees who have obtained permission of the Chairman or the librarian shall remain therein. No
person shall be permitted to remain there in the night.
(v) Any person afflicted with an infectious or contagious disease or persons treating such patients
shall not enter library premises.
10. Contravening any of the provisions of these By -Laws is an offence and when convicted in a court of law
having jurisdiction as defined under sub-Section 2 of Section 122 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act No. 15 of
1987.
11. Unless the context otherwise requires in these by-law
“Council” means the Pradeshiya Sabha of Udapalatha.
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of the Udapalatha Pradeshiya Sabha.
“Librarian” mean s a person appointed for the administration libraries of Udapalatha
“Main library” means the Public Library established in the premises of Udapalatha.
“Committee” means the library advisory committee.
12. In this by-law the word male includes females too.
13. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of these by-laws, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
07-1293/10
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.