

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2292$29 - 2022 wf.daia;= ui 09 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2022'08'09
No. 2292/29 -  tuesday,  august  09 ,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 5924 - 481 (08/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
SPECIAL   COmmODITY   LEvY  ACT,  No.  48  Of  2007
Order under Section 5
1.  By virtue of the powers vested in me by section 5 of the special Commodity Levy act, No. 48 of 2007, I, Ranil 
Wickremesinghe, Minister of Finance, economic stabilization and National Policies of the democratic socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka, do hereby make an order to waive-off the applicable Special Commodity Levy on importation of 
essential goods liable to pay any rate of special Commodity Levy, to be received from any foreign states (governments), 
organizations including business entities, volunteer associations and well wishers by any government entities, government 
approved entities and entities working on relief activities in direct collaboration with any government entities as aid/
donations to provide relief measures or facilitate continuation of essential public services subject to ;
 
(a)  Recommendation of the Secretary (Chief Accounting Officer), Ministry in Charge of donation recipient 
government entity or government approved entity or the directly collaborating government entity with 
the donation and relief measures, where ; (i) the secretary shall provide recommendation for exemption 
of Special Commodity Levy only after his satisfaction on the purpose and target beneficiaries of the         
donation ; and (ii) Such donated goods shall be consigned to the Secretary (Chief Accounting Officer), 
who issued the letter of Recommendation referred above ; case by case basis ;
(b) all donations shall be approved by the director general, sri Lanka Customs upon receipt of the 
recommendation referred in (a) above;

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'08'09
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 09.08.2022
2a
(c) The Secretary (Chief Accounting Officer), referred in (a) above is responsible and accountable for goods, 
received as aid/ donation under this procedure until such goods are delivered or distributed for intended 
purpose(s) and beneficiaries free of charge; and,
(d) any goods, received as aid/ donation under this procedure shall not be sold, transferred or disposed or 
utilized for purposes other than the purpose stated above without prior approval of the secretary to the 
treasury. In the case of any violation on this procedure, action shall be taken by the director general, sri 
Lanka Customs under the provisions of the Customs Ordinance to recover the applicable taxes.
2.  this Order shall be valid for a period of one year commencing from august 10, 2022 subjcet to provisions of sub 
section (3) of section 2 of the special Commodity Levy act, No. 48 of 2007.
    
 Ranil Wickremesinghe,
 Minister of  Finance, Economic Stabilization  
 and National Policies.
Ministry of Finance, economic stabilization
 and National Policies,
Colombo 01.
09th august, 2022.
eOg 08 - 0111
PRINted at tHe dePaRtMeNt OF gOVeRNMeNt PRINtINg,  sRI LaNKa.