

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 14.02.2020
1A
wxl 2162$64 - 2020 fmnrjdß ui 14 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'02'14
No. 2162/64 - FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY  14,  2020
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Proclamations & C., by the President
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1A-  G  32042— 392  (02/2020)
BY  HIS  EXCELLENCY  GOTABAYA  RAJAPAKSA
 PRESIDENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
Presidential  Directive
ESTABLISHMENT of a Special Agency by His Excellency the President in the exercise of  powers vested in  His Excellency
in terms of  Article 33 of the Constitution of the  Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, to advise and assist the
Government in the formulation and implementation of a national wage policy by  revisiting all remuneration structures
including salaries and wages in the Public Sector as well as   the  Private Sector  to facilitate due  fulfillment  of the manpower
requirements in order to maintain  continued sustainability  of the salaries and  wages  in the said  sectors.
To:
1. Upali Wijeweera Esquire
2. Madam Chandrani Senaratne
3. Gotabhaya Jayaratne Esquire
4. Madam Sujatha Cooray
 Seal GOTABAYA  R AJAPAKSA

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 14.02.2020
2A
5.  Madam Madura Wehalle
6. M.S.D. Ranasiri Esquire
7. Dr. Ananda Hapugoda Esquire
8. Sanjeewa Somaratne Esquire, Judge of High Court
9. Ajith Nayanakantha Esquire
10. Ravi Liyanage Esquire
11. Sanath Ediriweera Esquire
12. Prof. Ranjith Senarathna Esquire
13. Eng. R.M. Amarasekara Esquire
14. Major Gen.(Rtd.) Siri Ranaweera Esquire
15. W.H. Piyadasa Esquire
GREETINGS !
WHEREAS, it is the expectation of the Government  to formulate a long term  human resources mobilization
plan  adopted  to meet the service requirements aimed at raising  the efficiency and  productivity of the public service for
creating a people -  friendly  Public service  in terms of the Policy Statement: “Vistas of prosperity and splendour”  for a
re-constructed country and whereas the Government proposes  introducing a package incorporating salaries, wages  and
various  incentives  so as to recruit to  the public service competent personnel capable of effectively handling the task of
efficient delivery of services facilitating and regulating  the development process where necessary,
AND  WHEREAS  it is found necessary that attention is focussed on the structural changes underway in the
economy in diverting human resources to different sectors and that the cost of labour is maintained  at a competitive level
which is favourable to Sri Lanka by raising the productivity of the labour force to internationally competitive level;
AND  WHEREAS    it is expected that an unhealthy competition between the public sector and private sector  as
a whole as well as amongst various institutions  within the public sector  and the  private sector would be avoided in the
fulfillment of manpower requirements and that  their role would be complementary  to each other;
AND  WHEREAS  the Government has identified the need for an appropriate  special methodology  to be introduced
in order to  attract exceptionally  competent professionals to efficiently accomplish the task  assigned  to the public
sector in the economic development process as it has been found difficult to do so in the context of the methodologies
currently adopted;
AND  WHEREAS   there is the need for the  role of  the  Department of Management Services  to be  reviewed
and  the cadre  required for various  services  to be revisited  and  advice and  guidance  provided  where necessary in the
creation of new posts and productive  deployment of  employees within the approved cadre to meet exigencies  of service;
AND  WHEREAS   the Government is   prioritizing  the development of  public service cadre in such a way  as to
enhance quality of the task they are engaged in and provision  of  continued training  and skills development;
AND  WHEREAS   the Government is  committed to  giving  effect to policies  for the betterment of the
employees in the public sector as well as  private sector as spelt  out in the  Policy  Statement :  “ Vistas of prosperity and
splendour ”.
AND WHEREAS the Government is desirous of establishing a National Pay Commission (hereinafter referred
to as the Commission) to advise and assist the Government  with regard to the below-mentioned matters with a view to
achieving the   said objectives:
a. To advise the Government on National Salaries and Wages Policy paving the way for the accomplishment  of the
aforesaid objectives based on a continuous review of Salaries and Wages including monetary remuneration and
various other non-monetary  facilities of the Public Services including Provincial Public Service and Armed
Services,  Special Institutions the salaries of whose staff are met by the Consolidated Fund, State Corporations
and  Statutory Boards, Government-owned Companies, State Enterprises, State Banks  including Central Bank of
Sri Lanka and other Financial  Institutions and all spheres of the Public Service as a whole including all Regulatory
Institutions taking into consideration the following matters:

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 14.02.2020
3A
(i) Changes to be made in the terms of employment so as to attract competent individuals specialized in the
fields of Management, Science and Technology who are needed presently and in the future to implement
more meaningfully the socio-economic policies of the Government.
(ii) Need to rectify the existing salary anomalies occasioned by salary increases granted in terms of the
recommendations of the Salaries Commissions previously appointed or on an ad hoc basis;
(iii) Need to make the employees of the Public Sector as well as the Private Sector a contented and motivated
lot endowed with requisite skills;
(iv) Need to make the Public Service higher productivity and efficiency-driven as well as the need to eliminate
drawbacks in the fulfillment of manpower requirements of the Private Sector;
(v) Feasibility of the package being implemented within the limits of Government funds taking into account the
fact that the recurrent expenditure of the Government is at a very high level;
b. To make proposals to the Government aimed at minimizing the issues in relation to salaries and wages and terms  and
conditions of service, schemes of recruitment, schemes of promotion and service minutes as well as the anomalies
that are said to have arisen following the ad hoc salary increases granted;
c. To make proposals to the Government on a salary and wage structure that would guide in minimizing anomalies, if
any, that exist between the Salaries and Wages drawn by professionals having comparable responsibilities or
qualifications in the Public Sector and the Semi-Government Sector;
d. To review the systems of payment of various incentives and grants  including gratuities currently operated by
certain state institutions and recommend  more  appropriate methodologies to be adopted  in determining  the grant
of gratuities, various incentives and non-monetary incentives;
e. To make recommendations  to the relevant authorities on amendments to be made to or revision of Public Services’
Service Minutes, Schemes of Recruitment or Schemes of Promotion as required in collaboration with any government
institution or institutions in terms of the salary revisions or policy decisions announced by the Government in
relation to the remuneration in the Public Service;
f. To make a further study of the implementation of the proposal made by the Salaries Commission appointed on
Twentieth  July 2000  for the establishment of an institution with the authority (Arbitration Board ) to put forward
solutions for speedy settlement of  disputes  relating to salaries and conditions of service in the Public Sector and
to act as an arbiter  in settlement of  disputes  relating to schemes of  recruitment, schemes of promotion or service
minutes and make recommendation for an  institutional methodology for the settlement of such  disputes;
g. For the  Department of Management Services to recommend  measures to be adopted in the creation of posts and
systematic  distribution of such posts in the Public Services taking into account the fact that the Public Service
caters to the needs  of  more meaningful and people-centric economy;
h. To recommend to the  Government   the policies to be followed  in relation  to those talented and competent officers
with professional qualifications  holding  permanent posts in the public service seeking employment in semi-
government and  private sectors or abroad thus preventing  them from  leaving the public services ;
i. To make recommendations on the age limit  for mandatory  retirement in the decades  to come,  the state of  the
physical and mental health of the employees and their productive contribution  in view of the  increased life
expectancy  and the  state of health of current population and the international trends after a wide-ranging  survey
of the public and Private Sectors;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 14.02.2020
4A
j. To make recommendations to the Government on guaranteeing an appropriate minimum salary to those employed
in the Private Sector enhancing their skills  security of their employment and the availability of essential welfare
amenities they are entitled to, and implementation of the Government policy for their betterment as enshrined in the
Policy Statement: “ Vistas of prosperity and splendour ”
k. To make proposals to the Government for a National  Salary policy framework  in relation to the optimum utilization
of the country’s manpower resources by the Public Sector and the Private Sector in the country’s development.
AND WHEREAS, I am of the view that the accomplishment of the task and fulfillment of responsibilities entrusted
to the said Commission as identified above should commence immediately in the interest of the public.
Now, therefore, I Gotabaya Rajapaksa  in pursuance of the provisions of   Article 33 of the Constitution of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka   do hereby establish the National Pay Commission to undertake and execute the
said tasks and responsibilities.
AND reposing great trust and confidence in your prudence, ability and fidelity, do by these presents, appoint you
the said:
1.      Upali Wijeweera Esquire
2.      Madam Chandrani Senaratne
3.      Gotabhaya Jayaratne Esquire
4.      Madam Sujatha Cooray
5.      Madam Madura Wehalle
6.      M.S.D. Ranasiri Esquire
7.      Dr. Ananda Hapugoda Esquire
8.      Sanjeewa Somaratne Esquire, Judge of High Court
9.      Ajith Nayanakantha Esquire
10.    Ravi Liyanage Esquire
11.    Sanath Ediriweera Esquire
12.    Prof. Ranjith Senarathna Esquire
13.    Eng. R.M. Amarasekara Esquire
14.    Major Gen.(Rtd.) Siri Ranaweera Esquire
15.    W.H. Piyadasa Esquire
as members of the National Pay Commission and direct you to  take all such steps as may be required to proceed with the
implementation of the tasks set out at (a) to (k) above.
AND I, further appoint Upali Wijeweera Esquire as the Chairman of the Commission and Madam Chandrani Senaratne
as the Secretary to the Commission.
AND I, do hereby authorize the Commission to issue instructions, make inquiries and investigate such matters as
may be necessary in relation to the accomplishment  of the tasks  the Commission  is hereby entrusted with;
And I, do hereby authorize the Commission to appoint sub-committees each  comprising three officers  with
specialized knowledge and experience in respective fields specifically meant for the relevant task in order to assist the
Chairman and Members of the Commission where necessary in relation to particular fields in the Public Sector and the Private
Sector.
AND I, do hereby require and direct all public officers and such other persons to whom the Commission may
issue instructions or apply for assistance for information, to comply with such instructions, render all such assistance and
furnish all such  information  as may properly be compiled with, rendered and furnished,  in that behalf.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'02'14
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 14.02.2020
5A
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
I do hereby abolish the National Salaries and Cadre Commission established by the Presidential Directive made,
dated 18th March 2019 and by amendments made from time to time in terms of Article 33 of the Constitution of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Given at Colombo, under the seal of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka on this 14
th day of February
Two thousand and Twenty.
By Order of His Excellency,
P. B. JAYASUNDERA,
Secretary to the President.
02 - 671