

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    P AGE
Post - Vacant … … … 1027
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"067 – 2018 wfm%a,a ui 12 jeks n%yiam;skaod – 2018'04'12
No. 2,067  –  THURSDAY ,  APRIL 12, 2018
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 04th May, 2018 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th April, 2018.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 GANGANI  LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting).
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2018.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
1025-B 81271- 5,403 (04/2018)
N. B.–   Part III of the Gazette No. 2,066 of 06.04.2018 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2018
1026
1. General Qualiﬁ cations required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as deﬁ ned in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualiﬁ cation prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certi ﬁ cate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Of ﬁ cers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed of ﬁ cial language 
proﬁ ciency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualiﬁ cations which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proﬁ ciency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All of ﬁ cers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public ofﬁ cer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Ofﬁ cers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Of ﬁ cer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Of ﬁ cers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Ofﬁ cer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public ofﬁ cers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public ofﬁ cers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the ofﬁ cial languages.
3:1:4  Conﬁ rmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an ofﬁ cer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proﬁ ciency Test in one 
of the Ofﬁ cial Languages within one year; Grade II Proﬁ ciency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proﬁ ciency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such ofﬁ cers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain pro
ﬁ ciency in one of the 
ofﬁ cial languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proﬁ ciency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Ofﬁ cer already conﬁ rmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Ofﬁ cers may in the  ﬁ rst instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
speciﬁ ed  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Ofﬁ cer to test their physical ﬁ tness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public ofﬁ cers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public of ﬁ cers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Ofﬁ cers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those of ﬁ cers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Ofﬁ cer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Ofﬁ cers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from of ﬁ cers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualiﬁ cations must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Of ﬁ cers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to in ﬂ uence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualiﬁ cation if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Deﬁ nition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2018
1027
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY OF HEALTH NUTRITION AND 
INDIGENOUS MEDICINE 
Open Recruitment to the Post of Ward Clerk 
(Female) belonging to Management Assistant Non-
Technical Seg. 02 (MN-1-2006) and to the Posts of 
Attendant (Male/Female), Telephone Operator, 
Cook belonging to Primary Semi Skilled 
(PL-02-2006) Category of Service of the Ministry 
of Health Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine - 2018 
APPLICATION are called from the eligible applicants to 
ﬁ ll the vacancies (on the open basis) in the post of Ward 
Clerk (female) belonging to management Assistant Non-
Technical Seg. 02 (MN-1-2006) and the vacancies in the 
posts of Attendant (Male/Female), Telephone Operator and 
Cook belonging to Primary Semi Skilled (PL-02-2006) 
Category of Service of the Ministry of Health Nutrition and 
Indigenous Medicine. 
02. Educational qualiﬁ cations required for the posts. 
 ( a) For the post of Ward Clerk (female) belonging 
to Management Assistant Non-Technical Seg. 
02 (MN-1-2006).
  Shall have passed 06 subjects with credit passes 
for Sinhala/Tamil/English Language and other 
two subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) examination 
at the ﬁ rst sitting ; 
and
  Shall have passed at least one subject (except 
the common general test) at G. C. E. (A/L) 
examination. 
 ( b) For the posts of Attendant (male/female) 
Telephone Operator and Cook belonging to the 
Primary Semi Skilled category of service. 
  Shall have passed six subjects at least with two 
(02) credit passes at G. C. E. (O/L) examination 
at not more than two sittings. 
03. Vocational Qualiﬁ cation : 
 ( a) V ocational quali ﬁ cations are not relevant for 
the post of ward clerk (female) belonging to 
Management Assistant Non-Technical Seg. 02 
(MN-1-2006).
 ( b) For the post of Attendant (make/female), 
Telephone Operator and Cook belonging to 
Primary Semi Skilled category of service. 
  Shall have obtained the National V ocational 
Qualiﬁ cation certiﬁ cate at a level not below the 
level 2 or level 03 (NVQ 2 NVQ3) relevant to 
the post issued by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission.
Note.– Where the number of applicants with National 
V ocational Qualiﬁ cations (NVQ level 2 or level 3) 
is not suf ﬁ cient applicants who possess only the 
educational qualiﬁ cations will be recruited to the 
posts on the order of merit. 
04. Experience.– Not relevant to the post of Ward Clerk 
(female) belonging to Management Assistant Non-Technical 
Seg. - 02 (MN-1-2006) and to the posts of Attendant (Male/
Female), Cook belonging to Primary Semi Skilled category 
of service. 
05. Other Quali ﬁ cations.– As at 14.05.2018 applicants 
shall be not below 18 years and not above 30 years for the 
post of Ward Clerk (female) belonging to Management 
Assistant Non-Technical Seg. - 02 and not below 18 years 
and not above 45 years for the posts of Attendant (male/
female) Telephone Operator and Cook belonging to Primary 
Semi Skilled category of service. 
 ( b) Only the female applicants shall apply for the 
post of Ward Clerk.
 ( c) Should be a Sri Lankan citizen.
 ( d) Should be excellent in character.
 ( e) Should have completed the quali ﬁ cations 
required to recruitment to the post in all respects 
as at the closing date of application. 
 ( f) Should be ﬁ t physically and mentally to serve 
in any part of Sri Lanka and to discharge the 
duties of the post. 
06. Method of Application :-
 ( a) Applications forms should be prepared 
in compliance with the specimen form of 
application attached to this notiﬁ cation using the 
both sides of A4 size papers in such a manner 
that paragraphs from No. 1.0 to No. 5.1 appear 
on the ﬁ rst page and paragraphs from No. 5.2 to 
No. 9.0 appears on the second page and should 
be ﬁ lled by the applicant's own handwriting. 
 ( b) The receipt obtained by paying an amount of Rs. 
200/- to the credit of the account of "Director 
General of Health Services - Collection of 

<!-- page 4 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2018
1028
Examination fees" of the No. 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon, Thaprobane Branch should be af ﬁ xed on the 
place for receipt in the application. If applying for several posts application should be paid separately. (Keep a 
copy of the receipt before afﬁ xing the receipt). 
 ( c) Signature of the applicant placed on the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School or 
a Justice of the Peace or a Commissioner for Oaths or a Notary Publc or an Attorney-at-Law, or a Commissioned 
Ofﬁ cer in the Armed Forces or an of ﬁ cer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or an of ﬁ cer holding a 
permanent staff grade post in the public or Provincial Public who receives an annual combined salary above  
(Rs. 3,34,452.
 ( d) Application duly perfected should be enclosed in an envelope in the size of 9x4 and "Recruitment to the Post 
of ....................... -  2018" should be written on the top left hand corner and sent under registered post to reach 
Director (Administration) 03, Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine, "Suwasiripaya", No. 385, 
Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha, Colombo 10, on or before 14.05.2018.
07. Employees who are already in Government or Semi Government Services should apply through the respective 
Head of Department. 
08. Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged and applications received after the closing date will be 
rejected. The applications not compliance with the conditions above and the specimen from of application given at the end 
of this notiﬁ cation will be rejected without any notice. 
09. Method of Recruitment.– A written examination will be held by the Secretary on the Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and Indigenous Medicine for the applicants who have satisﬁ ed the qualiﬁ cations for the post of Ward Clerk (female) given 
in this notiﬁ cation and on the results of this examination applicants those who secure the highest marks will be called for 
an interview to cheak whether they are physically ﬁ t and eligible and based on the number of vacancies recruitment will be 
made to Grade III of the relevant post. Only the applicants selected will be acknowledged by a letter and the list of results 
will be published on the website www.health.gov.lk.
Applicants who satisfy the quali ﬁ cations for the posts of Attendant (male/female) and Telephone Operator given 
in this notiﬁ cation will be selected on the order of merit, on the results of a written examination held by the Secretary of the 
Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. Only the applicants selected will be acknowledged by a letter and 
the list of results will be published on the website www.health.gov.lk.
Note.– These who are selected to the post of Attendant (male/female) will be given a training of three months. 
Appointments of the Trainees recruited under the open stream who do not comply with the disciplinary and 
leave rules of leave of the training institute or fail the examination conducted at the end of the training will 
be cancelled. 
Applicants who satisfy the qualiﬁ cations for the post of Cook given in this notiﬁ cation will be selected on the results 
of a written examination and vocational test conducted by the Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous 
Medicine. Written examination will be held ﬁ rst and the applicants who pass the written examination will be called for the 
vocational test on the order of merit of the marks they obtain. Those who pass the vocational test will be recruited to the post 
of Cook on the order of merit of the total marks they obtain at the written examination and vocational test. 
10. Details of Written Examination are as follows : 
A for the post of ward clerk (female) belonging to Management Assistant Non-Technical Seg. - 02.
Name of the 
Question paper
Syllabus Duration Maximum 
Marks
Minimum 
Pass Marks
1. General 
Knowledge
To test the logical reasoning and general knowledge related to 
the relevant ﬁ eld
02 hours 100 40%
2. Intelligence 
Test
To test the candidate's ability of understanding questions 
given in the form of terms, numbers and pictures through 
their conclusions and their the ability of understanding the 
qualiﬁ cations between the time and space
01 1/2 
hours
100 40%

<!-- page 5 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2018
1029
 ( a) Marks will be deducted for unclear hand writing and spelling mistakes in all written question papers. 
 ( b) At least 40% of the marks should be obtained for each subject above. Recruitments will strictly be made on 
the order of merit depending on the number of vacancies existing. 
(b)  A for the post of Attendant (male/female), Telephone Operator and Cook belonging to Primary Semi Skilled.
Name of the 
Question paper
Syllabus Duration Maximum 
Marks
Minimum 
Pass Marks
Subject related 
knowledge
Knowledge on the duties of the post, knowledge on use of 
equipment, knowledge on technical safety while engaged in the 
vocation, vocational knoweldge. 
01 1/2 
hours
100 40%
 11. Details of the vocational test for the post of cook.
Name of the Question paper Syllabus Maximum 
Marks
Total 
Marks
Pass 
Marks
Subject related knoweldge 
(Technical functions 
relevant to the post, 
identifying installing and 
repairing equipment)
1. Basic knowledge relevant to the ﬁ eld
2. Knowledge on installing and repairing equipment
3. Identifying defeats of the equipment in the relevant ﬁ eld
4. Knowledge on use of equipment in the relevant ﬁ eld
20
20
40
20
100 40%
12. Identity of Candidate. – Only the applicants who forward applications which are correct in all respects will 
be called for the written examination. Following are accepted in support of the identity of the applicants at the written 
examination : 
 ( a) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of Registration of Persons, 
 ( b) Valid passport, 
 ( c) Valid driving license. 
13. Terms of engagement and conditions of service : 
 (a) These posts are pensionable. you shall be subject to any policy decision taken by the government in future 
in respect of the pension scheme you are entitled to. 
 ( b) Appointees to these posts are subject to a probation period of three years. 
 ( c) You shall obtain the pro ﬁ ciency in the other of ﬁ cial language in addition to the language you entered the 
service within a period of 05 years from the date of recruitment to the post as per the public administration 
circular No. 01/2014 and consequent circulars. 
 ( d) Shall pass the ﬁ rst efﬁ ciency bar examination before expiration of 03 years. 
 ( e) Applicants selected to the post of ward clerk (female) and the applicants selected to the posts of attendant 
(male/female) telephone operator and cook will be subject to scheme of recruitment for Management Assistant 
Non-Technical Seg - 02 category of service and the scheme of recruitment for Primary Semi Skilled category 
of service respectively and also to the amendments made to the above schemes of recruitment from time to 
time, establishments code, ﬁ nancial regulations, procedural rules issued by the public service commission 
and the orders and regulations that may be issued by the government. 
 
14. Applications not conforming to the specimen form of application which is at the end of this noti ﬁ cation and 
applications for which examination fee is not paid properly and applications ﬁ lled incompletely and received late will be 
rejected without any notice. Receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged. Any complaint of loss or delay in the post 
will not be entertained. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2018
1030
15. Number to be recruited to the posts will be decided based on the number of vacancies existing at the time. If 
the Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine decides to grant permanent appointments will be made to Grade 
III of the relevant post subject to the conditions in the schemes of recruitment and the number of vacancies existing. Salary 
Scale PL-02-2016 Rs. 25,250 -10x270 - 10x300 - 10x330 - 12x350 - Rs. 38,450 mentioned in the public administration 
circular No. 03/2016 is entitled to the posts of attendant (male/female) Telephone Operator and cook and salaries will be paid 
according to Schedule II of the same circular. Salary scale MN-01-2016 Rs. 27,140 - 10x300 - 11x350 - 10x495 - 10x660 
- Rs. 45,540 is entitled to the post of ward clerk (female) which is set out in the public administration Circular No. 03/2016 
and salaries will be paid according to Schedule II of the same circular. 
16. Particulars of educational quali ﬁ cations and other quali ﬁ cations should be mentioned very carefully and 
accurately when ﬁ lling the applications. If the certi ﬁ cates forwarded in support of the quali ﬁ cations are found to be false 
after making appointments action will be taken to refer the matter to the criminal investigations Department for taking legal 
action and also action will be taken to cancel the appointment and dismiss such applicant from the service and disciplinary 
action will be taken regarding the matter and enter his/her name into the blacklist which is an index of the names of persons 
who are not allowed to enter the public service. 
17. Final decision regarding any matter not provide for in this Gazette noti ﬁ cation shall be as ordered by the 
Secretary of Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine further the Secretary of Health reserves the right to ﬁ ll 
or refrain from ﬁ lling the vacancies or ﬁ ll some of the vacancies. 
18. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Gazette  Notiﬁ cation the 
Sinhala text shall prevail. 
  J
ANAKA SUGATHADASA, 
  Secretary, 
  Ministry of Health, Nutrition and Indigenous Medicine. 
Date ................
APPLICATION 
O
PEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF WARD CLERK (FEMALE) BELONGING TO MANAGEMENT 
ASSISTANT NON-TEACHNICAL SEG. 02 (MN-1-2006) AND TO THE POSTS OF ATTENDANT (MALE/FEMALE), TELEPHONE OPERATOR, 
COOK BELONGING TO PRIMARY SEMI SKILLED (PL-02-2006) CATEGORY OF SERVICE OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH NUTRITION AND 
INDIGENOUS MEDICINE - 2018
Language Medium of examination : The post applied 
 Sinhala - 1 1.  .............................................
 Tamil  - 2 2.  .............................................
 English  - 3 3.   .............................................
 (Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
01. (a) Name of the applicant with initials (In Block Capitals) Eg. : Mr. SILV A  A. B.
  Mr./Mrs./Ms :––––––––––––.
 (b) Name in full (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
 (c) Name in full (In Sinhala or Tamil) :––––––––––––.
02. (i) Postal Address (In English Block Capitals) :––––––––––––.
 (ii) Permanent Address (In Sinhala or Tamil) :––––––––––––.
 (iii) District of Residence :––––––––––––.   
 (iv) Telephone No. : Land :––––––––––––. Mobile :––––––––––––.
 (v) Address to which the admission for the examination should be posted (In English Block letters) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2018
1031
03. Date of Birth : Year Month Date
 (i) National Identity Card Number : 
 (ii) Male/Female :
 (iii) Age as at the closing date of applications : Year  Month  Date
04. (i) Whether a citizen of Sri Lanka : Yes No  (Mark in the relevant cage)
05. Educational Qualiﬁ cations : (Relevant certiﬁ cates should be attached) :
 (i) G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination : Year :––––––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––––––.
No. Subject Result No. Subject Result
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
 (ii) G. C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :  Year :––––––––––––.  Index No. :––––––––––––.
  
No. Subject Result No. Subject Result
1. 3.
2. 4.
 (iii) Experience : Yes  No  (Mark in the relevant cage)
 
  Mention the relevant particulars (Certi ﬁ cate should be submitted in proof) :––––––––––––.
 (iv) V ocational Quali ﬁ cations (Relevant to the post) Yes  No       (Mark in the relevant cage) 
 
  Give relevant particulars (Certi ﬁ cate should be submitted in proof) :––––––––––––.
06. Have you ever been convicted by a court of law ? Yes  No  (Mark in the relevant cage)
 If yes, give relevant particulars :––––––––––––.
07. Certi ﬁ cate of the applicant : 
I hereby certify that the information furnished herein by me are true and correct according to my knowledge 
and belief, and that receipt obtained by paying the prescribed examination fees is af ﬁ xed here. I am also aware that if any 
particulars contained herein found to be false or incorrect before selection this application will be cancelled and if found so 
after selection I am liable to be dismissed without any compensation. 
Afﬁ x here the receipt obtained by paying the money. Keep a photocopy with you.
  ––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the applicant. 
Date :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I  fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2018'04'12
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 12.04.2018
1032
08. Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant : 
I certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Ms........................................ is personally known to me and placed his/her 
signature in my presence on ...................................
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the attester. 
Date :––––––––––––.
Full name of the attesting ofﬁ cer :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(Place the ofﬁ cial stamp)
09. Only for the ofﬁ cers who are serving in Public Institutions or Semi-Government Institutions :
Certiﬁ cation of the Head of Department/Institute,
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................... who has submitted this applications, has been serving in 
..................... Department/Institute from ........................... to ............................ and disciplinary proceedings are not pending 
against him/her. His/Her work, conduct and attendance are satisfactory/not satisfactory, I also inform that he/she has paid 
prescribed examination fees, and afﬁ xed the receipt and he/she, can/cannot be released from this Department/Institute if he/
she will be selected for the post. 
  ––––––––––––––––––,
  Signature of the Head of Department/Institute. 
04–495
 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.