

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2396$20 - 2024 wf.daia;= ui 06 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2024'08'06
No. 2396/20 -  tuesday,   august  06 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- Pg 6804 - 364 (08/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. d.-B. 3/2021 (III)
COLOMBO PORT CITY ECONOMIC COMMISSION  ACT, No. 11 OF 2021
ReguLatIONs made by the Minister of Investment  Promotion  in  consultation  with  the Colombo Port City economic 
Commission and the Condominium Management  authority established under section 2 of the Condominium Management 
authority Law, No. 10 of 1973, under paragraph (q) of subsection (2) of section 71 of the Colombo Port City economic 
Commission  act, No.  11 of  2021 read with section 54 of  that act.
 Ranil Wickremesinghe,
 Minister of Investment Promotion.
Colombo,
05th august, 2024.
Regulations 
	 1.	 these regulations may be cited as Colombo Port City (apartment Ownership) Regulations No. 06 of 2024.
	 2.	 upon registration of the provisional condominium plan or semi-condominium plan, as the case may be, owner or 
owner and developer of the provisional condominium property or the semi-condominium property shall open an 
escrow account for the relevant project with a licensed commercial bank in order to ensure that all pre-sale proceeds 
are deposited with such escrow account and shall only be utilized for the construction of the condominium project.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.08.2024
2a
 3.  the common elements in a condominium property, provisional condominium property or semi-condominium property 
may be exclusively for the access and enjoyment to a particular parcel or limited number of parcels, and necessary 
demarcation shall be made accordingly in the condominium plan, provisional condominium plan or semi-condominium 
plan, as the case may be.
 4. upon the registration of the condominium plan or semi condominium plan at the Colombo Land Registry in respect 
of any condominium property or semi-condominium property within the area of authority of the Colombo Port 
City, a Management Corporation shall be established which shall be a body corporate with perpetual succession and 
a common seal.
 5. (1)  upon the establishment of the Management Corporation as referred to in regulation 4, there shall be a Council 
for every Management Corporation, which shall consist of a secretary and a treasurer who shall be elected at 
an annual general meeting of the Management Corporation.
  (2) a meeting of the Council shall be presided over by a Chairman who shall be elected for such meeting from 
among the members of the Council present  at  such meeting.
  3)	 Where	any	vacancy	occurs	in	the	office	of	Secretary	or	Treasurer,	the	remaining	members	of	the	Council	shall	
elect	another	member	of	the	Council	to	fill	such	vacancy	at	the	immediately	succeeding	meeting	of	the	Council.
 6. the functions of the secretary of the Management Corporation shall  include the following: -
 (a) to prepare and distribute the minutes of the Management Corporation;
 (b) to prepare and distribute the minutes of the Council;
 (c) to	submit	a	motion	for	confirmation	of	the	minutes	of	any	meeting	of	the	Management	Corporation	or	the	
Council at the next meeting of the Management Corporation or the Council, as the case may be, including such 
notices to members of the Management Corporation or the Council;
 
(d) to reply communications addressed to the Management Corporation;
 (e) to convene meetings of the Management Corporation and the Council; and
 (f) to oversee all administrative and secretarial matters of the Management Corporation and the Council.
 7. the functions of the treasurer of the Management Corporation shall include the following: -
 (a) to notify the owners of condominium parcels about any contributions to be recovered from them in terms of 
the decisions taken at the meetings of the Management Corporation and the Council; and
 (b) to receive, acknowledge, account and deposit in an account in a licensed commercial bank any money paid 
to	the	Management	Corporation	and	to	maintain	proper	accounting	records	and	prepare	the	required	financial	
statements.
 8. the Management Corporation shall be responsible for maintaining the following records properly: - 
 (a) a register of the names of the current owners of condominium parcels together with their respective addresses 
and contact details;
 (b) the minutes of meetings of both the Management Corporation and the Council;
 (c)  the accounting records relating to receipts and expenditure of  both the Management Corporation and the Council;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'08'06
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 06.08.2024
3a
 (d) the notices served on the Management Corporation;
 
 (e) the copies of correspondence received and sent by the Management Corporation, for a minimum period of ten 
years; and
 (f)  the notices of meetings of the Management Corporation and the Council, for a minimum period of ten years.
9. (1)  any person including the owner or owner  and  developer  may, with  the approval of the Commission, operate 
serviced apartments for residential purposes owned by individual owners of condominium parcels on such terms 
and conditions to be agreed upon between the parties.
 (2)  the Commission may issue guidelines in respect of the operation and maintenance of such serviced apartments.
 10. the Management Corporation shall establish a sinking Fund as set out in subsection (3a) of section 20H of the 
apartment Ownership Law.
 11. In these regulations -
 “apartment Ownership Law” means the apartment Ownership Law, No. 11 of 1973;
 “Commission” means the Colombo Port City economic Commission established under the provisions of section 
3 of the Colombo Port City economic Commission act, No. 11 of 2021;
“developer” means the owner or person who has been authorised to carry out the development activity in the relevant 
plot of land; and
 “serviced apartment” means a fully furnished condominium parcel with amenities for both short term and long-
term occupation.
eOg  08 - 0087
PRINted at  tHe deP aR tMeNt  OF gOVeRNMeNt  PRINtINg,  sRI LaNKa.