

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … ––
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 830 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"224 – 2021 wfm%a,a ui 16 jeks isl=rdod – 2021'04'16
No. 2,224  –  fRiday ,  aPRil 16, 2021
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th May, 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 23rd april, 2021.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
827 - B 82222- 5,403 (04/2021)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
828
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
829
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
830
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births, Deaths and marriages/Additional marriages - Tamil medium 
 
aMPaRa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are called for the Post of Registrar of Births, deaths and Marriages/additional Marriages for the divisions 
set out in the Schedule hereof.
01. applicants should be a permanent resident of relevant Births, deaths and Marriages/additional Marriages 
division and entitled to reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired 
sufficient interest and influence amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both male and female candidates can apply for this post. 
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications.(Maximum age of retirement is 65 years).
04. applicants for the Post of Registrar of Marriages should be married and should not be a widow/widower or 
divorced.
05. applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including tamil language with 02 credit passes in not 
more than two (02) sittings in GcE (o/l) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language as 
per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. in case a subject contains 02 parts at GcE (o/l) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered 
as one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
06. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensures respect of the 
post and easy access by all or majority of residents.
07. additional details such as Village name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Births, 
Deaths and Marriages/ Additional Marriages, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be 
obtained from notices exhibited in public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or 
relevant land and District Registries, Grama Niladhari Offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices 
depicted in the Schedule hereunder.
08. Relevant application and the said “annex -01” inclusive of Village name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18th May 2021 by registered post to the address given 
in the Schedule. 
 W. M. M. B. 
Weerasekara, 
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla,
on this 24th day of March, 2021.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
831
schedule  
District Divisional
Secretariat
Post & Division for which Applications are 
called
Address to which
Applications should be sent
ampara Karthiv
Post of Registrar of Marriages in Nindavur Pattu 
division and Birth and deaths of Karthiv (tamil 
Medium)
district Secretary/ additional 
Registrar General,district 
Secretariat, ampara
04-388
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPARTmENT
 
Post of Registrar of births and Deaths-Tamil medium
 
aMPaRa  diStRict
aPPlicatioNS are called for the Post of Registrar  of Births and deaths for the divisions set out in the schedule hereof;
01. applicant should be a permanent resident of relevant Registrar of Births and deaths division and entitled to 
reasonable properties and should be a person with outstanding personality who has acquired sufficient interest and influence 
amongst the residents of the area.
02. Both Male and female candidates can apply for this post.
03. applicant should be not less than 30 years and not more than 55 years of age as at the closing date of the 
applications.(Maximum age of retirement is 65 years)
04. applicant should have passed minimum of 06 subjects including tamil language with 02 credit passes in not 
more than two (02) sittings in GcE (o/l) examination together with the ability to perform duties in secondary language as 
per the language requirement of the populate within the division or else should have passed in any other similar examination.
N.B. in case a subject contains 02 parts at GcE (o/l) or any other similar examination, it shall be considered as 
one subject and pass is applicable only if the applicant passes both parts of the said subject.
05. Applicant should have the ability to establish the office in a centrally located building that ensure respect of the 
post and enable easy access by all or majority of residents.
Under circumstances where there is no adequate office facilities provided within the hospital premises, recruited 
candidate for post of the Registrar of Births and Deaths, should be able to establish his/her office at a suitable building 
located in the close proximity within 01 k.m. from the Hospital.
06. additional details such as Village name list/Grama Niladhari divisions of the relevant division of Births and 
Deaths, relevant educational and other qualifications required for this post, could be obtained from notices exhibited in 
public places within the division such as district Secretariat, divisional Secretariat or relevant land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari offices, Samurdhi Development Society Offices and Post Offices depicted in the schedule hereunder.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
832
07. Relevant application and the said “annex -01” inclusive of Village name list/Grama Niladhari divisions could 
be collected from District Secretariat (GA Office), relevant land and District Registry or Divisional Secretariat. Applications 
could also be downloaded from the official website (www.rgd.gov.lk) of the Registrar General’s department.
09. Duly filled applications should be forwarded on or before 18th May 2021 by registered post to the address given 
in the Schedule. 
 W. M. M. B. Weerasekara, 
 Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha, 
Battaramulla,
on this 24th day of March, 2021.
schedule
District Divisional 
Secretariat
Post and Division for which applications 
are called
Address to which applications should 
be sent
ampara akkarapattu Post of Registrar in Birth and deaths of 
Karunkodithiv division (tamil Medium)
district Secretary / additional 
Registrar General, district Secreariat, 
ampara
04–387
––––––––––––––––––––––
v ACANCIES fOR SRI LANkA REGuLAR NAvAL fORCE CADET OffICERS
1. V acaNciES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force for Cadet Officers.
2. Applications are invited from Male candidates possessing the qualifications for following branches :- 
 (a) Executive Branch
 (b) logistics Branch
 (c) Electrical/Electronic Engineering Branch
 (d) Naval infantryBranch
 (e) Provost Branch
3. Basic Educational Qualifications :
(a) Having passed the G.c.E (o/l) Examination in 06 subjects with two credits including Mathematics and 
English in not more than two sittings.
(b) Having passed the G.c.E (a/l) Examination with 3 subjects in one sitting.
(1) Executive Branch - Having studied Biology,Physics, chemistry and combined Mathematics 
for the G.c.E (a/l) Examination.
(2) Naval infantry - Having studied Mathematics, Science, commerce, technology or in arts 
Stream for the G.c.E (a/l)Examination.
(3) logistics Branch - Having studied in commerce Stream for the G.c.E (a/l) 
Examination. 
   

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
833
(4) Electrical/Electronic  Having studied Physics, combined Engineering Branch Mathematics, 
chemistry for the G.c.E (a/l) Examination in Mathematics stream 
should have obtained 02 “c” & 01 “S”.
(5) Provost Branch - Having studied Mathematics, Science,commerce,  technology or art 
Stream for the GcE (a/l) Examination.
(c) Having obtained not less than 30 marks for the common General test at the G.c.E (a/l) Examination.
(d) Having obtained minimum qualifications for university entry based on the G.C.E (A/L) Examination 
results(a certified copy of the results sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations should be 
sent along with the application form).
4. Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force.
(a) Nationality -  Should be a citizen of Sri lanka.
(b) age  - Should not be,less than 18 years and more than      
22 years as at the closing date for applications.
(c) Height  - Should not be below 168cm (5 feet 6 inches). 
   (Should not be below 170cm (5 feet 7 inches) for Provost  Branch).
(d) Weight -  Should not be below 52 kg
(e) chest -  Should not be below 81cm (32 inches)
(f) color Vision  -  Std ii
(g) Visual acuity -  left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without  spectacles and lenses) 
(h) Civil Status  -  Candidates should be unmarried. No Cadet  Officer will be permitted to get 
married during the period of  training and  for a period of one year from the date 
of commissioning.
5. Conditions of service :-
(a) Candidates will be enlisted into the Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force as Cadet Officers and will undergo a 
basic training course. Uponsuccessful completion of the basic training with respect to the branch for which 
the enlistment is made, the Cadet Officers will be commissioned as Acting Sub Lieutenant.
(b) Cadet Officers will be required to undergo training at any place in Sri Lanka or abroad as decided by the 
commander of the Sri lanka Navy in consultation with the Ministry of defence.
(c) all the enlistees shall be subject to laws and instructions which are empowered by the existing Naval act, 
Naval orders &Memoranda of the Naval act and which may hereafter be imposed and given respectively.
(d) In the event that a Cadet Officer voluntarily terminates his candidature during the training, written approval 
should be obtained in this regard as per procedures of the Sri lanka Navy and his mother/father or guardian 
will be required to refund to the Government of Sri lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the 
Government of Sri Lanka on account of such Cadet Officer.
(e) If at any time during his training a Cadet Officer is reported by the authorities as being unsuitable to qualify 
for a commission due to the reasons of misconduct or due to causes within his control, he will be required 
to refund to the Sri lanka Navy all expenses incurred on his training and will be required to enter into a 
bond to this effect with the commander of the Sri lanka Navy acting on behalf of the Government of Sri 
lanka.
(f) accidents during the training period and long-term disabilities will be covered by the insurance already 
implemented at the Sri lanka Navy and the Sri lanka Navy shall not be liable for any special compensation 
payment or responsibility.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
834
6. Pay and Allowances : The payments will be made with effect from 01.10.2020 as per the Management Services 
circular No. 03/2016. accordingly,
(a) Basic Salary - Rs.32,380.00
(b) cost of living - Rs.  7,800.00
(c) Uniform cleaning allowance - Rs.     525.00
(d) Hardline allowance (operational areas) - entitlement, after the basic training
(e) Hardline allowance - entitlement, after the basic training
 (Non - operational areas)   
(f) additional allowances - additional allowance Rs.1,000.00
  - special additional allowance   Rs. 3,000.00
(g) Qualification pay - Rs.    637.50
Note: The basic salary of the Cadet Officer is Rs.32,380.00 as at 01.01.2020 and the basic salary will be 
revised annually.
 
7. Entitlement to facilities, allowances and privileges during and after the training period :
(a) Three sets of railway warrants per year will be issued free of charge (for officer, spouse and children if 
applicable).
(b) An additional set of railway warrants or imbursement of bus fare for officers living in the base to visit 
their homes and return to the base (for areas in which Naval bus transport service is not available).
(c) Uniforms and ancillary items will be issued free of charge.
(d) Medical facilities will be provided free of charge.
(e) the enlistees will be provided with food and accommodation facilities.
(f) Married officers can apply for Government married quarters based on the vacancies available and married 
officers who do not occupy married quarters will be entitled to a rent allowance of Rs. 3,200.00 up to               
Rs. 7,700.00.
8. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) additional subjects will not be considered as G.C.E (O/L) educational qualifications and  the enlistment 
procedure will give special attention to individual achievements at the national and international level 
sports activities.
(b) Applications that do not meet the basic qualifications and educational qualifications  mentioned in Section 
3 and 4 above will be rejected without any notice.
(c) Enlistees will be given the opportunity to follow degree courses offered by the General  Sir John Kotelawala 
defence University or local/foreign degree courses.
(d) any candidate who may have a special skill to the service may be considered at the  discretion of the 
commander of the Sri lanka Navy even though the candidate may not have the requisite height/chest/
weight.
(e) the selected candidates will be required to comply with regulations and articles already made or may 
hereafter be made for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Official Language Act No. 33 of 1956.
(f) applications should be in the form of the specimen given below and should be  completed clearly in 
detail and in handwriting. duly completed applications should be forwarded to “Senior Staff Officer 
(Recruiting), P.O. box 593, Navy headquarters,  Colombo 01”. Under registered cover on or before 
1200 hrs on 10th May 2021. applications that are not sent by registered post will not be accepted. the 
top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application should bear “Post of Cadet Officer”.  
applications received after the closing date and time and applications that do not comply with the 
requirements stipulated in the Gazette Notification will not be entertained. For further information please 
visit the website,www.navy.lk or call 0117195154.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
835
g. No notice will be given regarding the rejected applications. any complaint with regard to loss or delay of 
an application will not be considered. Moreover receipt of the application will not be acknowledged.
h. candidates who are in Public Service/corporations/Boards/civil Establishments should forward their 
applications through the Heads of departments/corporations/Boards/civil Establishments with a 
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
j. candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents in the interview or any 
other occasion.
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth and a certified copy,
(2) Certificates of educational qualifications required for the branch applied for,
(3) School Leaving Certificate,
(4) Grama Niladhari Certificate obtained within six months,
(5) Certificates of professional/technical experience (if any) gained from a recognized  institution,
(6) Three recent character certificates. One certificate should be from principal of the school last 
attended and the other certificates should be from a responsible person who knows the applicant for 
more than two years or the present employer (if currently employed),
(7) Certificates of sports activities, cadetting etc.
(8) on every occasion an applicant is summoned for an interview, he should produce his National 
identity card issued by the department of Registration of Persons.
k. applications of candidates who fail to produce the documents when requested will not be considered.
l. Original certificates or original documents should not be enclosed with the application form and the Sri 
lanka Navy will not be responsible for the safety of the originals, if sent by post.
m. any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to 
disqualification or dismissal when the false statement is revealed before the selection or after the selection, 
respectively.
9. enlistment Procedure :
(a) Candidates who fulfill the above requirements should pass a preliminary medical test conducted by the 
Sri Lanka Navy. On arrival for the first interview, height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates 
whose height, vision and weight are below the standards specified in the Gazette Notification will not be 
interviewed.candidates so passed will be required to undergo a Physical Endurance test as mentioned 
below. candidates who pass the Physical Endurance test shall have to appear in an interview as prescribed 
by the commander of the Sri lanka Navy.the candidates thus selected shall appear before an interview 
board consisting of the commander of the Sri lanka Navy and a representative of the Ministry of defence.
(b) Requirements to pass the Physical Endurance test
  
event Rounds Time (Minutes/Seconds)
1600 m run
Push Up
Sit Up
arm Bending
Standing Board Jump
Rope climbing
Shuttle Run 
-
25 or more
25 or more
05 or more
242 cm or more
-
-
06-08 minutes
02 minutes
02 minutes
02 minutes
-
-
11 seconds

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
836
(c) candidates selected for the interview will be informed about the date, time and place of  such interviews in 
writing and by post to the address given. travelling or other expenses will not  be paid in this respect.
(d) Candidates likely to be qualified after the final interview will be required to present  themselves before a Sri 
lanka Navy Medical Board.
(e) anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him a testimonial.  any form of 
canvassing or attempt to influence on the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such 
candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
(g) Validity of the certificates of educational and professional qualifications produced by the candidates will be 
verified in coordination with the Department of Examinations.
(h) Reports on security clearance of all candidates will be subject to re-examination by the Naval Headquarters.
10. The Commander of the Sri Lanka Navy reserves the power to take final decisions on enlistment process of 
Cadet Officers in the Sri Lanka Navy and upon national security, military and administrative requirements of the Sri Lanka 
Navy, final decision in making changes to the above requirements and conditions will be at the discretion of the Commander 
of Sri lanka Navy.
 
Note:  This Gazette notification is published in Sinhala and English. In the event of any inconsistency between 
Sinhala and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 dNS UlUGEtENNE, RSP & Bar,VSV , USP, ndc,psc
 Vice admiral,
 commander of the Navy.
 
Naval Headquarters,
P.o. Box 593,
colombo 01.
Application for Sri Lanka Regular Naval Force Cadet Officer
01. Nationality:…………………………………………………………………………
 (State whether a citizen of Sri lanka by descent or by registration and if registration, quote number and date of the 
certificate)
02. Branch applied for (according to priority): ………………………………………...
03. Full Name (as per the National Identity Card):…………............…………………
04. National Identity Card Number: ………………………………………………..
05. Permanent Address:……………………………………………………………..
06. Postal Address: ………………………………………………………………….
07. Date of Birth:…………………………………………………………………….
08.  Age :Years ……….. Months ………… Days ………… (as at 10
th  May 2021)
09.  Height :…………... (cm.) Chest :……….. (cm.)Weight :………….. (kg.)
10. Nearest Police Station to permanent address: …………………………………….

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
837
11. District: ……………………………………………………………………………..
12. Electorate: ………………………………………………………………………….
13. Grama Niladhari Division: ………………………………………………………….
14. Telephone Number: ………………………………………………………………..
15. Civil Status:…………………………………………………………………………
16.  Gender:……………………………………………………………………………..
17. Schools Attended:………………………………………………………………….
18.  Particulars of School/University attended: …………………..........………………
Name of the School /
University
Type of examination Year of examination Subjects Passed (including 
grading)
G.c.E (o/l)
G.c.E (a/l)
other
19.  Particulars of employment after leaving School/University (if applicable):
Name & Address of employer Nature of employment Period of Service
To From
20.  Particulars of parents:
full Name Place of Birth occupation Present address
father
Mother
21. Any special qualification for the post: ………………………………………
22.  details of available achievements in sports (Give details about  competitions and sports teams with dates and 
achievements reached) : ………………...................................………
23.  other achievements at School/University or in outside organizations (Give details with dates) 
:………………………………………………………………..
24.  any previous service in the armed forces or V olunteer force or cadet corps or  Boy Scouts organization                                                        
:………………………………………………………
 
25.  Have you applied earlier to join the Sri lanka Navy force or any of the armed Services or Police, if so give details and 
the outcome of such applications :……………………………………………
26.  Have you had a conviction or received a suspended sentence by a civil or military court, if so give details                                                              
: ……………………………………………………………….

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
838
27. i f employed in a Government department or in the Public Sector/Board/corporation  (including the central Bank, State
Banks, Universities, civil organizations controlled by the Government, companies etc.,), reasons for termination of
employment:………………………………………………...
28. Particulars of testimonials:
29. d eclaration to be signed by the applicant:
 i declare on my honor that aforesaid details given by me are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. 
i have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the regulations which will apply in respect of those 
candidates who are selected for commission in the Sri lanka Navy published in the Gazette of the Government of Sri lanka.
……………………...
Signature of applicant. 
Date :…………………
04–549
–––––––––––––––––––
PROvINCIAL  COuNCIL  PubLIC  SERvICE  COmmISSION – NORTh  WESTERN  PROvINCE
Recruitment to the Post of Bio Medical Engineer (Executive Officers’ Category)  -Grade III of the 
Department of health Services ( North Western Province) -2021 – (Open )
tHiS NoticE iS PUBliSHEd UNdER G 04-624 iN SaME GazEttE iN tHE iV(a) SEctioN alSo.
aPPlicatioNS are invited from the males and females who have the following qualifications to be recruited to the Post 
of Bio Medical Engineer(Executive Officers’ Category)  -Grade III of the Department of Health ( North Western Province) 
in North Western Provincial council Public Service
01. Educational Qualifications /Professional Qualifications.-
1.1  Educational Qualifications:-
 candidate should possess a degree on Electronic/ Electrical/Mechanical Engineering/Bio medical 
Engineering from a university recognized by the University Grant commission
Note:- Priority will be given to the candidates who possess a degree for Bio Medical Engineering 
Science
1.2   Experience:-
Priority will be given to the candidates who have two ( 2) year  experience as a Bio Medical Engineer in 
a government or private institute.
 (This should be proved by a service certificate)
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
839
02.  Physical Fitness .-
Every applicant should be mentally and physically fit to serve in any part of North Western Province  and to discharge 
the duties assigned to the post. 
 03.  Other Qualifications .-
 i.  age should be not less than 21 years and not more than 45 years as at closing date of   application. 
 ii.  applicants should have excellent moral character and should be in good health condition.
 iii.  all educational, professional, and other requirements shall be completed by the closing date of   application 
and the certificates should have been obtained on or before that date.  
 iV . any person who bears priesthood in any Religious Sect is ineligible to apply for this post. applications are called 
island-wide. Priority will be given to the permanent residents of North Western Province, and if there are no 
eligible candidates in North Western Province, the candidates from the outside provinces will be considered. 
04.  Salary Scale.-
 as per Sl  1-2016 in  the Public  administration circular No. 03/2016 dated 25-02-2016, the monthly    
 salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 47,615 – 10x 1335 – 8x 1630 – 17x 2170 –  Rs. 110,895.
05.  Conditions of the Service .-
 i.  this post is permanent. the pension scheme applicable to this post will be subject to a policy decision taken by 
the government in the future.
 II. The appointees to this post will  subject to probation period of (three) 03 years and will be confirmed at the 
end of the probation period, if his/her work and conduct is satisfactory, and if the appointee has passed the first 
Efficiency Bar, and if he/she has satisfied the other requirements needed to be confirmed in the service.
 III  The appointees shall acquire the competency in the other official language/ languages other than the language 
that qualified for this post, during 03 years from the date of appointment, in terms of Public Administration 
circular No. 18/2020.
 1V . In case an officer is qualified for this service in another language medium other than an official language, he/she 
shall acquire the specified official language proficiency during the period of probation.
 V . the appointees shall be subject  to the provisions of  Establishment code of  democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri lanka, Procedural Rules of the North Western Provincial council, financial Regulations,  financial 
Regulations  of North Western Province, disciplinary Procedure code of North Western Province, departmental 
orders, and other orders and regulations issued  by the government and the North Western Provincial council, in 
addition to the regulations and functions assigned by the Scheme of Recruitment /Promotion applicable to this 
post.
06.  Method of Recruitment .-
 the applicants will be subject to a general interview by a panel of interviewers appointed by the North  Western 
Provincial Council Public Service Commission, to scrutinize whether they have  fulfilled all the required qualifications 
specified in this notification, and those who are proved to be qualified will be subject to a structured interview. they will 
be recruited to the existing number of vacancies in the post of Bio Medical Engineer, according to the merit order of the 
structured interview. 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
840
07.  Structured Interview .-
 7.2  Marking procedure for the structured interview shall be based upon the following.
fields Maximum Marks 
1.   Additional Educational Qualifications 
      For post graduate degree applicable to the field                 50
2.   Experience
     - for more than two years in a public, semi – government or a registered private 
institution ( 02 Marks for each year)
       (This should be proved  by a letter or a certificate which is accepted by the 
board of interview) 20
3. Researches and publications in relation to the field
     ( this should be accepted by the board of interview)
  
     ( Marks 5x2)
10
4. Contribution for Special Projects and/ or special trainings
     contribution for a special project / training for more than 06 months
     ( Marks 5x3)
15
Performance at the interview 05
total Marks 100
08. Examination Fees .-
a Sum of Rupees 1200/- as the examination fee should be paid to a divisional Secretariat in North Western Province  
to be credited to the Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of North Western Provincial council and the receipt NWP (uq)/2 obtained 
from the Divisional Secretariat to be affixed to the application. Other receipts or money orders will not be entertained except 
the receipts obtained so, from the divisional Secretariat. it should be noted that the examination fee is non refundable under 
any circumstances. Retaining a photocopy of the receipt may be useful for future reference.
09.  Method of Applying .-
 9.1  applications should be prepared in a4 size paper using the both sides as per the specimen application given at 
the end of this notification. Duly filled applications should be sent under registered post to reach “Secretary, 
Provincial Council Public Service Commission North Western Province, Provincial Council Office Complex, 
Kurunegala” on or before 13.05.2021. “Recruitment  to the Post of Bio Medical Engineer (Executive Officers’ 
category)  -Grade iii of the department of Health ( North Western Province) -2021 – ( open )” should be written 
in the top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing the application.
 9.2 Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant :-
  the signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice 
of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ or Staff  Grade 
officer holding a permanent post in the Public Service/Provincial Public Service whose monthly salary is above 
Rs. 41, 580/-  
 9.3 the applicants who are already employed in the permanent Public/Provincial council Public Service should 
forward their applications through their respective Heads of the department/ institution.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
841
 9.4 the applications which do not comply with the specimen, not carry the receipt of examination fee paid before 
the due date, or late, unclear or incomplete will be rejected without any notice. further it is responsibility of the 
applicant to check whether the prepared application complies with the specimen. the applicant should bear the 
liability for the losses due to incomplete applications. it would be useful to keep the photocopy of the completed 
application. the receipt  of the applications will not be acknowledged. 
 9.5  the closing date of applications is 13.05.2021.
10. The applications which do not have the required qualifications specified by this notification will be rejected. The 
originals of the documents to prove the qualifications should be produced at the structured interview. It is compulsory that 
all the applicants must have fulfilled all the relevant requirements on or before the closing date of applications.  
11. if a candidate is found ineligible at any stage prior to appointment the candidature of such applicant is liable to be 
cancelled. in case of such false information or intentional omission of any accurate information is found after recruitment, 
actions will be taken to dismiss from the Service.
12. The decision of the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission will be final and conclusive on 
the matters of this notification or any matter that may not cover by this notification. Further, any matter not provided for in 
this notification shall be determined by the North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission.
13. North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission reserves the right of taking the final decision 
on conducting or not conducting this structured interview, selecting or not selecting the candidates after conducting the 
interview, and determining the number of vacancies to be filled. 
14. If there is any mismatch or inconsistency among the language phrases of this notification which is published in 
Sinhala, tamil or English, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
   By order of North Western Provincial council Public Service commission,
 t. B. W
ickramasinghe, 
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial council Public Service commission
Provincial council Public Service commission- NWP
Provincial Council Office Complex,
Kurunegala
06th april, 2021.
SPEciMEN aPPlicatioN
      
( For office use only)
Provincial Council Public Service Commission – NWP
Recruitment to the Post of Bio Medical Engineer (Executive Officers’ Category)  -Grade III of the Department of 
health ( North Western Province) -2021 – (Open )
01. 1.1  Name with Initials (Sinhala / Tamil) : …………………………………..........................……………………
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
1.2  Name with initials ( English Block Letters) :  ………………………………………………………………… 
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………….

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
842
1.3  Full Name (Sinhala/Tamil) :……………………………………………………………………………………
 …………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
1.4  Full Name (English Block Letters) : …………………………………………………………………………… 
 ………………………………………………………………………………………………………
1.5  E-mail Adress:………………………………………………………………………………
1.6    National identity card No.
02. 2.1  Permanent Address :…………………………………………………………………………………………
2.2  Telephone Number ( Personal) :……………………………………… (Official) :…………………………
03.  Gender : ((Please mark √ inside the appropriate cage)
   female –     Male – 
04. Date of Birth :    Year:……………  Month :……………….. Date :………………….
4.1  age as at 13.05.2021
 Years :   Months :    Days :
       05.  district of Permanent Residency as at  13.05.2021……………………………………………….
  Period of residency in the said district 
  Years : ……………………. Months : ………………… Days : …………………..
      06.   Qualifications:-
6.1   Educational  Qualifications / Professional Qualifications:-………………………………………………… 
………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
6.2    Experience :- …………………………………………………………………………………………………
6.3 Additional Educational  Qualifications :- …………………………………………………………
6.4  Additional Professional  Qualifications :- ………………………………………………………………
6.5  Additional Experience :-  …………………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………………………………………
07. details of the Payment Receipt of Examination fees (the payment shall make to a divisional Secretariat in North 
Western Province).
7.1  Receipt Number :…………… Amount :……… Date : ……
 Divisional Secretariat where the receipt was issued: ……………………………………………………
Please paste the receipt here firmly.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2021'04'16
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 16.04.2021
843
07.  declaration of the applicant
 i, ………………………………………, certify that the information furnished by me in this application is 
true and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief.  i know that i will be ineligible for this post and 
disciplinary actions can be taken against me, if it is found that the information furnished by me is false.
                     Date : …………………                    
 …………………………..
 Signature of the applicant.
Attestation of the Signature of the Applicant
(Strike out unnecessary words)
i do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss……………………………………………………. is known to 
me personally and he / she placed his / her signature before me on ……………………………………..
 Name of the Certifying Officer :……………………………………………………………….
Signature   : ………………………………………………………………
Designation and Official  Stamp :………………………………………………………………
(the signature of the applicant in the application should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice 
of Peace/Commissioner for Oaths/ Attorney-at-Law/ Commissioned Officer in the Armed Forces/ or  Staff Grade 
officer holding a permanent post in the public service/ Provincial Public Service  whose monthly salary is above 
Rs. 41, 580/-)
Recommendation of the head of Department for the applicants who are currently serving in the public service or 
provincial public service
(Strike out unnecessary words)
i hereby certify that the applicant, Mr./Mrs./Miss ………………………………………………………………  is 
an employee who holds a permanent post  in this department and he/she can be released from the service if he/she is selected 
for this post and the particulars given in the application are consistent with the documents in this department and he/she is 
suitable for this post according to the regulations of this notification.
     
 …………………………
 Signature of the Head of department
 (Place the official Stamp).
04-624
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  laNKa.