

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
121
121
wxl 1"901 - 2015 fmnrjdß ui 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'02'06
No. 1,901 – FRIDAY , FEBRUARY 06, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 124
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 143
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th February, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th
February, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
 Government Printer. ( Acting )
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I:I, III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,900 of 30.01.2015 were not published.
(ii) The catalogue of books printed quarterly in April to June, 2012 registered under the printers and Publishers Ordinance has been
published in Part V of this Gazette in English Language only.
Note.—  National Authority on Teacher Education (Repeal) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 16, 2015.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
122
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
123
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
124
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
MATARA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 09th March, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th January, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Matara W elipitiya Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Maduragoda Area General, District Secretariat, Matara.
02–160
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KANDY   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto :
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
125
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 09th March, 2015.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th January, 2015.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kandy Akurana Post of Muslim Marriages Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Waragashinna Area General, District Secretariat, Kandy.
02–161
––––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :–
(a) Technical Engineering Branch;
(b) Electronic Engineering Branch ;
(c) Logistics Branch ;
(d) Medical Brnach ;
(e) Dental Branch ;
(f) Administrative Legal Branch ;
(g) Administrative Band Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Technical Engineering Branch :
Technical Engineering Officer - Male (Regular)
* Full time four (4) year BSc. in Mechanical/Automobile.
Engineering from a recognized university or three (3)
year full time National Diploma in Technology (NDT)
in Mechanical Engineering from the University of
Moratuwa or three and half (3 1/2) year full time Higher
National Diploma in Mechanical Engineering (HNDE)
from Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technological
Education or four (4) year National Diploma in
Engineering Sciences (NDES) awarded by the National
Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Authority.
(b) Electronics Engineering Branch :
Electronics Engineering Officer - Male (Regular)
* Minimum of four (4) year BSc Engineering Degree
in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering
or four (4) year BSc Degree in Physical Science
(Major) with Electronics/Telecom as a main subject
or three (3) year Diploma in Electronic, Telecom
Engineering with three year experience or BSc
Physicla Science Degree with Electronics/Telecom
as a main subject or three (3) year Diploma in
Electronics/Telecom Engineering.
Network Administrator  - Male (Regular)
* Four (4) year BSc Engineering Degree in a computer
related stream or three (3) year BSc Degree in a
computer related stream or BSc Degree with
Computer Science as a major subject or HND or
NIBM Diploma or equivalent with sound knowledge
and experience in Network Administration.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
126
Software Developer  - Male (Regular)
* Four (4) year BSc Engineering Degree in a computer
related stream or three (3) year BSc Degree in a
computer related stream or BSc Degree with
Computer Science as a major subject or HND or
NIBM Diploma or equivalent with sound knowledge
and experience in Software Development using
ASP.NET and C#.NET.
Information/Cyber Security Specialist - Male
(Regular)
* Four (4) year BSc Engineering Degree in a computer
related stream or three (3) year BSc Degree in a
computer related stream or BSc Degree with
Computer Science as a major subject or HND or
NIBM Diploma or equivalent with sound knowledge
and experience in information/cyber security.
Web Designer - Male (Regular)
* Four (4) year BSc in Computer Engineering/IT/
Computer Science or three (3) year BSc in Computer
Engineering/IT/Computer Science or three (3) year
IT related Degree or BSc Degree with Computer
Science as a subject or HND or NIBM Diploma or
equvalent qualification with more than one (1) year
experience in web designing related responsibilities.
* Preference will be given to those with experience
and knowledge on HTML/XHTML/HTML 5, CSS
(Cascade Style sheet), JavaScript, JQuery, flash
action script, PHP, MySQL, ASP.NET, MSSQL.
Note :
* All candidates except for Electronic Engineering
Officers are requried to sit for writing and a practical
test.
* All BSc qualification should be from universities
recognised by the Uiversity Grant Commission of
Sri Lanka.
(c) Logistics Branch
Mess Manager - Male (Regular)
* Higher Diploma in Hotel Management or completion
of all 4 levels of full time basic courses and completion
of intermediate and Advance level in Hospitality
Industry Training, from a recognized Local/Foreign
Institute with minimum of 2 years post qualification
experience in star Class Hotels in Food and Beverages
Departments in executive capacity.
Technical Officer Apparel - Male (Regular)
* A Bachelor Degree in Science, Technology or
Engineering, preferable with a Post Graduate Diploma
qualification in Textile and Clothing Technology with
5 years working experience in apparel sector with
minimum of 3 years as a Trainer/Consultant in Textile
and Apparel Technology covering product
development, productivity improvement
merchandising and work study ; or
* Should have a Diploma in Textile and clothing from
the Sri Lanka Institute of textile and apparel or any
other recognized institute with 2 years working
experience in textile and clothing technology.
(Age not more than 33 years for Degree holders and
26 years for Diploma holders as at 30th April 2015)
(d) Medical Branch :
Medical Officers - Male (Regular)
Flight Lieutenant .– MBBS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Pre-Intern Trainees - Male(Regular)
* MBBS or Medical Degree equivalent to MBBS (Sri
Lanka) from any recognized university of a foreign
country which is accepted by SLMC. They will be
enlisted as Regular Commissioned Officer for a period
of 5 years and should qualify the ERPM examination
and SLMC registration within 5 years from the date of
enlistment.
* Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank
of Flying Officer. After completion of ERPM
examination and with SLMC registration they will be
considered for the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
(e) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant .– BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Dental Students - Male/Female (Regular)
Pilot Officer.– Completed final BDS Part I and studying
in the final year.
Flying Officer.– Completed 2nd BDS and beginning of
3rd year.
Note :
* Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission in the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
* Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka Air
Force until completion of final year. They will be
Commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with the
SLMC.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
127
* Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
* Dental students to submit a certificate from their respective
Universities depicting their year of studies.
(f) Administrative Legal Branch :
Legal Officers - Male (Regular)
* Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka -
Specialized and/or experienced in preparation of
commercial contracts, Notarial documents,
memorandum of understanding, procurement
procedures, court prosecution and handling
disciplinary matters.
Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rnak
of Squadron Leader or Flight Lieutenant in keeping
with their professional qualifications and experience.
(g) Administrative Band Branch
Band Master (Male) Regular
* A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit in English
language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language
in one sitting ; and
* Qualified up to Grade V or above of the Royal College
or Trinity College of Music London or equivalent
qualifications ;
* Ability to train and conduct Military Band/orchestra
and a credit pass in Music at the G . C. E. (O/L)
examination will be an added qualification ;
* Ability to compose music in western and oriental
tradition as well as a sound knowledge on playing
western and oriental instrument will be considered as a
special qualification ; or
* A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E. (O/L)
Examination with four credits including credit in English
language and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil language
in one sitting ; and
* Degree in Fine Arts from the Institute of Aesthetic
Education (Music) in Sri Lanka or passed final Level
(Music) in National Dance and Music examination of
Sri Lanka or "Visharadha" Part II level from
"Bahathkande" Music Academy in India ;
* Ability to train and conduct oriental/western bands
and a credit pass in Music at the G . C. E. (O/L)
examination will be an added qualification ;
* Ability to compose music in both oriental and western
traditions as well as a sound knowledge on playing
western and oriental instruments will be considered as
a speical qualification.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : As at 30th April, 2015
(1) For Technical engineering,
Electronic Engineering, Logistic (Mess Manager)
Branch and Dental Students : 18 to 30 years
(2) For Medical, Dental, Administrative
Legal and Administrative Band
Branch : 18 to 35 years
(e) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
(f) Weight : Body Mass Index should be in
accordance with the Physical
Efficiency Test Standards of the Sri
Lanka Air Force
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With
or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may possesses special qualifications may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height/weight provided
he/she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
128
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15 ( d) (17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :–
Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 =
Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920 - 2 x 7,740 - Rs. 329,400
p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 -12x 15,720 - Rs. 697,320
p. a.
(c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Dental II - Rs. 306,180 -4x7,740 -10x7,800 -3 x 126,000
- Rs. 452,940 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 -12x 15,720 - Rs. 697,320
p. a.
(d) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental
Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I – Rs. 3,400 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs 2,125 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 25,000 per month
(4) Extra duty payments
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 335 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 383 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 528 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 628 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are
to be calculated separately as applicable.
(e) Service Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
3. Hard line allowance Rs. 600 per month.
4. Additional hard line allowance Rs. 4,400 per month
for those serving in operational areas.
5. Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100 will
be paid for per day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 14,449.80 per month (if
permitted to live out).

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
129
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Sepcial allowance 20% of consolidated salary.
12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
13. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
15. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
16. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
17. Rent Allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
18. Service Allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Medical and Dental
Officers in consideration to the number of complete
years of service)
19. Additional Service Allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers
only).
20. 1/20 Allowance - Con pay x 1/20 x 3 days (Maximum)
per month (applicable to service Medical and Dental
Officers only).
21. Extra Duty Payments 120 hours (maximum) per
month (applicable to service Medical and Dental
Officers only).
22. Budget interim allowances Rs. 3,000 per month.
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Command
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Trade Training
School Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach him not later than
1200 noon on 25th February, 2015 under registered cover.
The envelope enclosing the application should be marked
“Application for Commission in the ........... Branch”
Applications received after the closing date and not in
accordance with the requirements of this notification and
not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant ;
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
130
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
K. A. G
UNA TILLEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
9. E-mail Address :––––––––––.
10. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
11. Height :–––––'––––––".
12. District :–––––––––––.
13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
14. Grama Seva Division and Number :–––––––––––.
15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
16. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
19. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
20. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
21. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
22. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
23. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
26. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
131
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that answers given to the above
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be
adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates
who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published
in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
02–130
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Officer Cadet and Lady Officer Cadet Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Officer
Cadets and Lady Officer Cadets in the following branches :–
(a) General Duties Pilot Branch (Male) ;
(b) Technical Engineering Branch (Male) ;
(c) Electronics Engineering Branch (Male) ;
(d) Logistics Branch (Male) ;
(e) Administrative Branch (Male) ;
(f) Administrative Regiment Branch (Male/Female) ;
(g) Operations Air Branch (Male).
2. Applications are invited from male/female candidates possessing
the qualifications given below :
BSc (Aviation Studies) Degree Entrant Qualifications
(Accredited by the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence University)
General Duties Pilot/Operations Air Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the G . C. E. O/L examination
with four credits including credit passes in English
language, Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in
Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting and ordinary passes
in three subjects at the G . C. E. A/L examination in Physical/
Bio Science Streams (as applicable) in one sitting.
Technical Engineering/Electronic Engineering
Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the G . C. E. O/L examination
with four credits including credit passes in English
Language, Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in
Sinhala/Tamil language in one sitting and ordinary passes
in three subjects at the G. C. E. A/L examination in Physical
Science Stream in one sitting.
Logistics/Administrative/Administrative Regiment
Branches :
A minimum of six passes at the G . C. E. O/L examination
with four credits including credit passes in English language,
Mathematics, Science and an ordinary pass in Sinhala/
Tamil language in one sitting and ordinary passes in three
subjects at the G . C. E. A/L examination in Physical/Bio
Science/Commerce Streams in one sitting. Students of the
Arts Stream with a minimum of three ordinary passes at
the G . C. E. A/L examination are also eligible to apply for
the Administrative Regiment Branch.
3. Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force.
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Age : Not less than 18 years and not mroe
than 22 years as at 30th April, 2015
(c) Height : Male - 5' 6" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
(d) Weight : Male - 17 < BMI < 26
Female - 17 < MBI < 25
Weight (Kg)
BMI = –––––––––
Height
2 (m)
(e) Chest : Male - 32" (Minimum)
(f) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(g) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without
spectacles)
(h) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. No
cadet will be permitted to marry whilst
under training and for a further period
of one (1) year from the date of
Commissioning.
4. Due considerations will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
132
5. Applications of candidates who do not fulfill the requirement
of para 2 and 3 will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the
height, vision and weight will be measured. Candidates whose height,
vision and weight are below the standard specified in the Gazette
notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
Any candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service
may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided
he/she possesses the requisite academic and professional
qualifications.
6. Conditions of service :
(a) The candidate is to initially enlist in the Air Force as a
cadet on a regular engagement in the same manner as for
other ranks and will undergo a Basic Combat Training
Course. On successful completion of training, the duration
of which will depend on the branch, the status allocated
on his/her enlistment as an Other Rank will lapse and will
receive a permanent commission in the rank fo Pilot Officer.
(b) Cadets will be requried to undergo training at a place in Sri
Lanka or abroad as decided by the Commander of the Air
Force in consultation with the Ministry of Defence.
(c) During the period of training as cadets and thereafter,
personnel will be subject to Air Force Law.
(d) Every cadet will be provided all items of uniforms,
equipment and medical facilities.
(e) During the period of training, a cadet will be accommodated
in an Air Force Mess and will be provided with food.
(f) In the event of a cadet voluntarily terminating his/her
candidature for a commission during training, the parent
or guardian will be required to refund to the Republic of
Sri Lanka all expenses incurred up to that time by the
Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such cadet.
(g) If at any time during his/her course a cadet is reported by
the authorities as being unsuitable for reasons of
misconduct or due to causes within his/her control to
quality for a commission, his/her parent or guardian will
be required to refund to the Sri Lanka Air Force all expenses
incurred on his/her training and will be required to enter
into a bond to this effect with the Commander of the Air
Force acting on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.
(h) Parent or guardian will sign a declaration as given in cage
27 of the application form in respect of sub-paragraphs
(f) and (g) above and forward them together with the
application. Parent or guardian will be required to enter in
to a bond subsequently in this form with the Republic of
Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these candidates as
Cadets.
(j) Candidates who possess the requirement as per para 2
and 3 will be called for the preliminary interview and if
successful will be called for the officer quality tests.
Candidates who pass the officer quality tests will be
called for Medical Examinations (All candidates selected
will be medically examined under Sri Lanka Air Force
arrangements) and if applicable flying aptitude tests.
Candidates who successfully complete these tests will be
called for the final interview. The required number of
candidates per branch will be selected according to merit
at these interviews and tests.
(k) A single officer is required to live in the officers mess.
He/she is provided with furnished accommodation and
food. Batman service will be provided. A single officer's
ration allowance and batman allowance are paid to the
Mess.
(l) A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter
if available. Recovery of rental will be as applicable to
public servants.
(m) All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in
any part of the world at any time.
(n) All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and roders
issued from time to time.
7. Official Language Requirements.-  The selected candidates
will be required to comply with any rules already made or may
hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the
Republic of Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the
provisions in the Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Consolidated pay rate : The scale of consolidated pay
applicable to officer cadets and Commissioned Ranks
shall be as follows :–
Officer Cadet - Rs. 187,620 p. a.
Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 =
Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Other Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 7,800 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
3. Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
133
4. Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
5. Special enhanced allowance Rs. 3,000 per month
(Rs. 100 will be paid for each working day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 939.10 per month (if permitted
to live out).
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Sepcial allowance 20% of consolidated salary.
12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
13. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
15. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
16. Married officers permitted to live-out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
17. Flying pay for those in the general duties pilot branch.
18. Rent Allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
19. Budget interim allowances Rs. 3,000 per month.
9. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
10. Instructions to applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant's own hand
writing in terms of the form specified below. All cages of
the application should be completed neatly with as much
details as possible. Applications should be forwarded
under registered cover to : "Command Recruiting Officer,
Sri Lanka Air Force Trade Training School, Ekala,
Kotugoda" so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on
18th February 2015. The envelope enclosing the
application shold be marked "Application for Cadetship/
Lady Cadetship in the .................. Branch". A candidate
will be allowed to apply for only one branch, those who
apply for more than one branch the applications will be
rejected. Applications received after the closing date and
not in accordance with the requirements of this notification
and not in registered post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of
the following documents when summoned for interviews
or when called upon to do so :
1. Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate
issued for the purpose of the education code will
not be accepted) ;
2. Certificates in support of the educational
qualifications required for the branch applied for ;
3. Certificates of trade/technical training and/or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution ;
4. Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the principal of the last school
attended and the other from a responsible person
who has the know of the applicant for more than
two years or from the present employer (if
employed).
5. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents
when requested to do so will not be considered.
(e) No documents or original copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any
originals of certificates if enclosed with the application
form.
11. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after selection.
12. Selection interviews etc. :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions. Candidates
so selected will be required to undergo tests as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview of those
selected candidates by a selection board appointed by
the Ministry of Defence.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
134
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews. No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable for their final interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
K. A. G
UNA TILLEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION FOR OFFICER CADET/LADY OFFICER
CADET IN THE ........................... BRANCH OF THE
SRI LANKA AIR FORCE
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
5. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
6. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
(Age as at 30th April 2015) :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :–––––––––,  Days :–––––––––.
7. Height :–––––'––––––".
8. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
9. District :–––––––––––.
10. Electorate :–––––––––––.
11. Grama Seva Division :–––––––––––.
12. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
13. Married or Single :–––––––––––.
14. Gender :–––––––––––.
15. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Other
16. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
17. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
18. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
19. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
20. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside Organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
21. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
22. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
23. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
135
24. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
25. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
26. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that answers given to the above
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be
adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates
who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published
in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
27. Declaration to be signed by the parent or guardian of the
applicant :
(a) I am the parent/guardian of ........................... who is an
applicant for a cadetship in the Sri Lanka Air Force and
who has signed the declaration in cage 26 of the form of
application above.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible in the event above
named applicant being selected for a course of training for
the following.
(1) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant voulntarily terminating his/
her candidature for a Commission during his/her period
of training all expenses incurred upto that time by the
Republic of Sri Lanka on account of such applicant.
(2) To refund to the Republic of Sri Lanka in the event of
the above named applicant reported on by the
authorities as being unsuitable (for reasons of
misconduct or due to causes within his/her own control)
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE  AIRMEN/
AIRWOMEN  VACANCIES  AND  SRI  LANKA
VOLUNTEER  AIR  FORCE  AIRMEN  VACANCIES
VACANCIES exist in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force
for Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given below :
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
1. Aeronautical Engineering Trades (Male/Female) :
(a) Air Frame Mechanic,
(b) Aero Engine Mechanic,
(c) Aero Electrical and Instrument Mechanic,
(d) Safety Equipment.
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil
and English Languages. Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for
Mathematics/Science is essential.
2. General Engineering Trades (Male) :
(a) Motor Transport Mechanic
(b) Armament Mechanic
(c) General Mechanic
for the issue of a Commission all the expenses incurred
on his/her account by the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Parent/Guardian.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of First Witness.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Second Witness.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
(in block capitals)
Address :–––––––––––.
02–131
–––––––––––––––––

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
136
(d) Air Craft Welder Assistant
(e) Surface Assistant
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil
and English Languages. Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for
Mathematics/Science will be an added qualification.
(a) Operator Motor Transport
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Languages. (possession of a valid light vehicle driving license is
essential and priority will be given to possession of a valid heavy
vehicle driving license is respectively.) The practical test should
pass all the candidates who were passing the preliminary interviews.
3. Medical Trades (Male) :
(a) Nursing Assistant
(b) Dental Assistant
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including ordinary passes in English Language
and credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics, Science
and one other subject. Having three passes at the G. C. E. (A/L)
Examination from Science/Maths/Agricultural Science Stream in
one sitting will be added advantage for selection and a qualification
for advance training under Ministry of Health Services.
4. Logistics Trades :
(a) Ground Steward (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language. Priority will be given to candidates those who an ordinary
pass in English language or fluency in English language with strong
communication skill.
(b) Catering Assistant (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language.
5. Administrative Trades :
(a) Administrative Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil and English Languages and a credit in Mathematics/Science/
Business and Account Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft
Office package) will be an added qualification.
(c) Accounts Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/
Tamil and English Languages and a credit in Mathematics/Business
and Account Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office
package) will be an added qualification.
6. Operations :
(a) Operations Air (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language and a credit in English Language.
(b) Operations Ground (Male/Female)
(c) Dog Handler (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings  including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
Language.
(d) Fire Fighter (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil
and English languages.
7. Physical Training Instructor (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language. Oustanding competencies in National Level sports will
be special qualification at selection. The practical test should pass
all the candidates who were passing the preliminary interviews.
8. Police Trade :
(a) Police (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil
and English Languages. Priority will be given to candidates those
who measured 5'8"or above in height.
Vacancies exist in the V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force
for Airmen in the trades are given below :
2. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications required :
(1) General Engineering Trades (Male)
(a) Operator Motor Transport
Sat for the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination. (Possession of
a valid light vehicle driving license is essential and
priority will be given to possession of a valid heavy
vehicle driving license is respectively.) The practical
test should pass all the candidates who were passing
the preliminary interviews.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
137
3. Other Requirements. – Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular/V olunteer
Air Force :–
Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
Marital State : Regular Airmen/Airwomen (unmarried)
V olunteer Airmen (married/unmarried)
Age(as at 30th April 2015)
: Not less than 18 years and not more
than 23 years (Regular Male),
Not less than 18 years and not more
than 30 years (V olunteer Male)
Not less than 18 years and not more
than 22 years (Regular Female)
Height : 5 feet 5 inches and above (Regular
Male) ;
5 feet 4 inches and above (V olunteer
Male)
5 feet 3 inches and above (Regular
Female)
Weight : 17< BMI < 26 (Male)
17<BMI <25 (Female)
BMI  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2
Vision Colour : CP 2
Standard
Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
Civil Status :
(a) Regular Airmen/Airwomen : Candidates must be
unmarried. (Airmen/Airwomen is not allowed to
marry until the completion of two years from the
date of enlistment and until one year after the
completion of the Basic Trade Training Course and
which ever is later).
(b) V olunteer Airmen : Unmarried candidates is allowed
to marry until the completion of one year from the
date of enlistment and after the completion of the
Basic Training Course.
4. Candidates who do not possess the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 "a" and
paragraph 02 "a" or paragraph 03 will be rejected. On arrival for the
first interview the height, weight and vision will be measured.
Candidates whose height, weight and vision is below the standard
specified in the Gazette Notification and who have not exceptional
skills will not be interviewed. Any candidate who may have a
special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the
Commander of the Air Force be considered even though he/she may
not have the requisite height provided he/she possess the requisite
academic and professional qualifications.
5. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
6. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force
Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with
effect from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected Regular Airmen/Airwomen candidates will be
trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly.
They will be required to perform combat duties and any
type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult
conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
(c) Selected V olunteer Airmen candidates will be trained in
combat accordingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even
under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka
or abroad.
7. Terms of Engagement :–
(a) Regular Airmen and Airwomen
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of
the rank of Aircraftsman/Aircraftwomen in the Regular
Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in
which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst
serving a further 04 years in the Regular Air Force
(Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for
suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend for further service
on completion of eight years of service on the discretion
of the Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
(b) V olunteer Airmen
Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of
the rank of in the V olunteer Air Force and shall be required
to serve for 05 years. Opportunities exist for suitable
Airmen to extend for further service on completion of
five years of service on the discretion of the Commander
of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
8. Official Language Requirements.–  The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
9. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen
shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - R. 173,100 - 6 x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320 - 4x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Corporal - Rs. 183,540 -10x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880
- Rs. 229,860 Per annum
Sergeant - Rs. 187,620 - 3 x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880 -
3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
138
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700 - 1x Rs. 2,040 - 9x
Rs. 2,880 - 3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500 - 7x Rs. 2,880 - 14x
Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 273,420 per annum
Master Warrant Officer - Rs. 223,500 - 13x Rs. 3,840
- Rs. 273,420 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to airmen/airwomen increments in promotions
will be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct
and trade efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances of Rs. 7,800 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 3,900 per month for
those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance - I- Rs. 2,400 per month (Rs. 80 will
be paid per day).
(5) Special allowance - II - 15% of consolidated salary and
Rs. 750.
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 13,197 per month for living out
Airmen (free messing for living-in Airmen).
(8) Uniform upkeep allowance - Rs. 170 per month.
(9) Interim allowance - Rs. 1,000 per month.
(10) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(11) Travelling - Three sets of holiday railway warrants per
year (for Airmen/Airwomen/Wife/Husband and
Children as applicable). One set of railway warrants
per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in
Airmen).
(12) Disturbance allowance - When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(13) Qualification pay - For personnel who have qualified
in special courses or possess qualifications, which are
of special value to the service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month).
(14) Good conduct badge pay - Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 511.50 per month).
(15) Re-engagement pay - Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300
per month during the period of re-engagement.
(16) Medical facilities - Provided through Air Force expense
for Airmen/Airwomen and their married families.
(17) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T.
B. buses for living out Airmen/Airwomen within a
radius of 30 miles (48km).
(18) Following rent allowance are payable to married
Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government
married quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(19) Instructional pay - (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(20) Other allowance - (separation and overseas etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(21) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended
from time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the
Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows' and
Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970).
10. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) All cages if the application should be filled with much
details as possible.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released
if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when interviews or called upon to
do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificates in support of the educational
qualifications required.
(3) Certificates of Trade/Technical training and/or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution will be an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the Principal of the last school
attended and the other from a responsible person
who has the know of the applicant for more than two
years or from the present employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and
cadeting etc.
(d) Application of candidates who fail to produce document
when required to do so will not be considered.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
139
11. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board.
12. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala from
0900 hrs to 1300 hrs on 12, 13, 16, 18, 19 and 20 February 2015 for
regular male candidates, on 19 and 20 February 2015 for V olunteer
male candidates and 23rd and 24th February 2015 for regular female.
13. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
with out the National Identity Card.
14. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to high marks merit at these interviews.
15. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqulaification
of such candidates.
16. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
17. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
K. A. G
UNATILLEKE,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE
SRI  LANKA  AIR FORCE
1. Full Name :––––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
2. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
3. Applied Trade :–––––––––––––.
4. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
5. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
6. Nearest Air Force Station :–––––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. District :–––––––––––.
9. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
10. G .S. Division :–––––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
12. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
13. Age (as at 30th April 2015) :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
14. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
15. Gender :–––––––––––––.
16. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.
17. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––––.
(Eg.– Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
20. Details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :–––––––––––.
22. If previously applied for the Armed Forces of Police give
details :–––––––––––.
23. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :–––––––––––.
24. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airmen/Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Air Force pubilshed
in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
02–132

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
140
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Recruitment to the Post of Assistant Secretary (Legal), Grade III in the Executive Service
Category of the Ministry of Justice - 2015
BY the order of the Public Service Commission, applications are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka with the under mentioned quailfications
in order to recruit suitable persons for the two (02) vacancies in the post of Assistant Secretary (Legal), Grade III in the Executive Service
Category of the Ministry of Justice. Applications forms prepared as per the specimen appended at the end of this notice should be sent by
registered post to reach the "Secretary, Ministry of Justice, Superior Courts Complex, Colombo 12" on or before the closing dat e of
application mentioned below. The words "Recruitment to the Post of Assistant Secretary (Legal), Grade III in the Executive Serv ice
Category" should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the application form.
Closing date of application will be 06.03.2015.
Note.– No allegation that an application form or a document respecting such form has been lost or delayed in the post can be
considered. Candidates who delay their applications until the last day will do so at their own risk.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Recruitments will be made on the order of merit at the structured interview to be conducted by an
interview board to be appointed by the Pubilc Service Commission. Number of recruitments and the date on which such recruitments will
take effect will be decided in accordance with the order of the Pubilc Service Commission.
02. Terms of engagement :
(i) This post is permanent. It is pensionable. The selected candidates are liable to contribute to the Widows' and Orphans'
Pension Scheme/Widowers' and Orphans' Orphans' Orphans' Pension Scheme.
(ii) Selected candidate will be on probation for a period of three (03) years and should pass the First Efficiency Bar
Examination within such prescribed period of three (03) years.
(iii) As per the Public Administration Circular No. 1/2014, in order to give effect to the official language policy, a holder of an
appointment will be required to acquire within five (05) years a working knowledge of the official language other than the
official language in which he enters the pubilc service. A holder of an appointment who enters the public service in a
medium of language other than in a medium of any of the official languages will be required to reach within three (03) years
a requisite standard of proficiency in one official language and within five (05) years in the other official language. The
standard of proficiency in the second official language under Segment I should  be acquired.
(iv) This appointment will be subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code,
Financial Regulations, Departmental Orders and any other regulations and orders issued from time to time by the
Government.
03. Salary Scale.– In terms of the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006, this post which is under SL-1-2006, carries a salary
of Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 per month.
04. Qualifications :
(i) Educational and Professional Qualifications.– Should have possessed a LLB Degree from a university recognized by
the University Grants Commission or be an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court.
(ii) Experience.– Should have acquired a dynamic professional practice of not less than three (03) years upon the
enrolment as an Attorney-at-Law of the Supreme Court.
05. Age Limit.– Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date of applications. (The
maximum age limit does not apply to officers already in the Public Service.)
06. Physical Fitness.– Every candidate should be in good mental and physical order to serve in any part of the island and to
discharge the duties and functions of the post.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
141
07. Other Qualifications.– Every candidate must furnish satisfactory proof to the effect that he/she :
(i) Is a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Has a good command of English,
(iii) Is of excellent moral character,
(iv) Has fulfilled the necessary qualifications in every respect referred to in this notice of calling for applications, as at the
closing date of applications.
08. Structured Interview.– Marks will be given by an interview board to be appointed by the Public Service Commission.
09. Marking Scheme at the Structured Interview :
Spheres in respect of which marks are given Maximum Maximum
marks that marks that
could be given could be earned
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :
(i) LLB Degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission
– First Class Pass 20 marks
– Second Class (Upper Division) Pass 15 marks
– Second Class (Lower Division) Pass 10 marks
(ii) First Class Pass at the Final Examination, Sri Lanka Law College 15 marks 20 marks
(iii) Second Class Pass at the Final Examination, Sri Lanka Law College 10 marks
(Marks are awarded only to the highest standard secured either at the LLB or at the
Final Examination, Sri Lanka Law College)
02. Additional professional Qualifications :
(i) LLM obtained from a university recognized by the University Grant Commission or 15 marks 15 marks
from Sri Lanka Law College
(ii) Post Graudate Diploma in Law (Not less than one year) 08 marks
(iii) Diploma Course in Law (Not less than six months) 05 marks
03. Experience :
Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in the public or private sector
(Marks are awarded for the experience excluding the minimum requriement of three 05 marks
years of experience as an Attorney-at-Law as is referred to in the notice of calling for per year 30 marks
applications)
(05 marks are awarded per year and maximum marks could be awarded are 30)
Note.– Professional practice as an Attorney-at-Law must be proved by a certificate
to be obtained from a Judicial Officer or a President's Counsel or an Attorney-at-Law
whose professional practice should be not less than 20 years.
04. Computer Literacy :
(i) A degree obtained from a recognized institution approved by the University Grants 15 marks
Commission with Information Technology as a principal subject
(ii) A Diploma in Information Technology (Not less than six months) obtained from a 10 marks 15 marks
recognized institution approved by the Government
(iii) A certificate course in Information Technology (Not less than three months) obtained 05 marks
from a recognized institution approved by the Government

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
142
05. Proficiency in English Language :
(i) LL M, LL B, Post Graduate Degree, Post Graduate Diploma, Diploma Course in Law 15 marks
should have been obtained in the English Medium. (All question papers should have
been answered in the English Langauge)
(ii) A Diploma in English Language (Not less than six months) obtained from a 10 marks 15 marks
university recognized by the University Grants Commission or from an institution
approved by the Government
(iii) A certificate course in English Language (Not less than three months) obtained from a 05 marks
university recognized by the University Grants Commission or from an institution
approved by the Government
Performance at the interview 05 marks 05 marks
Spheres in respect of which marks are given Maximum Maximum
marks that marks that
could be given could be earned
10. (i) Applications should be prepared on an A4 paper of
22x29cm in size using both sides. so that items from 01
to 14 appear on the first page and items 15 onwards on
the second page and it should be filled by the candidate's
own legible handwriting. Applications which are not in
conformity with the specimen appended at the end of
this notice or are received after the closing date of
acceptance of applications are liable to be rejected without
notice. Incomplete applications and applications of the
candidates who have not possessed prescribed minimum
requirements will also be rejected. Therefore, candidates
should ensure that their applications are as per the
specimen in every respect. Further, it is advisable if a
copy of the application is retained with the candidate.
Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged.
Note :( a) No documents or copies of documents should be
attached to the application form.
(b) Applications of candidates who fail to produce
documents when required to do so will not be
considered.
(ii) Applications from officers in the Public Service/Provincial
Public Service/State Corporations must be forwarded
through the Heads of the Departments/Establishments.
11. Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Circulars
that now exist or may be issued from time to time in the future and
Service Minutes relating to Grade III in the executive Service Category
of the Ministry of Justice and the amendments already made and to
be made thereto are applicable to this post.
By the order of the Public Service Commission,
W. K
AMALINI F. DE SIL V A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
21st January, 2015.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
APPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY (LEGAL), GRADE III IN
THE EXECUTIVE SERVICE CATEGORY OF THE MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
No. :........................
(For office use only)
01. ( a) Name with initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Name with initials (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
(b) Full name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
Full name (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address (in Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––––.
03. Permanent adderss (in English block capitals) :––––––––––––.
04. Telephone No. :––––––––––––.
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. Sex :––––––––––––.
07. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Date :––––––––––.
08. Age as at the closing date of applications :
Years :––––––––––,  Months :––––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
09. Nationality :––––––––––––.
10. Whether married or single :––––––––––––.
Particulars in respect of the LLB Degree :––––––––––––.
University :––––––––––––.
Date on which the degree was conferred :––––––––––––.
Medium :––––––––––––.
12. Date of enrolment as an Attorney-at-Law :––––––––––––.
13. Experience as an Attorney-at-Law number of years :–––––––.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
143
14. Qualification as per the item 09 of the notice of calling for
applications :
(i) ––––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––––.
(iii) ––––––––––––.
(iv) ––––––––––––.
(v) ––––––––––––.
(vi) ––––––––––––.
(vii) ––––––––––––.
(viii)––––––––––––.
15. Languages proficiency : (Mark 3in the relevant box) :
Very Good Good Ordinary Weak
Sinhala
Tamil
English
Candidate's Declaration
I, ........................... declare that the particulars furnished by me
in this application are true and correct. I certify that I have not been
subject to any form of disciplinary action including dismissal from
the service or retirement for general inefficiency as a merciful
alternative to dismissal and I have not vacated the post previously. I
am also aware that, if any particulars contained herein are found to
be false or incorrect, I am liable to disqualification, if detected before
selection and to dismissal without compensation, if detected after
appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date ––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department in case of the officers
are form the public service
I do hereby inform that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................... is
serving in this Ministry/Department as ........................... on
permanent/temporary/casual basis and that he/she can be/ cannot be
released, if selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the
Department and official seal.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
02–170
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  III  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  LIBRARIANS'
SERVICE - 2012(2015)
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Class III of the Sri
Lanka Librarians' Service will be held in Colombo in the month of
May 2015 as provided for in paragraphs 08 of the Sri Lanka Librarians'
Service Minute pubilshed in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,620/
22 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 24.09.2009.
Only the officers in Combined Service in the Public Service can
apply for the relevant Efficiency Bar examination as per this
notification.
Note.– Provisions for Provincial Librarians' Service shall be
issued by the relevant Provincial Public Service
Commissions and provisions  shall be issued by the relevant
institutions for other institutions concurrently to this
Gazette Notification.
In order to identify the applications of the officers in each
Provincial Public Service and other institutions,
conveniently cod number should be used. Accordingly, for
the officers in combined service code number is 10. This
number should be entered in the upper right side of the
application where you have to mention the service you
belong to.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates are bound by
the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of the Gazette Notification. Candidates will
be liable to any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for breach of these
rules.
03. The specimen form of application for this examination is
published at the end of this notice. Candidates should prepare their
own applications correctly and legibly in accordance with the
specimen form of application and send through the respective Heads
of Departments by registered post to reach the Commissioner General
of examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, P. O. box 1503, Colombo on
or before 09th March 2015. The name of the examination and the
relevant grade should be indicated at the top left-hand corner of the

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
144
envelope in which the application is enclosed. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected.
04. Identity of the candidates. – Candidates should prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall
for each subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be
accepted for this purpose :
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
of the Department Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid Passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any of
the above mentioned documents is liable to be cancelled on the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Applications.– Applications should be parepared using both
sides of a paper of A4 size in such a way that Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 apper
on the 1st page whilst the Nos. 6.0 to 9.0 appear on the 2nd page.
The application could be typewritten but it should be filled in
correctly and legibly by candidate's own handwriting. Applications
that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been
perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen in
English langauge as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen
given in the examination ntoice. Indicate "Efficiency Bar Examination
for officers in Class III of Sri Lanka Librarians' Service" - 2012(2015)
in top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
forwarded.
Candidates who apply for the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
candidates should pay Rs. 400 for the whole examination and
Rs. 200 for one subject. The cash receipt obtained from any Divisional/
District Secretariat by making the payment to be credited to revenue
head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations,
should be affixed in the due place of the application. The fee will not
be refunded under any cirumstance wnad will not be transferred in
respect of any other examination. It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the cash receipt with the candidate.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards along with copies of the time table to all candidates
who have paid the relevant fees, whose applications have been
filled properly and received on or before the closing date. Candidates
appearing for the examination should get their signatures on the
admission cards attested in advance and produce to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will
not be permitted to sit the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card
is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the notification. Name of the examination, full
name of the applicant, address and national identity card number
should be mentioned when making such inquiry. In case of applicants
outside Colombo, it would be advisable to send a letter of request
furnishing a fax number to which the admission card should be sent,
to the fax number mentioned in the notification and further to keep
the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations :  i. e.  copy of the application form and the receipt
kept at your possession if it is relevant to payment of examination
fee, receipt of registration.
Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that the candidate has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the
examination.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
08. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium of the entry examination to the relevant service or
in the official language. Candidates who entered the service without
a competitive Examination should answer both papers in the language
midium of their education or in the official language. It whould not
be allowed to change the language medium of examination indicated
in the application subsequently.
09. The officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions. However, for a pass, officers should obtain at
least 40% of the total marks for each subject.
10. Release of the Results of the Examination .– The
Commissioner- General of Examinations will issue the results to
the Director General of Combined Services. The list of names of
officers who have passed the Examination will be published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
11. Scheme of Examination .– Examination shall consist of 2
question papers.
01. Subject No. (01) - General Administration and Financial
Procedure (100 marks) :
* Part I - General Administration - Duration - 1 1/2
Hours (50 Marks).
(a) Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission
published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated
20.02.2009 and chapters V to VIII and XII,

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
145
XIV , XXIV , XXVII, XXVIII of the
Establishments Code are included.
(b) Sri Lanka Library Association (Incorporation)
Act, No. 20 of 1974 ; and
Sri Lanka Library Association (Amendment)
Act, No. 07 of 2004.
* Part II - Financial Procedure - Duration 1 1/2 Hours
- (50 marks).
(a) Financial Regulations - Part I (excluding
Chapter X)
Accounts work performed by librarians and
the relevant Regulations.
02. Subjects No. 02 - Library Organization - Duration
03 hours - (100 Marks).
(a) Provincial Library Ordinance,
(b) Library Committees,
(c) Preservation of Library Goods,
(d) Readers’ Education and Public Relations,
(e) Categories of Libraries and Services,
(f) Fundamentals and that should be considered in
Library Management,
(g) Extension services that can be implemented in a
library.
N. B.– Candidates should obtain 40% of marks for
each subject to pass this examination.
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
13. In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification shall prevail.
K. V . P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial
Councils, Local Government and
Democratic Governance.
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils,
Local Government and Democratic Governance,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
23rd of January, 2015.
(For Office use only)
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
GRADE III OF THE SRI LANKA GOVERNMENT
LIBRARIANS’ SERVICE - 2012 (2015)
Medium of Language in which you are appearing for the exam
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
The service to which you belong
(Please refer the para 1.0 of the Gazette Notification
carefully before filling this Section)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
1.3 Last Name with Initials :–––––––––.
(in Block Capitals, e.g. GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B.
S. K.)
2.0 Place of work and Address :
2.1 Name of the Ministry/Department/Office :–––––––––.
2.2 Office address :–––––––––.
(Admission cards will be sent by post to this address)
3.0 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant Number in the Cage)
4.0 Subject offering and respective Subjects Numbers :
Subject Subject No.
5.0 5.1 National Identity Card No. :
5.2 Date of Birth :
Date :           Month :         Year :
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :––––––––––.
6.2 Number of the Appointment Letter :––––––––––.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
146
7.0 7.1 Are you applying for the examination for the first time? :
–––––––––.
7.2 If not, give following particulars of the affixed cash receipt,
received from any District Secretariat at the time of paying
examination fees :
No :––––––––––. Amount :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––. Office issued :–––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(Keep to photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the medium indicated above,
and that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that,
(i) This candidate is employed in this department as an officer
in Grade III of the Librarians Service
(ii) The particulars furnished above are correct.
(iii) His/her work and conduct have been satisfactory
throughout: and he/she has not been subjected to any form
of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the
past 5 year period ; and
(iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
(v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the
receipt has been affixed. (Delete if inapplicable)
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and
Official Stamp.
Date :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
02–227
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  II  OF  THE  SRI  LANKA  LIBRARIANS'
SERVICE - 2012(2015)
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in Class II of the Sri
Lanka Librarians' Service will be held in Colombo in the month of
May 2015 as provided for in paragraphs 08 of the Sri Lanka Librarians'
Service Minute pubilshed in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1,620/22
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka dated 24.09.2009.
Only the officers in Combined Service in the Public Service can
apply for the relevant Efficiency Bar examination as per this
notification.
Note.– Provisions for Provincial Librarians' Service shall be
issued by the relevant Provincial Public Service
Commissions and provisions  shall be issued by the relevant
institutions for other institutions concurrently to this
Gazette Notification.
In order to identify the applications of the officers in each
Provincial Public Service and other institutions,
conveniently code number should be used. Accordingly,
for the officers in combined service code number is 10.
This number should be entered in the upper right side of
the application where you have to mention the service
you belong to.
02. (i) This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner
General of Examinations and the candidates are bound by
the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examination.
(ii) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed separately at
the beginning of the Gazette Notification. Candidates will
be liable to any punishment imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examinations for breach of these
rules.
03. The specimen form of application for this examination is
published at the end of this notice. Candidates should prepare their
own applications correctly and legibly in accordance with the
specimen form of application and send through the respective Heads
of Departments by registered post to reach the "Commissioner
General of examinations, Organization and Foreign Examination
Branch, Department of Examinations Sri Lanka, P. O. box 1503,
Colombo" on or before 09th of March 2015. The name of the
examination and the relevant grade should be indicated at the top
left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
04. Identity of the candidates. – Candidates should prove their
identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor of the examination hall
for each subject they offer. Any of the following documents will be
accepted for this purpose :
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
of the Department Registration of Persons,
(b) A valid Passport.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
147
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit any of
the above mentioned documents is liable to be cancelled on the
discretion of the Commissioner General of Examinations.
05. Applications.– Applications should be prepared using both
sides of a paper of A4 size in such a way that Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 apper
on the 1st page whilst the Nos. 6.0 to 9.0 appear on the 2nd page.
The application could be typewritten but it should be filled in
correctly and legibly by candidate's own handwriting. Applications
that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been
perfected properly will be rejected without notice. It would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the specimen in
English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil application forms.
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the
application form perfected by him/herself complies with the specimen
given in the examination notice. Indicate "Efficiency Bar Examination
for officers in Class II of Sri Lanka Librarians' Service" - 2012(2015)
in top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
forwarded.
Candidates who apply for the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
candidates should pay Rs. 400 for the whole examination and
Rs. 200 for one subject. The cash receipt obtained from any /District
Divisional Secretariat by making the payment to be credited to revenue
head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations,
should be affixed in the due place of the application. The fee will not
be refunded under any circumstance and will not be transferred in
respect of any other examination. It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the cash receipt with the candidate.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards along with copies of the time table to all candidates
who have paid the relevant fees, whose applications have been
filled properly and received on or before the closing date. Candidates
appearing for the examination should get their signatures on the
admission cards attested in advance and produce to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will
not be permitted to sit the examination.
A notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the admission card
is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement, steps
should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the notification. Name of the examination, full
name of the applicant, address and national identity card number
should be mentioned when making such inquiry. In case of
applicants outside Colombo, it would be advisable to send a letter
of request furnishing a fax number to which the admission card
should be sent, to the fax number mentioned in the notification and
further to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations :  i. e.  copy of the application form
and the receipt kept at your possession if it is relevant to payment
of examination fee, receipt of registration.
Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily
mean that the candidate has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the
examination.
07. The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
08. This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media and candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium of the entry examination to the relevant service or
in the official language. Candidates who entered the service without
a competitive Examination should answer both papers in the language
midium of their education or in the official language. It whould not
be allowed to change the language medium of examination indicated
in the application subsequently.
09. The officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions. However, for a pass, officers should obtain at
least 40% of the total marks for each subject.
10. Release of the Results of the Examination .– The
Commissioner- General of Examinations will issue the results to
the Director General of Combined Services. The list of names of
officers who have passed the Examination will be published in the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
11. Scheme of Examination .– Examination consists of the 2
questions papers.
01. Subject No. 03 - General Administration and Financial
Procedure - (100 marks) :
* Part I - General Administration - Duration - 1 1/2
Hours (50 Marks).
(a) Basic knowledge on the Constitution of Sri
Lanka.
(b) Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission
published in the Gazette Extraordinary dated
20.02.2009 and chapters V to VIII and XII,
XIV , XXIV , XXVII, XXVIII of the
Establishments Code are included.
(c) State Archives Act, No. 48 of 1973 and National
Archives (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1981.
(d) Part III of Science and Information Technology
Development Act, No. 11 of 1994.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
148
(e) National Library and Documentation Services
Board Act, No. 51 of 1998.
(f) Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003.
* Part II - Financial Procedure - Duration 1 1/2 Hours
- (50 marks).
(h) Financial Regulations - Part I
Accounts work performed by librarians and
the relevant Regulations.
02. Subjects No. 04 - Library Organization - Duration
03 hours - (100 Marks).
(a) Library building and equipment,
(b) Benefits of government publications and the
method of using them,
(c) Regional and international organizations in the
library field,
(d) Strategies in library management,
(e) Financial management,
(f) Time management,
(g) Human resource management,
(h) Information Technology in Sri Lanka,
(i) Networks and computerized systems of
libraries.
N. B.– Candidates should obtain 40% of marks for
each subject to pass this examination.
12. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification.
13. In case of any inconsistency among Sinhala, Tamil and English
texts of this notification, the Sinhala notification shall prevail.
K. V. P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial
Councils, Local Government and
Democratic Governance.
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils,
Local Government and Democratic Governance,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
23rd of January, 2015.
(For Office use only)
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
GRADE II OF THE SRI LANKA GOVERNMENT
LIBRARIANS’  SERVICE - 2012 (2015)
Medium of Language in which you are appearing for the exam :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(indicate the relevant number in the cage)
The service to which you belong
(Please refer the para 1.0 of the Gazette Notification
carefully before filling this Section)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.2 Names denoted by initials (In Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––.
1.3 Last Name with Initials :–––––––––.
(in Block Capitals, e.g. GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B.
S. K.)
2.0 Place of work and Address :
2.1 Name of the Ministry/Department/Office :–––––––––.
2.2 Office address :–––––––––.
(Admission cards will be sent by post to this address)
3.0 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant Number in the Cage)
4.0 Subject offering and respective Subjects Numbers :
Subject Subject No.
5.0 5.1 National Identity Card No. :
5.2 Date of Birth :
Date :           Month :         Year :
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :––––––––––.
6.2 Number of the Appointment Letter :––––––––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
149
7.0 7.1 Are you applying of the examination for the first time? :
–––––––––.
7.2 If not, give following particulars of the affixed cash receipt,
received from any Divisonal/District Secretariat at the time
of paying examination fees :
No :––––––––––. Amount :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––. Office issued :–––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
(Keep to photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am
eligible to appear for the examination in the medium indicated above,
and that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination.
––––––––––,
Signature of Candidate.
Date :––––––––––.
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that,
(i) This candidate is employed in this department as an officer
in Grade II of the Librarians Service
(ii) The particulars furnished above are correct.
(iii) His/her work and conduct have been satisfactory
throughout: and he/she has not been subjected to any form
of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning) during the
past 5 year period ; and
(iv) He/she is eligible to sit for this examination.
(v) He/she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the
receipt has been affixed. (Delete if inapplicable)
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and
Official Stamp.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
02–228
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
GRADE  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2011(II) (2015)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for officers
in Class III of the Public Management Assistants' Service will be
held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations, as per the
relevant provisions of the approved Service Minutes, in the month
of May, 2015.
2.0  Information on the eligibility of the candidates are furnished
in provisions of Para 8, 15 interim provisions and Annex 04 of the
approved service minute of Public Management Assistants' Service
pubilshed in the Government Extraordinary Gazette of the
Democratic Socialists Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,840/34
dated 11.12.2013.
3.0 Officers who have not completed the efficiency bar
prescribed for officers in Grade III in the service minute implemented
before the new service minute is enforced, but either passed or been
exempted from one or several subjects of the examination i. e. (i)
Office Systems (2) Accounting Systems and (3) Computer Test
shall be exempted from the subjects of the Efficiency Bar
Examination on the basis of subject by subject prescribed by this
service minute for the officers in Grade III. Should pass the Efficiency
Bar Examination relevant to Grade III within three years from the
date of appointment.
4.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The relevant towns and town numbers are given below. It will not
be allowed to change the town applied for subsequently.
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
A center without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled
and the relevant candidates will be directed to the next nearest
centre available.

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
150
5.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of these rules and regulations.
6.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
Commissioner - General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
P. O. 1503,
Colombo.
On or before 09th of March, 2015. The name of the examination
should be indicated in the top left hand corner of the envelope of
the application. Applications received after the closing date will be
rejected.
The post and service station of the candidate, at the time he/she
applies for the examination will be applicable for all matters relating
to examination and any changes which occur in the past and service
station after sending the application will not be considered.
Note.– Provisions for Provincial Management Assistants'
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial Public
Service Commissions and provisions shall be issued by
the relevant institutions for other institutions
concurrently to this Gazette Notification. In order to
identify the applications of the officers in each Provincial
Public Service and other institutions, conveniently code
number should be used. Accordingly, for the officers in
combined service code number is 10. This number should
be entered int he upper right side of the application where
you have to mention the service you belong to.
7.0 Identity of the Candidates .– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents might be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
8.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 3.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised as not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/her self complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st time
need not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings
Rs. 400 for the whole examination or for more than one subject and
Rs. 200 for only one subject should be paid at any post-ofice/sub
post office island-wide to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13
of the Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained
thus should be affixed to the relevant cage of the applications form.
It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
It will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination in
favour of another.
9.0  The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all candidates whose applications have been
received on or before the application closing date. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates by the Department of Examinations. If the
admission card is not received even after 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Organizations
and Foreign Examinations Branch of Department of Examinations
in the manner specified in the advertisement. When informing, the
name of the examination applied for, full name, address and the
NIC number of the candidate shall be indicated. It would be advisable
for candidates outside Colombo to fax a letter of request along with
a fax number of the candidate to the department of Examinations
through the fax number mentioning the notification for sending a
copy of the admission. Further, it would be advisable to keep a
copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to payment of
examination fee and the receipt of registration of the application to
prove any information requested by the Department of
Examinations.
10.0  Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the qualifications
to sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will
not be permitted to sit for the examination. The Heads of
Departments should approve duty leave for officers to whom
admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner-General of
Examinations to enable them to appear for the examination. No
travelling expenses will be paid.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
151
11.0  This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. The officers may sit for this examination either in the language
medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the service
or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered the
service without a competitive examination may sit for the
examination in their medium of education or in one of the official
languages. The language medium of examination, mentioned originally
in the application cannot be changed subsequently.
12.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different
occasions at their discretion. However they should score at least
40% of the total marks for each subject, for a pass.
13.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will release the
results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and names of the successful candidates will be published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written
examination that will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Subject Marks Duration
No.
(i) Office systems 01 100 01 hr.
(ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 01 hr.
(iii) Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hrs.
14.1 Office Systems (Subject No. 01) :
This paper shall be designed to test the candidate's
basic knowledge on office systems adopted in
government offices and practical use of that knowledge,
proper understanding of official documents and the
ability of presenting the ideas/observations in clear and
brief minutes and the ability of drafting a letter according
to an order given to the officer. This paper will consist
of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short
answers. Answers should be provided on
the paper itself. Should answer all the
questions. (25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type.
Should answer 03 out of 04 questions.
(75 marks).
14.2 Accounting Systems (Subject No. 02) :
It is expected to test candidate's knowledge in Accounting
Systems adopted in government offices, functions of
books and records of controlling Accounts. Paper will
consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short
answers. Should provide answers on the paper
itself. Should answer all the questions.
(25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type.
Should answer 03 out of 04 questions.
(75 marks).
14.3 Test on Computer Skills (Subject No. 03) :
Objective of this test is to verify the candidate’s skills
on the following :–
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating System
Folder Management
Word Processing Basic skills, Screen
Familiarization, Editing text
Aligning Text, Fonts and
Attributes, Indenting
Paragraphs, sub paragraphs,
change of Line Spacing, Tab
settings, Finding and replacing
text, Spelling and Grammar,
Thesaurus, Working with
columns, Page setup
Printing documents, Creating
Tables, Sorting text,
File Management
Mail Merging
Working with macros
Spreadsheets Basic Skills
Formatting
Editing Columns and ranges,
Insertion and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating charts
Printing
@ Function
Working with Macros, Folder
Management
Internet and E-mail Introduction to Internet, basic
skills, receiving mail, sending
mail, responding to mails
Working with attachments,
creating and using nicknames
Composing messages
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I .– Consist of 40 questions of MCQ type that
require short answers - Duration 45 minutes
(40 marks) ;
Part II .– 05 semi structured questions - Duration 45
minutes. (60 marks).
Note.– As per the Annex 04 of the approved service minute
of Public Managment Assistants' Service published in
the Government Extraordinary Gazette of the Democratic
Socialists Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,840/34
3rd  Reading
T - 04 (KJ)
Part 3 (31 – 40)

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
152
dated 11.12.2013, the officers who have obtained
Computer Driving License awarded by National
Apprentice and Technical Training Authority/a degree in
Computer Science recognized by the University Grants
Commission/Proficiency Level at NVQ 4 or above from
an institution approved by the Tertiary Education and
V ocational Education Commission shall be exempted from
the above computer test.
15.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
16.0 In the  event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala,
Tamil and English text of this examination notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
K. V. P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial
Councils, Local Government and
Democratic Governance.
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils,
Local Gvernment and Democratic Governance,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
22nd of January, 2015.
Specimen Form of Application
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN
GRADE III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS’
SERVICE -  2011(II) (2015)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the town in which you intend to sit the examination
according to your preference as per Gazette Notification)
(This cannot be altered subsequently).
The service to which you belong (Please refer the
note of para 6.0 of the Gazette Notification
carefully before filling this section)
Language Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage).
(This cannot be changed subsequently).
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
Eg: GUNAW ARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.0 2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals).
2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
 3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.).
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :                Date :
3.3 N. I. C. No.  :
4.0 Subject/s you are offering now (Refer Para. No. 14.0 of the
Gazette Notification) :
Serial No. Subject Subject No:
01
02
03
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Appointment letter number :–––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?
:–––––––––––.
6.2 If not, examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
6.3 Post-office/Sub Post Office :–––––––––––.
6.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
6.5 Date :–––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt of examination fees paid of
Rs. 400 for whole examination and Rs. 200 for only
one subject. It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt.
I, declare that the information furnished above is correct and I
am eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
153
mentioned above. The receipt affixed is to the value of Rs. .............
I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this examination
imposed by the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of his/her respective Head of Department or an officer
assigned to sign on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................. who is an
employee of my work station and who is personally known to me
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................... and further
stamps to the value of examination fee have been affixed.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the person attesting.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination
previously ;
(iii) The officer has appeared for the examination previously
and *he/she has affixed the receipt of the fees for the
relevent examination ;
(iv) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
02–226
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Departmental Technical
Posts (MN-03-2006(A)) - 2015 of the Ministry of Health - 2015
APPLICATIONS are invited from the applicants who possess the following qualifications, to recruitunder the open stream to the
Departmental Technical posts in the Hospitals and institutes of the Ministry of Health.
Description of Posts :
Index No. Post
01. Technical Of ficer (Civil) Grade III
02. Technical Of ficer (Electrical) Grade III
03. Photographer (Technical) Grade III
04. Machine Administrator Grade III
05. Electrical Lift T echnician Grade III
(Note.– If you apply for several posts applications should be forwarded separately for each post and one envelope should contain
one application for one post).
02. Candidates who have fulfilled the qualifications will be selected on the merit basis according to the results of a written
examination and conducted by the Secretary to the Ministry of Health to be appointed to fill the vacancies in the Ministry of H ealth and
affiliated Hospitals and Institutes.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
154
03. Educational and Vocational Qualifications :
Index Post Educational Qualification Vocational Qualifications
No.
01. Technical Officer (Civil) ( a) Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) (i) National T echnical Diploma (Electrical)
Grade III Examination in six subjects with offered by University of Moratuwa or
credit passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English Ampara Hardy Institute ;
language, Mathematics and two or
other subjects in one sitting (ii) National Diploma in Engineering (Civil)
and offered by National Apprentice and
(b) Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Industrial Training Authority ;
Examination in all subjects (except the or
General Common Test) on one sitting (iii) Technical Diploma in (Electrical) by
Open University ;
(Under the old syllabus, should have or
passed in three subjects in one (iv) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
sitting) (Electrical) offered by Ministry of
Education and Higher Education ;
or
(v) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
(Electrical) offered by Sri Lanka Institute
of Engineering ;
or
(vi) Should have completed NVQ level 5 or
6 relevant to the field of employment
concerned.
02. Technical Officer ( a) Should have passed G. C. E. (O/L) (i) National T echnical Diploma (Electrical)
(Electrical) Grade III Examination in six subjects with credit offered by University of Moratuwa or
passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English Ampara Hardy Institute ;
language, Mathematics and two other or
subjects in one sitting ; (ii) National Diploma in Engineering
and (Electrical) offered by National
(b) Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) Apprentice and Industrial Training
Examination in all subjects (except Authority ;
the General Common Test) on one or
sitting (iii) Technical Diploma in (Electrical) by
Open University ;
(Under the old syllabus, should have or
passed in three subjects in one sitting) (iv) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
(Electrical) offered by Ministry of
Education and Higher Education ;
or
(v) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
(Electrcial) offered by Sri Lanka Institute
of Engineering ;
or
(vi) Should have completed NVQ level 5 or
6 relevant to the field of employment
concerned.
03. Photographer (Technical) ( a) Should have passed G. C. E. (O /L) (i) Should have followed a Diploma Course
Grade III Examination in six subjects with credit of 02 years in photography in a
passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English Government or Government affiliated
langauge, Mathematics and two institute
other subjects in one sitting ;
and

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
155
Index Post Educational Qualification Vocational Qualifications
No.
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in all subjects (expect the
General Common Test) on one sitting
(Under the old syllabus, should have
passed in three subjects in one sitting)
04. Machine Administrator ( a) Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) (i) National T echnical Diploma (Electrical)
Examination in six subjects with credit offered by University of Moratuwa or
passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English langauge, Ampara Hardy Institute ;
Mathematics and two other subjects in or
one sitting ; (ii) National Diploma in Engineering
and (Electrical) offered by National
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (A/L) Apprentice and Industrial Training
Examination in all subjects (expect the Authority ;
General Common Test) on one sitting. or
(iii) Technical Diploma in (Electrical) by
(Under the old syllabus, should have Open University ;
passed in three subjects in one sitting) or
(iv) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
(Electrical) offered by Ministry of
Education and Higher Education ;
or
(v) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
(Electrical/Mechanical) offered by Sri
Lanka Institute of Engineering.
05. Electrical Lift ( a) Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) (i) National T echnical Diploma (Electrical)
Technician Grade III Examination in six subjects with credit offered by University of Moratuwa or
passes for Sinhala/Tamil/English Ampara Hardy Institute ;
language, Mathematics and two other or
subjects in one sitting (ii) National Diploma in Engineering
and (Electrical) offered by National
(b) Should have passed G . C. E. (A/L) Apprentice and Industrial Training
Examination in all subjects (except the Authority ;
General Common Test) on one or
sitting (iii) Technical Diploma in (Electrical) by
Open University ;
(Under the old syllabus, should have or
passed in three subjects in one sitting) (iv) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
(Electrical) offered by Ministry of
Education and Higher Education ;
or
(v) National Higher Diploma in Engineering
(Electrical) offered by Sri Lanka Institute
of Engineering.
04. Physical Fitness .– Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and discharge
duties of the post.
05. Other Qualification :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should be of excellent character.
(iii) Should have obtained the above qualifications erquired to be recruited to the post in all respects by the date mentioned
in the notification of calling applications/Gazette.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
156
06. Age.– Not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years.
07. Written Examination for Recruitment :
(a) Written Examination :
Paper Syllabus Duration Total Marks Pass Marks
1. Technical Knowledge Knowledge equal to G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 1 1/2 hours 100 40%
level is required. Accordingly, a common paper
is prepared to for the 3 posts.
2. Intelligence test and A common paper to test the general knowledge 02 hours 100 40%
General Knowledge on timely important incidents in cultural
social, economical political, technological
scientific, sports and environmental fields of
Sri Lanka and of the word.
08. Salary Scale.– Rs. 15,005 - 4x180 - 6x240 - 11x 320 -20x360 - Rs. 27,885. MN-3-2006(A) (as per P. A. C. No. 6/2006 IV).
09. Terms of Engagement :
* Officers recruited should be willing to serve in any part of the island.
* Post you are appointed is permanent and pensionable.
10. Applications which do not comply with the terms of this notification will be rejected.
11. Receipt of the applications will not be informed. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
12. Eligible candidates will be called for the examination and it will be informed to the address mentioned in the application
before two weeks.
13. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared in accordance with the specimen form of application herewith. The words "Open
recruitment to the Departmental .......................... (mention the post applying for) in the service category of Supervising
Management Assistant Technical (MN-03) of the Ministry of Health - 2015" should be mentioned on the top - left hand
corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed and should be sent in registered post to reach Secretary,
(Director (Admin.) Branch 07, Ministry of Health, "Suwasiripaya". No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10 before 23.02.2015.
(b) The closing date is 23.02.2015.
(c) Examination fee is Rs. 300. The receipt obtained from paying the amount of Rs. 300 to any bank of Ceylon Branch to
the credit of the Account of "Director General of Health Service" No. 7041318 of the Bank of Ceylon. Taprobane Branch
should be affixed so as not be detached in the cage given under No. 07 the specimen form of application.
14. Attestation of signature. – Signature of the application should be attested by a Public Officer in Sri Lanka Administrative
Service/Educational Administrative Service/Government Accountants' Service/Principal of a Government School/Justice of the Peac e/
Attorney-at-Law or by a Public Officer holding a permanent and pensionable post whose annual salary is not less than Rs. 240,36 0.
Note :
* Applicant shall be responsible for filling each clause of the application and providing information accurately.
* Certified copies of certificates relevant to professional and technical qualifications should be attached.
* All officers recruited as mentioned above shall be subject to all laws and regulations applicable to the Public Officers,
Provisions of the Establishments Code of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, policies prescribed by the
Department of Health Services, Financial Regulations and other Regulations and to the laws, regulations and orders
imposed by the government from time to time.

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
157
* If any issue that is not covered by this General Circular
arises regarding the recruitments, the decision of the
Secretary to the Ministry of Health shall be the final
decision and in case of any inconsistency of the notification
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English the text in Sinhala
shall prevail.
S
UDHARMA KARUNARATHNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
29th September, 2014.
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO THE DEPARTMENTAL TECHNICAL
POSTS (MN-03-2006(A)) - 2015 OF THE MINISTRY OF
HEALTH - 2015
District of Residence :
Medium of Examination :
Sinhala - 01
Tamil - 02
English - 03
(Write the relevant number in the cage)
01. 1.1 Name of the applicant with initials :
Mr./Mrs./Miss :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals) Eg. : Mr./Mrs./Miss SILV A A. B.
1.2 Name in full :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
1.3 Name in  full :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
02. 2.1 Address (personal) :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.2 Address (personal) :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address (official) :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.4 Address (official) :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(An officer who is employed in Public Service/Provincial
Service/Corporation should mention his official address.
Change of address should be informed immediately)
03. 3.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.2 Age as at closing date :
Years :––––––––,  Month :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :
05. Male/Female :
06. Educational Qualifications :
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––.  Index No. :–––––––––.
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
(c) Details of occupational and technical qualifications :
Certificate Institute issued the Year Subjects
certificate
(Certified copies of the certificates relevant to the
occupational and technical qualifications should be
attached)
(d) Other particular qualifications and experience :–––––––.

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
158
07. Particulars relevant to the payment of the examination fee :
(i) The office to which the examination fee was paid :–––––.
(ii) Receipt No. and Date :––––––––––––.
(iii) Amount Paid :
Affix here the receipt obtained from a Bank of Ceylon
Branch by paying Rs. 300 as not be detached.
08. Certification of the applicant :
I declare that the information given herein are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am also aware if I have provided
any false information my candidature will be cancelled before or after the examination and if so found after selection. I am li able to be
dismissed from the service.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
09. Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ................................ is known to me personally and he/she placed his/her signature in my presence
on ..................... 2013.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attestor.
Name in full :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
02–72

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
159
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.02.2015
160
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
FEBRUARY 06.02.2015 Friday — 23.01.2015 Friday 12 noon
13.02.2015 Friday –– 30.01.2015 Friday 12 noon
20.02.2015 Friday –– 06.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
27.02.2015 Friday –– 13.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 06.03.2015 Friday — 20.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
13.03.2015 Friday –– 27.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
20.03.2015 Friday –– 06.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
27.03.2015 Friday –– 13.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 02.04.2015 Thursday — 20.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
10.04.2015 Friday –– 27.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
17.04.2015 Friday –– 02.04.2015 Thursday 12 noon
24.04.2015 Friday –– 10.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.04.2015 Thursday –– 17.04.2015 Friday 12 noon
W. A. A. G. FONSEKA,
Government Printer. (Acting)
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
22nd January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.