

<!-- page 1 -->

643 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
643
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 646
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 652
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th July, 2007, should reach the Government Press on
or before 12 noon on 29th June, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEW ARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,505 _ 2007 °ì¨Ł 06  Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .07 .06
No. 1,505 – FRIDAY ,  JULY  06,  2007
N.B.—  Part II  of the Gazette No. 1,504  of 29.06.2007  was not published.
Note.- (i) Judicature (Amendment) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of May 18, 2007.
(ii) Council of Muslims of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 15, 2007.
(iii) Sammanthurai Thableegul Islam Arabic College (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 08, 2007.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
644
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess all
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

645 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 2 - B 79503

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
646
Posts - Vacant
RECRUITMENT  TO  THE  POST  OF  CARPENTER
(CLASS  II)  IN  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  NATIONAL
ARCHIVES
APPLICATIONS are called for the post of carpenter (Class II) in
the Department of National Archives from the persons who possess
the qualifications mentioned in this notification.’
02. Condition of engagement .— This post is permanent and
pensionable and have 3 years probation period.
03. Conditions of Service .— Sections 10 - 12 in chapter 11 of the
Establishment Code will apply.
04. Salary Scale .— Monthly salary is Rs. 12,140-10x110 -
10x120 - 10x130 - 12x140 - 17,420
(According to PL2-2006 of the Public Administration Circular
No. 6/2006)
Should pass the efficiency bar within 3 years of appointment to
the post.
05. General Qualifications :
(i) Should not be less than 18 years and not more than 45
years of age (The upper age limit will not be applicable to
those who are already in public service.)
(ii)Should be of excellent character and sound physique.
(iii)Should agree to service in any part of the island depending
the exigency of service.
06. Educational and other Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed the grade 8 (year 9) in a school approved
by Director General of Education.
(ii)Should be able to read by 1/32 scale.
07. Trade Qualifications.— Should have obtained a training in
carpentry for a period of 06 months or more from a government
recognized institute such as the Technical College, National
Apprentice Board or National Training Authority.
08. Mode of Recruitment .— Selections will be made by subjecting
the applicants to a practical test in terms of the P. A. Circular
No. 15/90.
Syllabus :
(i) Testing the ability to work with the carpenters’ tools.
(ii)Identifying and adjusting a simple joint.
(iii)Simple drawing, reading and making (This is a 06 hour
practical test to be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
languages).
09. Mode of application :
(i) Applications prepared on A 4 sized papers in conformity
with the specimen application form shown below should be
sent under registered cover to reach the Director of National
Archives, Department of National Archives No. 07, Reid
Avenue Colombo 07 on or before 27.07.2007. Envelops
bearing the applications should be clearly marked with
“Recruitment to the post of carpenter (Class II)” on their
top left hand corner. (Applicants already in Public/Provincial
Public Service should send their applications through Heads
of Institutes.)
(ii)The applicant’s signature should be attested by a principal
of a government school or a Justice of the Peace, or a Chief
Priest of a religious place or an Attorney-at-Law or else a
Public office drawing a salary not less than Rs. 94,080 per
annum.
(iii)Applications not completed in every detail will be rejected
and the receipt or rejection of applications will   not be
informed.
(iv) The receipt of applications will close on 27.07.2007.
10. Provision of authentic information :
(i) If it was found that the applicant did not possess requisite
qualifications his application would be cancelled at any time
before appointment and if it was found after the appointment
that the applicant has knowingly given false information or
willfully concealed correct information he would be
dismissed from service without any compensation.
(ii)The decision of the Director of National Archives will be
final regarding the matters connected with this notification
for calling applications and the other matters not revealed
by the notification.
Doctor S
AROJA  WETTASINGHE ,
Director of National Archives.
Department of National Archives,
No. 07, Reid Avenue,
Colombo 07.
Department of National Archives
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF CARPENTER (CLASS II)
01. Name with initials :————————
02. Name denoted by  initials :————————.
03. Private Address :————————.
04. Official Address :————————.
05. Present residential address and the District :——————.
06. (i) Date of Birth :
Year:———. Month:———. Date:———.

<!-- page 5 -->

647 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
(ii) Age as at the date for closing the applications:
years:———. months:———. days:———.
07. Place of Birth :————————.
Are you a citizen of Sri Lanka ?
08. Sex:—————.
09. Whether married or single:————————.
10. (i) Educational Qualifications :————————.
(ii) Trade qualifications:————————
Name of Institute Duration Course followed
and the level of pass
From        To
11. If you have served in any department or government
corporation before this give reason for leaving that service :—
———————
12. If you have ever been convicted of a criminal offence or found
guilty by a court of law, state the nature of offence and the
punishment given.
13. Other remarks :-
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am aware that if any particular
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect I am liable
to disqualification before selection and to dismissal without
any compensation if the inaccuracy is detected after the
appointment.
————————,
Signature of applicant.
Date:—————.
14. Attesting the Applicant's Signature
I hereby certify  that Mr.Mrs.Miss ............................... is known
to me verywill and that he/she placed his/her  signature in my presence.
Name :—————.
Frank :—————.
Address :—————.
Date :—————.
Signature :—————.
Frank :—————.
15. Certificate of the  Head of Department/ Institute if the
applicant is engaged in public service.
I forward  the application of Mr. Mrs. Miss ........................ and
I state that he/she serves in this  Department/Institute as a permanent/
Temporary/casual ............................. and that  he/she can be / cannot
be released from his/her  service if selected to this  post.
—————,
Signature and frank
of the Head of Department.
Date :—————.
Institute :—————.
07-48/2
NATIONAL   ARCHIVES    DEPARTMENT
Recruitment to the Post of Building Maintenance Officer
(Sri Lanka Technical Service segment II B)
APPLICATIONS are invited for the post of Building Maintenance
Officer (Sri Lanka Technical Service segment II B) from the candidates
who possessed qualifications as mentioned in this Notification.
01. General Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should not be less than 18 years and more than 45
years of age (This upper age limit will not be applicable to
those who are already in the Public Service).
(ii)Applicants should possess an excellent character and be
physically fit.
(iii)Applicants should agree to serve any part of the Island
depending on the exigencies of service.
02. Educational qualifications.– Applicants should have passed
six subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) with 04 credit passes including
Language or Literature, Arithmatic/Mathematics at more than 02
sitting or at an equivalent examination.
03. Professional Qualifications._
(i) National Diploma in Technology (Civil) awarded by the
University of Moratuwa or by Hardi Institute of Ampara.
or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering (Civil) awarded by the
National Apprentice and Technical Training Authority.
or
(iii)Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Ministry of Higher
B3–B 079519

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
648
Education.
or
(iv) Higher Diploma in Engineering awarded by the Open
University.
or
(v) Completion of 1st part of the Engineering Examination
conducted by the Sri Lanka Institute of Engineering.
or
(vi) Other qualifications similar to that of above Technical
qualifications accepted by the Sri Lanka Technical Service
Board.
04. Condition of engagement :- This post is permanent and
pensionable and have 3 years probation Period.
05. Condition of Service._ Section from 10-12 in Chapter II of the
Establishment’s Code will be applicable.
06.  Salary Scale._
Salary scale attached to Class I segment II A and segment II B
in the Sri Lanka Technical Service.
Monthly Rs. 14,140 - 10 x 140 -11x 150 -6 x 210 - 14x 290 -
Rs. 22,510
(In terms of Public Administration Circular MT 2-2006 of
6/2006)
Appointees should pass the first Efficiency Bar Examination
within the period of three years after appointment to the
post.
07. Method of requiement.- Recruitment to the post will be made
based on the results of a competitive examination held as per
Public Administration Circular No. 15/90 under the supervision
of Technical Service Board.
The date of the examination to be held and the scheme of
examination will be notified.
08. Method of Application._
8.1 Applications which are perfected on A4 size paper as per
specimen form appeared in the notification should be sent
by registered post to reach Director, National Archives
Deparment, No.07, Reid Avenue, Colombo 07 before 27th
of July 2007.
The top left hand corner of the envelop enclosing
applications should be already marked “Recruitment to
the Post of Building Maintenance Officer in the Sri Lanka
Technical Service II A”.
(The applicants who are already in Public/Provincial Public
service should forward their applications through
respective employers).
8.2 The principal of a Government school, justice of Peace,
Priest in charge of a sacred place, Lawyer of Government
officer whose annual salary in more than Rs.94,080 should
attest the signature of an applicant.
8.3 Applications which are not duly perfected will be rejected
and such rejections or receipt will not be informed.
8.4 The closing date of the applications is 27.07.2007.
09. Furnish of false information ._ If any applicant is found that
he/she didn’t possess requisite qualifications at any time prior to the
appointment his/her candidature will be cancelled. After appointment
it if is revealed that false information have been furnished deliberately
or correct information has been wilfully suppressed he/she will be
dismissal without giving any compensations.
 10. The decision of the Director National Archives will be final
regarding the matters pertaining to the notification or other matters
not covered by the notification.
Dr. S
AROJA  WETTASINGHE ,
Director,
National Archives.
National Archives Department,
No. 07.
Reid Avenue,
Colombo 07.
19th June, 2007.
Application for the post of Building Maintenance Officer
(Sri Lanka Technical Service segment IIB) in National
Archives Department
01. (i) Name with initials :———.
(ii) Name indicated by initials  :———.
02. (i) Address of permanent residence  :———.
Telephone  :———.
(ii) Address of present residence Telephone  :———.
(iii) Official address  :———. Telephone  :———.
03. National Identity Card No.  :———.
04. Date of Birth  :
Year  :———. Month:———. Date  :———.
05. Age as at closing date :
Years :———.Months:———. Days  :———.
06. Sex  :———.
07. Civil Status  :———.
08. Educational Qualification  :
(i) G. C. E. (O/L) Examination  :
Year Medium Index No.
Subject Grade
........................ ....................... ....................

<!-- page 7 -->

649 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
(ii) G. C. E. (A/L) Examination  :———.
Year Medium Index No.
Subject Grade
.................... ................... ...................
Professional and other qualifications :-
i. Information relating to courses followed  :———.
Course Duration Course Studied Pass
Institute From - To
ii. Information relating to other qualification
10. Have you been convicted of any charge in a court of law?
Yes/No  :———.
If yes give details  :———.
11. Certification of the applicant  :———.
i. I hereby  certify that particulars furnished by me in this
applications are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
ii. I am aware that if this declaration made by  me is found
to be false i am liable to be disqualified and to dismissed
without any compensation if detected so after
appointment.
———.
Signature of application.
Date  :———.
12. Attestation of Signature of the Application
I hereby certify that the above signed Mr/Mrs/Miss.... is well
known to me and placed his/her signature in my presence.
Name .......................
Designation.......................................... Signature
Address.....................................Seal
Date................................
13. P Certificate of the Head of the Department/Institution. (Only
for the applicants who are already in the public service) Mr/Mrs/
Miss... has been attached to this Department/Institution with effect
from ... He/She holds permanent pensionable/Temporary/Casual post.
All increments have been earned during the last five years. His/Her
work/attendance and conduct is satisfactory. I  certify that he/she
not subject to any disciplinary punishment (exept warnings). He/
she can/can not be released if selected to this post.
 :———.
Signature of Head of the Department/
Institute.
Name  :———.
Desingnation  :———.
Department/Institute  :———.
Date  :———.
07-48/1
POST OF MEDICAL REGISTRAR OF BIRTHS MARRIAGE AND DEATH OF THE REGISTRAR GENERAL’S DEPART-
MENT - KANDY DISTRICT
Notice of Cancellation
The calling for applications for the following Divisions which appeared in the Notices of calling for applications for the posts of Birth,
Marriage and Death Registrars in the  Kandy District is cancelled hereby for implementation of New scheme of recruitment.
L. K. Rathnasiri
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department
No. 280, Main Street, Colombo 11.
07.06.2007

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
650
SCHEDULE
District Division of the The Division & the Post for which No. and date of
Divisional applications are called Gazette
Secretary notification
Kandy Udapalatha Post of Addl. Registrar of 1451 of 23.06.2006
Marriages (Kandyan/General) in
Dunuke Ulla area in Udapalatha
Division
- do - Four Graverts & Post of Addl. Registrar of 1451 of 23.06.2006
Gangawata Korale Marriages (Kandyan/General) in
Gatambe area in Gangawata Korale
Division
- do - Panwila Post of Registrar of Marriages 1451 of 23.06.2006
(Kandyan/General) in Panwila
area in Pathadumbara Division.
- do - Thumpane Post of Addl. Registrar of 1451 of 23.06.2006
Marriages (Kandyan/General) in
Thumpane Division and Births
and Deaths in Gan Ata Division
Thunpane.
- do - Yatinuwara Post of Registrar of Marriages 1451 of 23.06.2006
(Kandyan/General) in Udunuwara
and Yatinuwara Division
- do - Udapalatha Post of Registrar of Muslim 1450 of 16.06.2006
Marriages in Gampola Town
 Division.
- do - Udapalatha Post of Registrar of Muslim 1450 of 16.06.2006
Marriages in Andiya Kadawatha
area Gampola Division.
-do- Yatinuwara Post of Registrar of Muslim 1450 of 16.06.2006
Marriages in Muruthalawa Dehi
Anga area in Udunuwara and
Yatinuwara Division.
- do - Four Gravets and Post of Registrar of Marriages 1400 of 01.07.2005
Gangawata Korale (Kandyan/General) in Kandy
Division and births and deaths in
Gangawata Korale Division.
- do - Pasbage Korale Post of Medical Registrar of 1400 of 01.07.2005
Nawalapitiya Town.
- do - Ganga Ihala Post of Registrar of Muslim 1398 of 17.06.2005
Korale Marriages in Ulapane area in
Udapalatha Division.
- do - Udunuwara Post of Registrar of Muslim 1398 of 17.06.2005
Marriages in Meewaladeniya area
in Udunuwara and Yatinuwara
Division.

<!-- page 9 -->

651 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of Muslim 1398 of 17.06.2005
Marriages in Pethiyagoda area in
Udunuwara and Yatinuwara
Division.
- do - Four Gravets and Post of Addl. Registrar of 1370 of 03.12.2004
Gangawata Marriages (Kandyan/General)
in Yatinuwara and Four Gravets &
Gangawata Korale Division
- do - Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Marriages 1328 of 13.02.2004
(Kandyan/General) in
Pathahewaheta Division and
births and deaths in Marassana
Division.
Kandy Pathahewaheta Post of Addl. Registrar of 1328 of 13.02.2004
Marriages (Kandyan/General)
in Pichchamalwatta area in
Pathahewaheta Division.
- do - Harispattuwa Post of Addl. Registrar of 1328 of 13.02.2004
Marriages (Kandyan/General)
in Hingulwala area in
Harispattuwa Division.
- do - Pujapitiya Post of Registrar of 1318 of 28.11.2003
Marriages (Kandyan/General)
in Harispattuwa Division and births
and deaths in Udagampaha
No. 01 Division.
- do - Four gravets and Post of Medical Registrar of Births 1307 of 19.09.2003
Gangawata Korale and Deaths in Kandy Town Division.
- do - Pujapitiya Post of Registrar of Muslim 1241 of 14.06.2002
Marriages in Galhinna area in
Harispattuwa Division.
- do - Pathahewaheta Post of Registrar of Muslim 1241 of 14.06.2002
Marriages in Udadeni Area in
Pathahewaheta Division.
- do - Pujapitiya Post of Registrar of Muslim 1241 of 14.06.2002
Marriages in Bulugahatenna area
in Harispattuwa Division.
- do - Minipe Post of Registrar of Marriages 1235 of 03.05.2002
(Kandyan/General) Ududumbara
Division and births and deaths in
Kandapahala south Division.
Kandy Udunuwara Post of Registrar of Marriages 1235 of 03.05.2002
(Kandyan/General) in Udunuwara
and Yatinuwara Division and
District Division of the The Division & the Post for which No. and date of
Divisional applications are called Gazette
Secretary notification

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
652
births and deaths in Udunuwara
Kandupalatha Division.
- do - Harispattuwa Post of Registrar of Marriages 1235 of 03.05.2002
(Kandyan/General) in Harispattuwa
Division and Births and Deaths in
Pallegampaha South (No. 01) Division
- do - Pathadumbara Post of Registrar of Marriages 1235 of 03.05.2002
(Kandyan/General) in Pathadumbara
Division and Births and Deaths in
Pallegampaha West-Pathadumbara Division
07-63
District Division of the The Division & the Post for which No. and date of
Divisional applications are called Gazette
Secretary Notification
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
FIRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION  -  2006 FOR WOMEN DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS
OF THE MINISTRY OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT AND WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT.
THE  First  Efficiency  Bar  Examination  for  Women  Development  Officers of  the  Ministry  of  Child  Development  and  Women’s
Empowerment  will  be  held  by  the  Commissioner  General  of  Examinations  on  October  2007  in  Colombo.  It  is  herewith  informed
that  20th  July  2007  is  the  closing  date  of  the  application  for  this  examination.
02. Procedures  of  the  Examination :-
This  Efficiency  Bar  Examination  consists  of  the  following  subjects.
Subject  No. 01 Financial  regulations / Office  system Duration  2 hours 100  marks
Subject  No. 02 Gender  and  Women’s  Rights — do —
Subject  No. 03 Sociological  and  Psychological  Counselling — do —
Notes:
(a) Officers  are  permitted  to  sit  all  subjects  at  a  single  sitting  or  separately  at  different  sittings.
(b) In  order  to  pass  this  examination  all  candidates  should  score  40%  of  the  marks  or  above  for  each  question
paper.
03. Subjects :-
i. Financial  Regulations  and  Office  System
* State  managerial  structure  of  Sri Lanka.
* Financial  control  and  annual  estimates.
* Orders  of  the  establishment  code  and  financial  regulations.

<!-- page 11 -->

653 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
The  following  chapters  of  the  establishment  code  will  be  covered.
I, II, IV , V , VII, IX, XII, XV , XXIII, XXVI, XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII
First  volume  of  the  government  financial  regulations.  (excluding chapter X)
* Office  Management
ii. Gender  and  Women’s  Rights
* Discriminations  against  women
* Gender  in  Sri Lankan  society
* Women’s  Charter  of  Sri Lanka  and  Women’s  Rights
iii. Sociological  and  Psychological  Counselling
* Rural  Sociology
* Urbanization  of  Sri Lanka
* Labour  Development
* Basic  Features  and  Ethics  of  Psychological  Counselling
* Women  and  Mental  Injustice
* Counselling  Career  and  Counselling  Opportunities  in  Sri Lanka.
04. A  specimen  application  form  of  this  examination  has  been  published  at  the  end  of  this  notice.  Candidates  should
prepare  their  applications  in  accordance  with  the  specimen.  Application  should  be  prepared  in  a  A4  size  paper  which  should  bear
No.  01  to  No.  06  in  the  first  page  and  the  rest in  the  second.  It  should  be  submitted  in  candidate’s  own  handwriting.
05. The  application  should  be  sent  under  registered  cover  through  the  heads  of  respective  departments  (if  the  applicant
is  from  a  Divisional  Secretariat  through  the  Divisional  Secretary)  addressed  to  the  Commissioner  General  of  Examinations,
Organization  and  Foreign  Examinations  Branch,  Department  of  Examinations,  Pelawatta,  Battaramulla  to  reach  on  or  before  20th
July  2007.  The  name  of  the  examination  should  be  indicated  on  the  top  left  hand  corner  of  the  envelope  which  enclosed  the
application.  Application  received  after  the  closing  date  and  the  incomplete  applications  will  be  rejected.
In  compliance  to  the  official  language  policy  newly  recruited  officers  could  submit  their  applications  in  the  official
language  or  application  prepared  in  the  language  of  Tamil / Sinhala  in  which  the  officer  was  selected  to  the  service.
06. A  copy  of  the  time  table  of  the  examination  along  with  the  admission  card  will  be  issued  by  the  commissioner  to
the  candidtes  whose  applications  were  accepted.  Simultaneously  a  notification  will  be  published  in  the  news  paper  in  respect  of
the  date  of  examination.  In  case  a  candidate  fail  to receive  the  admission  card  at  least  four  days  before  the  examination,  it  should
be  immediately  notified  with  the  following  details  in  writing  to  the  Commissioner  General  of  Examinations,  Organization  and
Foreign  Examination  Branch,  Department  of  Examinations,  Pelawatta,  Battaramulla  (Telegram  address,  Examination  Battaramulla).
i. Name  of  the  Examination :-
ii. Full  name  of  the  applicant :-
iii.Address :-
iv. Name  of  the  post  office  where  the  application  was  posted,  registration  number  and  the  address:-
07. Proof  of  Identity.– Candidates  should  prove  their  identity  to  the  supervisor  of  the  examination  centre  at  the  time
she  sits  each  paper.  Any  of  the  following  documents  will  be  accepted  in  respect  of  identification.
i. A  valid  National  Identity  Card  issued  by  the  Commissioner  of  Registration  of  Persons.
ii. A  valid  Passport
The  Commissioner  General  of  Examinations  has  the  power  to  cancel  or  reject  the  candidature  of  those  failed  to  submit
the  above  mentioned  documents.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
654
08. Examination  Fees.–  Fees  will  be  charged  from  the  candidates  who  sit  this  examination  based  the  following :-
Rs. Cts.
(a)  No  examination  fee  will  be  charged  for  first  time
(b) After  first  time,  for  the  complete  examination 115 .  00
(c)  For  each  subject   75 .  00
The  fees  should  be  paid  by  stamps  duly  cancelled  by  placing  the  signature  of  candidate.
09. This  examination  will  be  conducted  by  the  Commissioner  General  of  Examinations  and  the  candidates  will  be  subject
to  the  rules  and  regulations  imposed  by  him  in  respect  of  conducting  the   examination.
10. The  head  of  the  department / office   should   grant   the   duty   leave   to   the   officers   of   his / her  department / office
in  respect  of  the  officers  who  has  been  issued  an  admission  card  to  sit  the  examination.
11. Facts  not  included  in  this  scope  of  regulations  will  be  at  the  discretion  of  the  Ministry  of  Child  Development  and
Women’s  Empowerment.
Secretary,
Ministry  of  Child  Development  and
 Women’s  Empowerment.
14th June, 2007.
Ministry  of  Child  Development  and  Women’s  Empowerment,
No.  177,  Nawala Road,
Narahenpita.
(For  Office  use  only)
Application  Form
First  Efficiency  Bar  Examination  -  2006  for  Women  Development  Officers
of the Ministry  of  Child  Development  and  Women’s  Empowerment
Language  Medium
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(write  the  relevant  number  in  the  cage)
1. Name
1.1. Name  with  Initials :__________,
Initials  at  the  end  (in  capital  letters)
Eg:  SILV A  A. B.
1.2. Name  refers  the  initials :__________,
1.3. National  Identity  Card  No. :
2. Official  Address:__________,
(in  capital  letters)
2.1. Official  Address :__________,
(in  Sinhala / Tamil)

<!-- page 13 -->

655 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
2.2. Address where the admission
card has to be sent :__________,
(in capital letters)
3. Sex:- 3.1. Female - 1 Male - 0
(write  the  relevant  number  in  the  cage)
3.2. Whether  Married or Single Married - 1
Single - 2
(write  the  relevant  number  in  the  cage)
3.3. Date  of  Birth :- Date Month Y ear
3.4. Age  on  closing  date  of  the  application :-  Years Months           Days
4. Date  of  appointment  as  a  Women  Development  Officer  in  the  Ministry  of  Child  Development  and  Women’s
Empowerment :-........................................ (should  state  the  exact  date  of  duty  assumption)
5. Are you a recruit  enlisted in  compliance  to  the  State Language Policy ?  or  a  new  recruit ? :__________,
6. Name  of  the  department  (if  it  is  a  divisional  secretariat  name  of  the  office) :__________,
7. Subjects  and  subject  numbers  published  in  the  gazette  notification  under  paragraph  2.:-
Subject Subject  No.
01 ................................
02 ................................
03 ................................
8. Is  this  the  first  time  that  you  sit  this  examination? :__________,
9. I  certify  that  the  particulars  above  are  correct  and  I  declare  that  I  am  eligible  to  sit  this  examination in  the  above
mentioned  language.
:__________,
Signature  of  Candidate
Date :__________,
Note : The  applicant  should  place  her  signature  in  presence  of  her  head  of  the  department  or  an  authorized  officer  to
sign  on  behalf  of  the  head  of  the  department  and  the  sectional  head  of  the  department.
Certification  of  Signature
I  hereby  certify  that  Miss. / Mrs. ..............................................................................  is  an  officer  working  in  my  office  and
personally  known  to  me  and  also  she  placed  her  signature  in  my  presence.
Name :__________,
Designation :__________,
Address :__________,
:__________,
Signature  of  Attestor

<!-- page 14 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
656
Certification  of  the  Head  of  the  Department
I  hereby  certify  that
i. I  examined  the  details  furnished  and  found  them  to  be  correct,
ii. And  also  the  applicant  is  eligible  to  sit  this  examination.
__________,
Signature  of  the Head of the Department
(Place  the official stamp  here)
Designation :__________,
Date :__________,
07-46

<!-- page 15 -->

657 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 1995
(Issued every Friday)
1. All notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments
to the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 9.00 a.m. to 4.45 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.30 a.m. to 3.30 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid. Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompa-
nied by Money order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in
payment of Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor
of the Supreme Court.
10. The authorised scale for charges for notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 1995 :–
Rs. c.
One inch or less 5 1 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof 5 1 0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette 504 0
Two columns or one page of Gazette 1,008 0
All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.
11. The "Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka" is published every Friday. Day of publication is
subject to alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Government Press, Colombo 8, as shown in
schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. * REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 1995
(Govt. Gazette Annual)
Local Foreign
     Rs. c.       Rs. c.
Whole of Part I (3 sections together) 1,612 0 2,098 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 572 0 745 0
Section I 520 0 1,007 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders Examinations etc.) 624 0 1,009 0
Section III 468 0 907 0
Extraordinary Gazette 3,360 0 4,422 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less than 12
months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies if available in stock
Price Postage (Local)
  Rs. c.   Rs. c.
(A) Part I 3 1 0 5 0
Parts II to VI (Each Part) 1 1 0 5 0
(B) Section I 1 0 0 5 0
Section II 1 2 0 5 0
Section III 9 0 5 0
All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road,
Colombo 01, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .07 .06
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2007
658
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette. Payments
should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 32, Lotus Road, Colombo 01.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
Schedule
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2007
JULY 06.07.2007 Friday — 22.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
13.07.2007 Friday –– 29.06.2007 Friday 12 noon
20.07.2007 Friday –– 06.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
27.07.2007 Friday –– 13.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 03.08.2007 Friday — 20.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
10.08.2007 Friday –– 27.07.2007 Friday 12 noon
17.08.2007 Friday –– 03.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
24.08.2007 Friday –– 10.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
31.08.2007 Friday –– 17.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 07.09.2007 Friday — 24.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
14.09.2007 Friday –– 31.08.2007 Friday 12 noon
21.09.2007 Friday –– 07.09.2007 Friday 12 noon
28.09.2007 Friday –– 14.09.2007 Friday 12 noon
L AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.