

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2524
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2524 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"353 – 2023 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 06 jeks isl=rdod – 2023'10'06
No. 2,353  –  fRiday,  octobER 06, 2023
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27
th october, 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th october, 2023.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2023.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2521 - b 082501 - 5,403 (10/2023)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2522
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2523
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2524
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
OffICE  Of ThE  CAbINET  Of mINISTERS
Notification for the Calling Applications for the Appointment to the Post of Deputy Director Class I 
Grade II of the Sri Lanka Information and Communication  Technology Service
tHiS  is with reference to the Notification on the above subject published in the Gazette Notification  No. 2,348 dated 
01.09.2023 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 02. The Closing date of calling applications referred to in paragraph 02 of the said Notification is extended up to 31.10.2023.
03. Please be informed that candidates who have already submitted their applications as per the Gazette Notification 
referred to in paragraph 01 above, need not reapplying.
   Secretary to the cabinet,
  Office of the Cabinet of Ministers.
Lloyids' building,
Sir barron Jayathilaka Mw,
colombo 01.
t .P. 0112329620/ 0112422438,
fax. 0112323730,
Email. info@cabinetoffice.gov.lk
10 - 115
ThE  mINISTR y Of SPORTS  AND yOuTh Aff AIRS
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Entrepreneurship Development Training Officers in the  
Small Enterprise Development Division of  The Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs - 2020 (2023)
tHE  First Efficiency Bar Examination for Entrepreneurship Development Training Officers in the Small Enterprises 
Development Division of the Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs is scheduled to be held in Colombo by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations on behalf of this Ministry in december, 2023. applications are called for in terms of the appended 
notification. 
 02. Examination Procedure
 (a) this examination is consisting of three question papers and the syllabus related to each question paper is 
indicated under No.03.
 (b) A total of 100 marks is allocated for each subject from subjects 01 to 03 and minimum of 40 marks is required 
for a pass in each subject.
 (c) the examination is conducted in Sinhala and t amil medium and the medium selected will not be allowed to be 
changed subsequently.
 (d) In the case of the subject of English, it is required to obtain 30 marks out of 75 marks allocated for the written 
examination and 10 marks out of 25 marks allocated for the oral test. 
 (e) For the three subjects which are offered in the examination, a pass may be obtained at one sitting or several 
sittings. if one of the two tests, i.e. written and oral tests in English, is not passed, an applicant may apply only 
for the failed test, next time.  
Posts - v acant 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2525
    (f)     Examination fees :  Exemption from examination fees  is granted  for the whole examination or part thereof at 
the first sitting and if not following examination fees will be charged.
  
            full examination  : Rs. 600.00
  For one subject  : Rs. 200.00 
  the receipt obtained  in favor of the applicant  for the payment of this fee , crediting to  Revenue Head 
No. 20-03-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations, at any Post Office/Sub Post Office should be 
affixed at one fringe in the relevant cage in the application form. No stamps or Money Orders are accepted as 
examination fees and fee paid for the examination shall not be refunded or changed for any other examination 
under any circumstances. 
 03. Question Papers and Syllabus  relevant to each question paper:-
 
  first Question Paper (duration 03 hours)
  01.  Financial Regulations ( Subject Code-01)
 i.  consolidated fund
 ii.  Budget Classification Units
 iii.  Recurrent Expenditure /capital Expenditure
 iv.  Virement procedure
 v.  Supervision by the Chief Accounting Officer
 vi.  Accounting Officers and Public Revenue Accounting Officers
 vii.  Responsibility of the Chief Accounting Officer
 viii.  Obligations and Responsibilities of Public Revenue Accounting Officers
 ix.  t reasury Monitoring and control
 x.  Executive functions of the treasury as a department
 xi.  internal auditing
 xii.  Delegation of duties pertaining to financial control
 xiii.  ((a)Expenditure (b) Revenue)
 xiv.  audit Queries
 xv.  Payment procedure
 xvi.  boar of Survey
 xvii.  Procedure pertaining to procurement of supplies and services
  Second Question Paper (duration 03 hours)
  02.  Establishment code and Office Procedures  ( Subject Code – 02)
  a  question paper set to examine the knowledge on  chapter i, ii, iii, iV , Vi, Vii, Viii, Xii, XiV , XV , XXii, XXiV , 
XXV , XXVii of volume 1 of the Establishment code and chapter XLVii of volume ii of the Establishment code.
  Third Question Paper (duration 03 hours)
 03.  English ( Subject Code-03)
 (a)  Written test ( Subject Code - 03(I))
 (b)  Oral Test       ( Subject Code-03(II))
 (1)  content
  Written test (duration 03 hours)
 (a)  Grammar : the following areas will be tested.
 (i)  the verb forms of all principal tenses of English eg: the Present Simple tense, the Simple 
Past, the Present Perfect, etc.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2526
 (ii)  Nouns, countable, Uncountable
 (iii)  Pronouns
 (iv)  Adjective Degrees of Comparison
 (v)  adverbs of frequency, Word order, Phrases
 (vi)  Prepositions
 (vii)  determiners
 (viii)  Question words
 (ix)  Model auxiliaries, can, May, Might, Should, Must, ought
 (x)  The Definite Article
 (xi)  cardinal/ordinals
 (xii)  the Passive construction
 (xiii)  Relative clause
 (xiv)  if clauses
 (xv)  Reported Speech
 (xvi)  there is/ there are
 (xvii)  Have/Has
  (b)  V ocabulary test will be in General Modern English with special emphasis on the following field of 
Management administration and Social and Economic development.
 (c)  Writing – Ability to write Essays, Department Reports, Official letters.
  oral Examination (duration 15 minutes)
 (i)  Speech
 (ii)  Listening comprehension
 (iii)  Reading
 (2)  Scheme of Examination 
 (1)  Written examination – there will be one paper of duration 03 hours ( 75% marks)
  (2)  oral examination – duration 05 minutes (25% marks)
04.   mode of application
  application should be prepared in both sides of an a4 paper, in accordance with the specimen appended in this notice. 
first page of the application should include Heads No. 1 to 3 and the rest should be in the second page. Relevant details 
should be given in your own hand-writing. applications should be strictly in accordance with the specimen given in 
the notice and irrelevant applications and applications with incomplete information will be rejected without notice.  
(It will be useful to retain a Photostat copy of the filled application). When preparing the application, the name of the 
examination should also be given in English, in applications prepared in Sinhala and tamil mediums.  
 (b) closing date of applications is 06.11.2023. Duly filled applications should be sent through the Head of the 
department under registered post to reach the address given below, before 06.11.2023. 
commissioner General of Examinations
institutional Examinations organization branch
department of Examinations 
P.o.box. 1503
colombo.
 (c)  t op left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application should be clearly  marked  with  “   first 
Efficiency Bar Examination for Entrepreneurship Development Training Officers -2020(2023) ”.  Any late 
applications will not be entertained.
 
 (d) Immediately on issuance of Admission cards, a notice to that effect will be published in the official website 
of the department of Examinations.  any applicant who does not receive his admission card after a lapse of 
2 or 3 days from the publication of the said notice, should make inquiries in the prescribed manner from the 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2527
organization (institutional and foreign Exams.) division of the department of Examinations. When making 
such an inquiry, the name of the examination applied for, full name of the applicant, address and Number of 
the National identity card Number should be correctly indicated. in the case of applicants residing away from 
colombo, it will be appropriate to send a letter to the fax number given in the notice, along with the foregoing 
information, indicating a return fax number  in order to receive a copy of the admission card by fax. (it will 
be rather useful to retain a copy of the application, a copy of the receipt for the payment of examination fees 
and Postal Registration slip issued by the Post Office for submission at the time of making inquiries.) 
 (e) applicant’s signature in the application and in the  admission 
  Card should be attested by the Head of the Department or an authorized officer. 
 05. Appearing for the examination 
       if it is applicable to make the payment of examination fees on or before the closing date of applications, the applicants 
who have submitted their duly perfected applications along with the official receipt of examination fees, indicating the 
medium in which they sit for the examination, their signature and the certificate of the Head of the Department shall 
be issued with the admission card by the commissioner General of Examinations. the candidates should sit for the 
examination at the assigned Examination Hall where their attested admission card should be furnished to the chief 
invigilator of the examination at the Examination Hall.  any candidate who fails to furnish his/her admission card shall 
not be allowed to sit for the examination. 
Note :   The candidates who have paid due examination fees and have forwarded their duly filled applications along with 
the receipt of fees, on or before the closing date shall be issued with admission cards by the commissioner General 
of Examinations, on the pre-assumption that those possessing requisite qualifications set out in the notice only 
would have applied for the examination. issuance of a admission card should not construed as acceptance of 
the suitability to sit for the examination.  All candidates are subjected to rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the examination. an infringement thereof 
will subject the applicant to a punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
 (b)  identity of applicants -  applicants should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the invigilator with regard to all 
the subjects they are appearing for. Only one of the following document will be entertained for this purpose.
 i.  National identity card
 ii.  Valid Passport
 iii.  Valid Sri Lankan driving License
  candidates should enter into the Examination hall without hiding their faces and ears and will remain as the same to 
ease their identification to the examiner until the examination finished, if anyone failed to do so will not be permitted 
to enter into the examination hall. 
 06.  in the event of any ambiguity not covered in this notice, the decision of the Secretary of the Ministry   of Sports and 
Youth Affairs shall be final.
 07.  in case of any inconsistency prevails among language text of this notice published in Sinhala, tamil and English 
languages, the Sinhala text shall prevail in such an instance.
   K. Mahesan,
   Secretary,
   Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs.
No. 09,
Philip Gunawardena Mw.,
colombo 07. 
22nd September, 2023.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2528
Specimen Application form
                                                                                                                    (For office use only)
First Efficiency Bar Examination for Entrepreneurship Development
Training Officers in the Small Enterprise Development Division of
The Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs (2020(2023)
Medium appearing for the examination   :                        Medium 
Write relevant Number (Sinhalese -2/t amil -  3) in the box.
 1.1  Name  with initials indieating initials at the end : (in English block letters)
  eg. GUNa W aRdaNa, M.G.b.S.K.
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
 1.2  full name
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
           (in English block letters)
 1.3  full name :
  ..........................................................................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala)
 1.4 National identity card No : .............................................................................................................................................
02.
 2.1. Official address : ..............................................................................................................................................................
  (in English block letters)
  (admission cards will be dispatched to this address)
 2.2. Permanent address : .........................................................................................................................................................
  (in Sinhala)
 2.3. Gender 
  (female-1/Male-0) (write the relevant number in the box.)
 2.4. Mobile Phone Number :
 0.3. Subject offered:
Subject Name Subject Code
1.
2.
3.
 04.  Number of times appeared for the examination :  ……………………………………
   05.    Examination fees
 (i)  Fee paid: Rs………………… (ii)  Paid Office : ………………………………
 (iii) Paid on: …………………….. (iv)  Receipt No: ………………………………

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2529
If the examination fee has been paid, as per para.02 (f) of this notice, affix the receipt here. 
Retain a copy of the receipt.
 
  i hereby declare that the particulars above details are true and correct. i will abide by the rules and regulations 
imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations with regard to the conduct of the examination and release of 
results. 
date : ………………………
Signature of applicant : ………………………………………………..
Certificate of the Head of the Institution
 i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ………………………………….. Who submits this application placed his/her signature before 
me / details furnished by him/her are correct and he/she is in possession of qualifications to sit for this examination. Further, 
I certify that he/she appears for this examination for the first time/ has paid requisite examination fees and the receipt is 
affixed. 
………………………………………………………………..
Signature
date:
Name:
designation:
address: 
10 - 43

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2023'10'06
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.10.2023
2530
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is 
allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2023
 SEPTEmbER  01.09.2023 friday –– 18.08.2023 friday 12 noon
  08.09.2023 friday –– 25.08.2023 friday 12 noon
  15.09.2023 friday –– 01.09.2023 friday 12 noon
  22.09.2023 friday –– 08.09.2023 friday 12 noon
  27.09.2023   Wednesday –– 15.09.2023 friday 12 noon
 OCTObER  06.10.2023 friday –– 22.09.2023 friday 12 noon
  13.10.2023 friday –– 27.09.2023 Wednesday 12 noon
  20.10.2023 friday –– 06.10.2023 friday 12 noon
  27.10.2023 friday –– 13.10.2023 friday 12 noon
 NOvEmbER  03.11.2023 friday –– 20.10.2023 friday 12 noon
  10.11.2023 friday –– 27.10.2023 friday 12 noon
  17.11.2023 friday –– 03.11.2023 friday 12 noon
  24.11.2023 friday –– 10.11.2023 friday 12 noon
  
 Gangani Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2023.
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.