

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
LAKSHMAN WASANTHA PERERA COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION)
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Neranjan Wickremasinghe M. P. for Kurunegala   District
on 05th December, 2012
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
to incorporate the Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community Development
Foundation
——————
——————
[Bill No. 196]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on November 19, 2012)
2—PL 006818—850 (12/2012)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
Short title.
25
2—PL 006713—75 (10/2012)
Preamble.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE LAKSHMAN WASANTHA PERERA
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
"Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community Development
Foundation" has heretofore been formed for the purpose of
effectually carrying out its objects and matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for public advantage to grant
the said application:
BE It Therefore enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka:—
1. This Act, may be cited as the Lakshman Wasantha
Perera Community Development Foundation
(Incorporation) Act, No.  of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many person as now are members of the
"Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community Development
Foundation" (hereinafter referred to as the "Foundation") or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate with perpetual
succession, under the name and style of the "Lakshman
Wasantha Perera Community Development Foundation" "
(hereinafter referred to as the "Corporation") and by that
name may sue and be sued, with full power and authority to
have and use a common seal and to alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be:—
Incorporation
of the
Lakshman
Wasantha
Perera
Community
Development
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 3 -->

Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
(a) to undertake the execution of road development
and housing schemes, the construction and
development of hospitals, Aesthetic Educational
Centres, schools, community centres and such other
activities with a view to developing towards and
villages ;
(b) to assist the students who need help;
(c) to establish and maintain libraries, reading rooms
and study centers;
(d) to collect, print, publish and distribute books,
journals and magazines;
(e) to maintain cordial relationship with other
organizations having similar objects;
(f) to plan and implement community welfare,
educational and social development projects in Sri
Lanka;
(g) to promote education, health, recreation, culture
and agriculture, to provide grants, scholarships,
gifts, donations and financial assistance for the
improvement, extension and publicize knowledge
and to establish institutions for this purpose;
(h) to promote areas relating to traditional knowledge
and to establish institutions for this purpose;
(i) to commence and maintain projects for the
protection and conservation of the environment ;
and
(j) to liaise and co- ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects
4.  (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provision of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation, be administered by a Board
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 4 -->

3Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
of Directors consisting of Chairman and Secretary, Treasurer
and another four members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Hon.
Lakshman Wasantha Perera shall be the Chairman of the
Board of Directors for life and thereafter, the Family member
of the person who was holding office as Chairman shall
become the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of Directors of the  Corporation shall
consist of the members of the Board of Administration of
the Foundation holding office on the day immediately
preceding the date of commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new member shall be appointed to fill such
vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a
period of four years.
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and excute all such acts, things and matters
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of objects of the Corporation or any one of
them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable or immovable, to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow or raise moneys with or without security,
to receive or collect grants or donations, to invest its funds
and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants
required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the members and by a
majority of votes of not less than two thirds of the members
present and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provision of this Act or any other written law, for all or any
of the following matter:–
(a) the classification of membership, admission,
withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of members
and membership payable;
(b) the procedure to be followed at the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Board of Directors,
and Corporation, the quorum for shuch meetings
and the exercise and performance of their powers
and duties;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions of
the various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(d) the qualification required to become a member of
the Corporation and of the Board of Directors; and
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation;
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) Every member of the Corporation shall be subject to
rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted, and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to
Rules of the
Corporation,
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
30
the Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation
for the purpose of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own Fund. All
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of gift,
bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or grants
for and on account of the Corporation shall be deposited to
the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Corporation,
all such sums of money as may be required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Corporation in the exercise,
performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions
under this Act.
9. The Coporation shall be able and capable in law, to
take and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in its by virtue of any purchase grant,
lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all
such property shall be held by the Corporation for the
purposes of this Act, and subject to the rules in force for the
tme being of the Corporation with full power to sell,
mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
10. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be
due form him to the Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing
any income or property among its or their members. Such
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Fund of
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 7 -->

Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
5
10
15
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by
a qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
(4) In this section "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certified to practice as Accountant issued by the
Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners,
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law possesses a certificate
to practice as Accountant issued by the council of
such Institute.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
Chairman and a member of the Board who shall sign their
names on the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
Seal of the
Corporation.
20
Accounts and
Audit of the
Corporation.
25
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

Lakshman Wasantha Perera Community
Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .