

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1315
1315
wxl 1"870 - 2014 cQ,s 04 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'07'04
No. 1,870 – FRIDAY , JULY 04, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1318
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1324
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th July, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th July,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.—   Parts II and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,869 of 27.06.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1316
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1317
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1318
Posts – Vacant
AMENDMENT
SRI  LANKA  POLICE   DEPARTMENT
Police Recruiting Office
Post of Woman Police Sub Inspector and the Post of
Woman Police Constable
THE final date of receiving applications for the posts mentioned
above under Section I Section II(A) of the Gazette dated 11.04.2014
and the Gazette No. 1,858 will be extended upto 31.07.2014.
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01,
18th June, 2014.
07–85
––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Recruitment of Graduate Teachers of Class 3 Grade I of
the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service for Teaching the Subject
of Physical Education - 2014
RECRUITMENT of Graduate Teachers for teaching the subject of
Physical Education for the task of best owing a physically and
mentally balanced healthy generation to the nation and for the
production of Sportsmen and Sportswomen out of persons having
talents in sports.
1. Qualifications for the recruitment :
1.1 Educational Qualifications related to the Post :
(i) Having passed 6 core subjects in not more than two
sittings with three (03) credit passes having passed
Mother Language and Mathematics at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination or having obtianed the other
qualifications deemed equal to such qualifications by
the Commissioner General of Examinations : should
have passed a minimum of five (05) core subjects in
the first sitting.
The core subjects are : (i) Religion (ii) First Language
(iii) English (iv) Mathematics (v) Aesthetics (Arts/
Dancing/Music/Drama and Theatre/Literature (Sinhala/
Tamil/English/Arabic) (vi) Science and Technology (vii)
Social Studies and History (viii) Technical Subject
(Agriculture/Business and Accountancy/Handicraft
Industry)
And
(ii) Passing a minimum of 03 subjects in one sitting at the
G . C. E. (A/L) Examination ;
And
(iii) Having obtained a degree on the relevant subject from
a university recognized by the University Grants
Commission or from an Institution recognized by the
University Grants Commission as an Institute of
awarding Degrees.
1.2 General Qualifications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be of a good moral character and should have a
sound mental and physical fitness ;
(iii) Should be not less than 21 years and should not be
more than 35 years as at 18.07.2014 which is the day
of calling applications.
2. Method of Recruitment and Service Conditions :
2.1 Eligible persons to be recruited for the vacancies existing
in the Post of Teachers will be selected by a structured
interview conducted by the Appointing Authority for
recruiting applicants for the service from among the
applicants who has responded the notification. The
applicants who have not yet completed the qualifications
indicated in this notification will not be called for the
interview.
2.2 Action will be taken to provide a register prepared by
indicating the vacancies in the national schools for the
appointees who have qualified from the interview for
naming five schools closest to their residences respectively
for which they are willing to get their appointments in
relation to the subject they have fulfilled the necessary
qualifications.
Note.– The order of preferences of the schools provided
by the applicants as per each subject will be given the
priority. In case where preferences are more than the
number of vacancies in relation to the subject taught at
the school, the priority will be given to the order of
marks obtained at the Structured Interview. In case
where several applicants have obtained equal marks
and have requested the same school, the priority will
be given on the basis of the distance to the school. The
recruitment of eligible applicants will be made on those
criteria.
2.3 The selected applicants will be appointed to the Grade
3-1 of the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service subjected to the
General Conditions which govern the appointments of the
Government, the conditions stipulated in the Sri Lanka

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1319
Teachers' Service Minute and to the amendments made
and to be made in the future to the Service Minute. As per
the Public Administration Circular No. 6/2006(IV) dated
24.08. 2007, the monthly salary scale entitled for the Post
is the salary segment bearing No. TS-1-2006A (Rs. 14,135
-180x9 -240x6 -330x5 - 400x7 - 645 x13 - Rs. 30,030
monthly). You will be placed in the monthly salary of
Rs. 15,395 which is the 8th step of the salary scale.
2.4 This post is permanent and pensionable.
2.5 Promotions will be made under the Sri Lanka Teachers'
Service Minute.
2.6 These appointments are subject to the procedure of
transfers of the Sri Lanka Teachers' Service.
3. The method of applying :
3.1 The application form should be in conformity with the
specimen application provided in the notification and it
should be filled by the applicant himself after preparing it
on both sides of an A4 size paper.
3.2 The accurately perfected applications should be sent by
the Registered Post to reach the Secretary, Ministry of
Education, Pelawatte, Battaramulla on or before 18.07.2014.
"Recruitment to Grade 3-1 of the Sri Lanka Teachers'
Service for the subjects of Physical Education" should be
compulsorily stated at the top left hand corner of the
envelope enclosing the applications.
4. Acknowledgement of the applications will not be made. The
Ministry shall not take the responsibility of the applications lost in
the post.
5. Applications received after the last date will not be entertained.
6. Applications which are not in conformity with the directions
and the relevant format indicated in this notification will be rejected
without notice.
7. Applications having certified by the Head of the Institution
should be submitted by the applicants who are already in the service.
8. The Secretary to the Ministry of Education reserves the right
of determining any matter not covered in the notification or the right
of filling or not filling any vacancy partially or fully.
S
CHEDULE NO. 1
A demonstration should be conducted for five minutes in relation
to the topic provided by the Board of Interview according to the
Subject of Sports.
Marking Scheme Marks
Aim/access to the lesson 10
Effort to draw the attention of the child 10
Accomplishment of the aim 10
V oice control, appearance, movement and personality 10
Time Management 10
Total Marks 10
Special Skills :
International and All-Ceylon talents in sports 30
Other talents in sports 20
Note.– In considering talents in sports, only the talents shown in
Divisional, Zonal and Provincial Level are considered.
Total Marks are 100.
ANURA DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla,
07th April, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION
For office use
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
RECRUITMENT OF GRADUA TE TEACHERS TO GRADE 3-1 OF THE SRI LANKA
TEACHERS' SERVICE FOR TEACHING PHYSICAL EDUCA TION - 2014
01. 1.1 Name with initials indicating initials at the end (in English
block capitals) (Eg.– PERERA, A. B.) :–––––––––––.
1.1.1 Name with initials (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
1.2 Names indicated by initials (in English block capitals) :
–––––––––––.
1.2.1 Names indicated by initials (in Sinhala) :––––––––––.
02. Present Address (English Capital Letters) :–––––––––––.
2.1 Present Addres (in Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
2.2.1 District where the applicant is permanently residing :
–––––––––––.
Province :–––––––––––.
03. Male/Female (Female - 1,  Male - 0)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.1 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1320
3.2 Age as at 18.07.2014 :
Years : Months : Days :
3.3 National Identity Card Number :
3.5 Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
Mobile :–––––––––––.
3.5 E-mail Address :–––––––––––.
04. Particulars regarding Educational Qualifications :
4.1 G . C. E. (O/Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.
Examination Number :–––––––––––.
Subjects Pass Subjects Pass
1. ................. ................. 5. ................... .................
2. ................. ................. 6. ................... .................
3. ................. ................. 7. ................... .................
4. ................. ................. 8. ................... .................
4.2 G . C. E. (A/Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––.
Examination Number :–––––––––––.
Subjects Pass
1. ....................... .......................
2. ....................... .......................
3. ....................... .......................
4. ....................... .......................
05. Higher Educational Qualifications :
5.1 Degree that has been obtained :–––––––––––.
5.2 University :–––––––––––.
5.3 Valid date of the Degree :–––––––––––.
5.4 Major Subject/Subjects studied for the Degree :
5.5 Medium in whic h the Degree has been obtained :––––––––.
5.6 Other Higher Educational Qualifications :–––––––––––.
5.7 International and All-Ceylon talents in Sports :–––––––––.
I, declare that the information furnished here are true according to
my knowledge and belief. I know that I will be dismissed from the
Service if they found that I am unsuitable subsequent to selection to
the Post. Any information furnished here will not be altered later.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
06. The Certification of the Head of the Department if the applicant is
a government servant :
I am forwarding the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................
I would like to inform that he is employed in this Ministry/Department
as a permanent/temporary/casual employee and that, if he/she is
selected for this post he/she can/cannot be released from service.
–––––––––––––,
Head of Department or
Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Post :–––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
07–156
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  LANDS  AND  LAND
DEVELOPMENT – SURVEY DEPARTMENT
Public Service Commission
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER
(GRADE III OF EXECUTIVE SERVICE CATEGORY) ON
OPEN BASIS
APPLICATIONS are invited from Citizens of Sri Lankan who
have fulfilled following qualifications for the post of leagal officer
in Survey Department.
01. Method of Recruitment.– Candidates who have obtained the
highest marks on a result of a structured interview conducted by an
interview board appointed by Public Services Commission or, of
the applicants who have fulfilled qualifications prescribed in the
Gazette notification will be recruited as per existing number of
vacancies. Structured interview will be conducted in terms of the
marking scheme approved by the Public Service Commission
(mentioned under No. 6).
02. Qualifications Required  :–
(i) Educational/Professional :
LLB Degree in a university recognized by the University
Grant Commission/having made oath as an Attorney-at-
Law of the Supreme Court.
(ii) Experience :
Should have active professional experience less than three
years after having made oath as an Attorney-at-Law of
the Supreme Court.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1321
(iii) Physical fitness :
Every candidate should be physically and mentally sound so as to serve in any part of the island and discharge duties in
the post.
(iv) Other :
· Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
· Should be of excellent moral character ;
· Requisite qualifications for this post should have been completed every aspect as at the closing date of application.
03. Service occupying conditions and service conditions :
(i) The post is permanent and pensionable. Selected applicants should contribute to the Widow's/Widower's and Orphans
Pension's Scheme.
(ii) Appointment is subject to 03 years probation period. Selected candidates to the post of legal officer Grade III should
pass the First Efficiency Bar Examination within 03 years of the appointment as per prescribed in recruitment procedure.
(iii) Should acquire require proficiency in other official language in additional to the language in which the officer joined the
service within 5 years from entering the service in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007 and incidental
circulars and the officers who joined the service not in a medium of official language should acquire prescribed official
language proficiency within the probation period.
(vi) This appointment is subject to the procedural rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishment Code of Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Government Financial Regulations Departmental other orders.
04. Age limit.– The applicant should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years  as at the closing date of applications.
05. Salary Scale.– The monthly salary scale of Rs. 22,935 -10x645 -8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 is entitled to this post. (SL
1-2006 salary group in P. A. C. No. 6/2006 dated 25.04.2006)
 06. The following marking scheme is based for the structured interivew  :
Subject Maximum marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications :2 0
A degree in Law from a recognized University
– For First Class 20
– For Second Class (upper) 15
– For Third Class (lower) 10
For a First Class in the final year of Law College 15
For a Second Class the final year of Law College 10
Note : 10 marks should be granted only if the final year examination pass with an honor
(Marks will be granted only for maximum qualification either the degree or
Law College qualification.)
02 Additional Professional Qualifications :1 5
For a Post Graduate Diploma of not less than one year in relevant field or post Graduate
Diploma in law awarded by a recognized institute
(05 marks for one diploma)
For a diploma course of not less than six months in relevant field awarded by
a recognized institute
(03 marks for one course)

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1322
03 Additional Experience : 30
Experience as an Attorney-at-Law in government or private sector.
More than 06 months and less than one year
2 marks - maximum 30 marks
5 marks per one year
(Except three years service period engaged in as an Attorney-at-Law to obtaine
basic qualifications)
Additional experience should be confirmed by a certificate obtained by an Attorney-at-law
or president's counsel or judge who have completed not less than 20 years of service
04 Computer literacy : 15
Should have studied information technology as a main subject for degree in a university 15
recognized by University Grants Commission
For a Diploma Course of technology not less than 01 year or 1500 hours in a government 10
recognized institute
For a certificate course in Information Technology in a Government recognized institute
06 months/720 hours 07
03 months/360 hours 05
05 Proficiency in English Language :1 5
Post Graduate Degree/degree/Post LLB Degree/LLB Degree in English medium 15
(All relevant question papers should have been answered in English medium)
For Diploma in English language in a University recognized by the University Grant 10
Commission or Government recognized institution
(01 year or 1500 hours)
For a Certificate Course in English language in a University recognized by University Grants
Commission or Government recognized institution
06 months/720 hours 07
03 months/360 hours 05
06 Marks given for skill at the interview 05
Total marks 100
07. Identity of candidates. – Only the applicants who have submitted complete applications in every aspect will be invited for
the structured interview.
Originals of all certificates and duly certified copies should be submitted in the interview.
The following identity card will be accepted to confirm the identity in the interview :
1. National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Person ;
2. Valid Passport.
08. ( a) Applications should be sent by registered post to reach the following address on or before 04.08.2014. Applications
received after the due date will be rejected :
Surveyor General,
Survey Department,
No. 150, Narahenpita,
Colombo 05.
Subject Maximum marks

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1323
(b) A specimen of the application is indicated at the end of
this notification. Applicants should prepare their
applications in an A4 paper and No. 01 to 06 should be on
page 01, No. 07 to 10 should be on page 02, No. 11 to 12.2
should be on page 03 and the applications should be filled
in their own hand writing ;
(c) The envelope containing the application should be clearly
marked "Application to the post of Legal Officer in Survey
Department" ;
(d) The signature of the applicant in the application should
be certified by a principal of a government school/Justice
of Peace/a Commissioner of Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/
Notary Public/Commissioned Officer in Army/or an officer
who holds a permanent post in Public Service and obtains
Rs. 22,935 monthly consolidated salary ;
(e) Candidates who are already employed in public service
should forward their applications through their Heads of
Department ;
(f) Applications which are not complying with the specimen
application from herewith, will be rejected. Complaints
on loss of application or delated application will not be
accepted.
09. Furnishing false Information .– If any of the particulars
furnished by you is found to be false or incorrect, your candidature
will be cancelled.
If it is found to be after the recruitment, action will be taken to
dismiss from the service subject to the relevant procedures.
Right to fill or not to fill the vacancies owned by the Public
Service Commission.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Land and Land Development.
Battaramulla.
S
PECIMEN APPLICATION
RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF LEGAL OFFICER WHICH REMAINS VACANT IN
THE SURVEY DEPARTMENT
(For office use only)
01. Name with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss) :––––––––––––.
In Sinhala :––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
01.1 Names denoted by initials (in legible letters) :––––––––.
In Sinhala :––––––––––.
In English :––––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Year :––––––––––.
03.1 Age as at the closing date of application :
Date :––––––––––,  Month :––––––––––,  Year :––––––––––.
04. Gender :
Male - M Female - F)
05. Permanent address (In legible letters) :––––––––––.
06. Telephone No. :
Permanent :––––––––––.
Mobile :––––––––––.
07. Educational Qualifications :
07.1 Details of G . C. E. (A/L) exam :
(i) Year and month of the examination :––––––––––.
(ii) Index No. :––––––––––.
(iii) Subjects passed :
Table No. 03
Subject Grade
1.
2.
3.
4.
07.2 Details of the degree obtained :
(i) University :––––––––––.
(ii) Year of degree :––––––––––.
(iii) Degree :––––––––––.
08. Experiences :
(i) Period worked as an Attorney-at-Law of a Supreme
Court :––––––––––.
09. Have you ever been convicted in a Court of Law for any offence :
Yes N o
09.1 If yes, give details :––––––––––.
10. Certificate of the Candidate :
(a) I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and correct to the best of my
knowledge.
(b) I am aware that, if this declaration made by me is found
to be wrong, I would  be considered unfit for the
appointment and would be liable to dismissal from the
service.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1324
(c) I shall not subsequently change any of the particulars
mentioned here.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
11. Certification of signature of the applicant :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................. who is
submitting the application is personally known to me and that he/
she placed his/her signature under the section 10 above.
––––––––––––,
Signature of Attester.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name of the Attester :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(By affixing the official seal)
12. Recommendation of the Head of the Department (only for the
applicant who are in Public/Provincial Public Services) :
12.1 According to the personal file of the officer during the
five year immediate prior to the closing date of
application,
Work behavior, attendance, satisfactory/unsatisfactory
All salary increments have been earned/have not been
earned
Has not been/has been subject to any disciplinary
action.
12.2 If selected to the post, applied this officer can be/cannot
be released from the post he holds at present.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :––––––––––––.
07–155
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
Recruitment of Students to the Training for the Post of
Dispenser (Open) in Sri Lanka Technical Service - 2014
APPLICATIONS are invited from applicants who possess
following qualifications to recruit to the training for Dispensers
under the Ministry of Health up to 08.08.2014.
Eligible persons will be selected for the training on the basis of
merits obtained from the open competitive examination conducted
by the Ministry of Health.
02. Educational Qualifications  :
(a) Should have passed 6 subjects with credit passes for
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics, Science and
one other subject in one sitting at the G .C.E. (O.L.)
examination ;
and
(b) Should have passed 3 subjects including Chemistry in the
Science stream in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A.L.)
examination.
3. A competitive examination will be held for the applicants
who possess required qualifications and those who obtain higher
marks at the competitive examination will be selected for the training
after an interview. Trainees who complete the training course will
be selected considering the number of vacancies easting in Hospitals
and institutes under the Line Ministry and Provincial Councils.
3.1 Period of training is one year. (This includes a theoretical
training of nine months and a piratical training of three
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
months.) Trainees will be appointed to the post of
Dispenser - Grade 111 after the period of training.
3.2 Trainees admitted to the training will be subject to the
rules and regulations prevail in the training schools and
orders imposed by the Ministry of Health from time to
time. Training of those who fail the prescribed
examinations, whose work and conduct are not
satisfactory or who fail to conform to terms and conditions
of examination and leave in the training school, may be
terminated without compensation at any time.
3.3 At the time he/she is admitted to the training school, he/
she should enter into an agreement with the Director
General of Health Services that he/she will complete the
training successfully, not abandon the training course and
serve in the hospitals /institutes under the Ministry of
Health and Provincial Councils for a period of at least 5
years if an appointment is granted after completing the
said training. If he/ she resigns from the training or abandon
the training within the period of training or his/her training
is terminated as per above section 3.2, he/she should
refund to the Ministry of Health the amount of allowance
aid to him/her and the expenses incurred on him/her by
the Government during the period of training. If not,
actions will be taken to recover the said amount as per
the agreement.
3.4 This course is a full time course. Therefore those who
follow any full time course of a University, or Ministry
of Health or any other government institute in the daytime
on the week days or Saturdays should not apply for this.
If it will be found to have so applied by someone, he/she

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1325
will be dismissed from the course/post and all expenses
incurred by the Government up to that, will be  recovered.
04. Other Qualifications  :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should possess a good character ;
(iii) Should be fit physically and mentally ;
(iv) Should be a continuous resident in the district from which
he/she is applying for a period of 3 years immediately
prior to the closing date of applications.
05. Scheme of Examination :
Intelligence Test - 100 marks
Subject related technical test - 100 marks
5.1 For the examination, two question papers which contain
questions relevant to Mathematics, Comprehension,
intelligence test and Chemistry will be given. 40% marks
or more should be obtained to pass one subject Aggregated
marks of the two subjects will be considered.
06. Salary Scale :
Training period. - Allowance will be paid in terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006(II).
Grade III. - Rs. 15,005 -4x180 -6x240 - 11x320 -20x360 -
Rs. 27,885. MN-3-2006(A) (In terms of Public
Administration Circular No. 06/2006(iv)).
07. Age limit .– Applicants should be Sri Lankan citizens who
are not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age by
08.08.2014.
08. Terms of Engagement.– Officers recruited should be willing
to serve in any part of the island.
This post is permanent. He/she should contribute to the Widows
and Orphans Pension Fund.
09.Applications from the officers in the Public Service / Semi -
government institutes should be forwarded through the respective
Head of Department / Institute.
10. Applications not conforming with the requirements of the
advertisement will be rejected.
11.The receipt of the applications will not be acknowledged.
Applications received after the closing date of applications will be
rejected.
12.Eligible candidates will be called for examination and informed
the same to the addressed mentioned in the application two weeks
prior to the examination. Particulars regarding examination will be
uploaded to the website 
www.Health gov.lk in due course.
13. Method of Application :
(a) Applications prepared in compliance with the specimen
form appended to this should be sent under registered
cover to the following address and not personally to any
officer.
(b) Closing date of applications is 08.08.2014.
(c) The words "Recruitment to the Training for the Post of
Dispenser - 2014" should be mentioned on the top left
hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
(d) Examination Fees :
Examination fee is Rs. 300. The receipt obtained from
any branch of Bank of Ceylon by paying this amount to
the credit of the account of Director General of Health
Services No. 0007040244 of the Bank of Ceylon
Thaprobane Branch should be affixed on the cage given
under No. 13 in the specimen form of application.
(Money orders and stamps will be rejected).
Address .– Director (Admin) 06, Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya", No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero
Mawatha, Colombo 10.
14.  Attestation of the Signature .– Signature of the applicant
should be attested by an officer in the Sri Lanka Administrative
Service / Educational Administrative Service / Government
Accountant' Service / a Principal of a Government school / a Justice
of the Peace / an Attorney at Law or an officer who holds a permanent
and pensionable post in the public service and obtains a consolidated
salary of not less than Rs. 240,360 per annum.
N. B.–
y It should be certified that every section of the application
is perfected and such particulars are accurate.
y All candidates recruited as mentioned above will be subject
all to rules and regulations applicable to public servants,
provisions of the Establishments Code, provisions and
rules of the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Technical Service,
policies stipulated by the Ministry of Health, Financial
Regulations and other regulations and rules, regulations
and orders imposed by the Government from time to
time.
y In case of a problem with regard to any fact covered or
uncovered by this Gazette notification, the decision of
the Secretary to the Ministry of Health will be final. In
the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala
texts will prevail.
y You have no right to engage in trade union an activities or
private practice during the period of training. And, you
have also no right to engage in private practice after

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1326
appointment, if an appointment is grantated at the end of
the training.lf it will be found to have done so, legal actions
will be taken.
S
UDHARMA KARUNARATHNA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Health.
Ministry of Health,
"Suwasiripaya",
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
09th June, 2014.
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
R
ECRUITMENT OF STUDENTS TO THE TRAINING FOR THE POST OF
DISPENSER (OPEN) IN SRI LANKA TECHNICAL SERVICE - 2014
Medium in which you sit for the Examination :
Sinhala - S
Tamil - T
English - E
District you prefer to sit for the examination :
01
02
03
01. (i) Last name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In capital letters)
(ii) Full name in capital letters :–––––––––––.
02. Permanent Address and District :–––––––––––.
.
03. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
04. Whether citizen of Sri Lanka :–––––––––––.
05. Gender :–––––––––––.
06. District of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
07. Electorate :–––––––––––.
08. Date and place of Birth :–––––––––––.
Age as at 08.08.2014 :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
09. Civil States :–––––––––––.
10. Medium of Examination by which the candidate was qualified
:–––––––––––.
11. Educational Qualifications:
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) Examination :
First Attempt :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade
01
02
03
04
(c) Other Special Qualifications and Experience :––––––––––.
12. Have you been convicted before a Court of Law ? (If yes, give
particulars) :–––––––––––.
13. I here by declare that the particulars furnished by in this
application are true and correction. I am also aware that if any
particulars contained here in are found to be false or incorrect
before selection the application will be cancelled and if so found
after selection I am liable to be dismissed without any
compensation.
Affix below the receipt obtained by paying the relevant fee of
Rs. 300 to a Bank of Ceylon branch so as not be detached
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
14. Attestation of the Signature :
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss..................... Who submit this
application is personally known to me and he/she placed his/her
Signature in my presence.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer Attesting.
Date :–––––––––––.
Full name of the Officer who is attesting :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
(Authenticate with the Rubber stamp)
Address :–––––––––––.
07–224

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1327
AMENDMENT
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Mass Media and Information
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION (LIMITED/OPEN) FOR RECRUITMENT TO EXECUTIVE SERVICE CADRE, CLASS I
GRADE III IN THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING
EXTENDING THE CLOSING DATE OF CALLING APPLICATIONS
I, hereby inform the closing date of calling applications for the Competitive Examination (Limited/Open) for Recruitment to Exe cutive
Service Cadre, Class I Grade III published in the Gazette No. 1,866 on 06.06.2014 has extended. The closing date of calling applications has
extended upto 21.07.2014.
CHARITHA HERATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Mass Media and Information.
07–379

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1328
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'07'04
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2014
1329
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2014
JULY 04.07.2014 Friday — 20.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
11.07.2014 Friday –– 27.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
18.07.2014 Friday –– 04.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
25.07.2014 Friday –– 11.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 01.08.2014 Friday — 18.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2014 Friday –– 25.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
15.08.2014 Friday –– 01.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
22.08.2014 Friday –– 08.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
29.08.2014 Friday –– 15.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 05.09.2014 Friday — 22.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
12.09.2014 Friday –– 29.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
19.09.2014 Friday –– 05.09.2014 Friday 12 noon
26.09.2014 Friday –– 12.09.2014 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2014.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.