

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1129
1129
wxl 1"816 - 2013 cqks 21 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'06'21
No. 1,816 – FRIDAY JUNE 21, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1132
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1136
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 12th July, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 28th June,
2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Note.—  (i) Jayanthipura Subasadaka Sangamaya (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 27, 2011.
(ii) Piya Dasuna Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 27, 2011.
(iii) Swabhimani Daham Saviya (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 27, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1130
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1131
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1132
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  JUSTICE
Open  Recruitment  to  the  Post  of Bunglow Keeper in
Nuwara-Eliya and Rakwana Circuit Bungalows
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens with under mentioned
qualifications for recruitment to two posts of Bungalow Keeper in
the Nuwara-Eliya and Rakwana Circuit Bungalows under the
Ministry of Justice.
01. Educational Qualifications. – Should have passed G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination in not more than two sittings in six subjects
with two credits passes.
02. Professional Qualifications.– Should have acquired not less
than second or third level proficiency in NVQ from an institute
recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission
under the subjects ; reception of guests, preparation of foods and
offering refreshments, interior and exterior decorations of the circuit
bungalows.
03. Experience.– Should posses 2 years experience relevant to
the post obtained from a recognized institution (should be supported
by certificates).
04. Physical fitness.– Every applicant should be in good mental
and physical order to serve in any part of the island and to discharge
the duties and functions of the post.
05. Other :–
(i) Applicant should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Applicants should bear an excellent moral character ;
(iii) Applicant should have fulfilled all qualifications (from 1
- 4) required for recruitment to the post at the closing
date of applications. Copies of the certificates should be
attached to the application to confirm the qualifications.
Applicants, those who have not attached the copies of
the relevant certificates will not be called for the interview.
06. Age limit.– Should not be less than 18 years of age and not
more than 45 years at the closing date of application. (The maximum
age limit will not apply to those already in the state service).
07. Salary Scale.– PL 2-2006(A) Rs. 12,210 - 10x130 - 10x 145
- 10x160 - 12x170 - Rs. 18,600 per month.
08. Method of Recruitment. – Recruitment will be made on a
practical test and a structural interview.
09. Nature of the duties :
1. Receiving the guests and maintaining the records of the
guests ;
2. Preparation of foods and offering refreshments ;
3. Custody of kitchen appliances including furniture and
the garden ;
4. Maintaining the circuit bungalow and the garden neatly
and orderly ;
5. Other duties assigned by the Head of the Institution.
10. Terms of Engagement :
(a) This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected
candidates will be required to make contributions to the
Widows'/Widowers' and Orphan's Pension Scheme.
11. The application should be in the specimen form mentioned
in this notification and duly completed application forms should be
sent to reach the following address on or before 19.07.2013 by
registered post. The words 
“post of Bunglow Keeper ” should be
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope containing the
application. The applicants in the public service should send their
applications through the Head of the Department/Institution, he or
she is attached to.
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice,
Superior Courts Complex,
Colombo 12.
12. Marking scheme at the practical test :
Subjects Maximum Pass
Marks Marks
1. Basic knowledge relevant to the field 20
2. Knowledge on fixing and repairing of 20
instruments
3. Knowledge on identifying the defects 40 Not
of the related instruments applicable
4. Knowledge on usage of the related 20
instruments
Total 100
13. Marking scheme at the structural interview :
Criteria considered for Maximum Pass
marks upon inspection Marks Mark
1. Additional Educational Qualifications 15
2. Additional experience 60
3. Additional Professional Qualifications 20 Not
4. Skills and the personality shown at 05 applicable
the interview
Total 100

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1133
Note.– A number equal to three fold of the existing vacancies
will be called for the structural interview from among the
candidates who have obtained highest marks at the
practical test. Applicants who have obtained highest marks
at the above two tests will be recruited in accordance
with the existing vacancies and on merit basis.
14. Application should be duly completed. Applications received
after the closing date will be rejected without notice, complaints on
application or related documents lost in the mail will not be
considered.
15. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification. If the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after selection.
Any matter not provided for here will be determined by the
Secretary to the Ministry of Justice.
K
AMALINI DE SILV A,
Secretary,
Ministry of Justice.
Colombo 12,
27th May, 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
OPEN RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF BUNGALOW KEEPER IN
NUWARA-ELIY A AND RAKWANA CIRCUIT BUNGALOWS UNDER THE
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
No. : .......................
(For office use only)
01. Full name in Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
English :–––––––––––.
02. Name with initials in Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
English :–––––––––––.
03. Private Address in Sinhala/Tamil :–––––––––––.
English :–––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
05. Age as at the closing date of application :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. Sex :–––––––––––.
08. Whether married or not :–––––––––––.
09. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
G . C. E. (Ordinary Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
G . C. E. (Advanced Level) Examination :
Year :–––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
11. Professional Qualifications :––––––––––.
(As mentioned in the notice for calling applications)
12. Experience :––––––––––.
(As mentioned in the notice for calling applications)
13. Other qualifications :––––––––––.
14. I declare that the particulars furnished by me in this application
are true and correct. I am also aware that, if any particulars
contained herein are found to be false or incorrect. I am liable to
disqualification, if detected before selection and to dismissal
without compensation, if detected after appointment.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................... is serving
in this Ministry/Department as a permanent/temporary/casual
............................ and that all the information given by him/her is
correct according to his/her personal file and she/he has/have been
subjected to any form of disciplinary action and he/she can be/
cannot be released if selected for this post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department,
(Official Seal).
Date :––––––––––.
06–471
––––––––––––––––
NATIONAL  EDUCATION  COMMISSION
Recruitments
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible Sri Lankan citizens for
five posts of the National Education Commission.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1134
01. Common Conditions :
(i) The applicant must have an excellent character.
(ii) The applicant should not a person who have convicted
for an offence by a Court of Law.
(iii) The age should not be less than 18 years and should not
be over than 40 years for the closing date of applications.
(This age limit is not applicable for the applicants who
are from government/semi-government sector).
(iv) The applicants should strong enough physically and
mentally to provide a productive service at any part of
the country.
02. Service Conditions.– These posts are permanent and eligible
for EPF and ETF. The appointments are subject to a three year
period of probation.
All the rules and regulations are applicable as per the relevant
public sector conditions.
The positions will be filled through a systematic process on the
basis of service requirements.
03. Details of positions :
3.1 Designation.– Policy Research Officer.
3.1.1 Salary Scale.– AR-1-2006A : (Rs. 24,725 -5x550 -
5x645 -15x770 - Rs. 42,250).
3.1.2 Qualifications :-
(a) (i) A four year special degree in Statistics,
Management, Sociology or Economics with a
first class or a second class upper division from
a university recognized by the UGC ;
or
(ii) A four year special degree in Statistics,
Management, Sociology or Economics from a
university recognized by the UGC and one year
post graduate diploma in education ;
or
(iii) A degree in Statistics, Management, Sociology
or Economics from a university recognized by
the UGC and two years (research) Master
Degree.
(b) (i) The experience in research and survey will be a
special qualification. The education, research
and survey experience in the relevant field with
be an advantage.
(ii) Proficiency in English will be an addition
qualification.
3.2 Designation.– Programme Officer (Policy/Planning) :
3.2.1 Salary Scale.– MA-4-2006A - (Rs. 18,230 -10x365
- 15x450 - 5x550 - Rs. 31,380).
3.2.2 Qualifications :-
(a) A degree in a following subject from a university
recognized by the UGC (Education, Management,
Information Technology, Computer Science,
Mathematics, Library Science, Statistics or
Sociology)
(b) Additional Qualifications :
(i) Experience in Research and Survey.
(ii) Experience on Computer Software Applications
in projects and programmes.
(iii) Proficiency in English.
3.3 Designation.– Programme Officer (Information).
3.3.1 Salary Scale.– MA-4-2006A - (Rs. 18,230 -10x365
- 15x450 - 5x550 - Rs. 31,380).
3.3.2 Qualifications :-
(a) A degree in a following subject from a university
recognized by the UGC (Education, Management,
Information Technology, Computer Science,
Mathematics, Library Science, Statistics or
Sociology)
(b) Additional Qualifications :
(i) Experience in Research and Survey.
(ii) Experience on Computer Software Applications
in projects and programmes.
(iii) Proficiency in English.
3.4 Designation.– Administrative Officer.
3.4.1 Salary Scale.– JM-1-1-2006A (Rs. 20,525 -10x365
-18x550 - Rs. 34,075).
3.4.2 Qualifications :-
(i) Five years satisfactory level service record in the
position of programme Assistant (Finance) in
the service category of implementation/
consultancy ;
or
(ii) Five years satisfactory level service record in the
position of Management Assistant (Non-
Technical) service class I.
(iii) Higher knowledge on Financial Regulations and
Establishment Code will be an additional
qualification.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1135
3.5 Designation.– Management Assistant :
3.5.1 Salary Scale.– MA-1-1-2006A - (Rs. 13,450 -10x145
- 7x170 -4x240 - 20x320 - Rs. 23,450).
3.5.2 Qualifications :-
(a) G . C. E. (O/L) Six (06) subjects in one sitting with
four credit passes for Language (Sinhala/Tamil/
English), Mathematics and two other subjects.
(b) G . C. E. (A/L) three subjects (Except the general
test) in one sitting.
(c) One year diploma in computer application from a
public sector institution recognized by TVEC
(Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission).
Special Qualifications :
(i) A diploma not less than one year on accountancy from a
government recognized institution will be an additional
qulaification (for accounts division).
(ii) Successful completion of the foundation examination of
Sri Lanka Library Association or Library Science
Certificate examination from a recognized University of
Sri Lanka will be an additional qualification (for Library
and Information Data Bank).
4. Method of Application.– Applicants from government/semi-
government sector should proceed the applications through the
Head of Institution.
The closing date for applications is 19.07.2013. Applications
receive after the closing date will not be considered.
Duly completed applications should be forwarded under
Registered cover to reach the following address on or before
19.07.2013 Chairman, National Education Commission, No. 126,
Nawala Road, Nugegoda.
The post of applying should be appeared at top left corner of
the envelope.
The NEC has the authority to fill, not to fill or to partially fill
the vacancies available.
Only the applicants who have completed the basic qualifications
will be considered for the recruitment process.
Prof. C. L. V . J
AYA TILLEKE,
Chairman,
National Education Commission.
No. 126, Nawala Road,
Nugegoda.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICA TION FOR THE POST OF ................................. AT NATIONAL
EDUCATION COMMISSION
1. 1.1. Full Name :–––––––––––.
1.2. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs. :–––––––––––.
2. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
3. NIC Number :–––––––––––.
4. 4.1. Date of birth :
Year :––––––––,  Month :––––––––, Date :––––––––.
4.2 Age for the closing date :
Years :–––––––,  Months :–––––––,  Days :–––––––.
5. Gender :–––––––––––.
6. Source of citizenship (by birth or registered) :–––––––––––.
7. Educational qualifications :
7.1 Details of the Post-Graduate Qualification (if applicable)
:–––––––––––.
7.2 Degree :–––––––––––.
University :–––––––––––.
Year and medium of the degree :–––––––––––.
Degree subjects :–––––––––––.
External or Internal :–––––––––––.
7.3 G . C. E. (A/L) :
Subject Pass
7.4 G . C. E. (O/L) :
Subject Pass
8. Additional qualifications :–––––––––––.
9. Professional qualifications :–––––––––––.
10. Service experience :–––––––––––.
11. I do hereby state that the particulars furnished by me in the
application are true and accurate to the best of my knowledge.
I agree to bear the punishments including loss of the post

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1136
resulted from submission of incomplete and incorrect
information.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
12. Certificate of the Head of Department (for applications in the
service already) :
I do hereby certify that Mr./Mrs. ........................... is employed
this institution as a ............................ The details he/she is providing
herewith are correct. If he/she will be selected for the position he/
she can be/cannot be released. There is no disciplinary action on the
process against him/her. The application is recommended/not
recommended.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and Stamp.
Date :–––––––––––.
06–564
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME  AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Technical Officer (Grade III) of Sri Lanka
Technological Service to be appointed for the service at
District Secretariat/ Office of the Government Agent and
Divisional Secretariats - 2013
01. APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified Sri Lanka
citizens for the open competitive examination held for recruitment
to above posts.
02. On the results of a written test conducted by Commissioner
General of Examinations, candidates who have proved their
qualifications on merit will be selected for appointment to the
posts in Grade III of Technical Officer or Posts in Training Grade
in Sri Lanka Technological Service to be attached to District
Secretariats/ Office of the Government Agent and Divisional
Secretariats under Ministry of Public Administration & Home
Affairs.
03. Age Limit.– Candidates should be not less than 18 years and
not more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications.
However, the maximum age limit will not be applicable for the
candidates who are already in Public or Provincial Public Service.
04. (a)  Grade III :
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should pass GCE (O/L) in not more than two sitting, in
six subjects with credit passes for language or literature,
mathematics, science and one other subject.
(ii) Sho uld pass GCE (A/L) in one and the same sitting, in
three subjects including Pure Mathematics/ Applied
Mathematics/ Combined Mathematics and Physics.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
Professional Qualifications. – Candidates should have obtained
one of the following professional qualifications along with
educational qualifications mentioned in 04(a) above.
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by University
of Moratuwa or Hardy Institution in Ampara ;
or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority ;
or
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by
Ministry of Education & Higher Education ;
or
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University
of Sri Lanka ;
or
(v) Successful completion of part I of the Engineering
Examination conducted by Sri Lanka Engineering Institute ;
or
(vi) Other qualifications recognized by Sri Lanka Technological
Services Board as equivalent to above technological
qualifications.
    (b) Training Grade :
Educational Qualifications :
Should pass GCE (A/L) in one and the same sitting, in
three Science subjects including two subjects relevant
to the field and should pass GCE (O/L) in not more
than two sitting, in six subjects with credit passes for
language or literature, mathematics, science and one
other subject.
Professional Qualifications. – Candidates should have
obtained the National Certificate of Technology (Part
time three year training course) relevant to the field of
his employment from a Technical College recognized

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1137
by the government with the afore - mentioned basic
qualifications :
* The candidates who become qualified at the Open
Competitive Examination for a Training Grade in
Technological Service will be placed on the initial
salary step of the salary scale of Grade III after they
submit the certificate issued by the relevant
institution to the effect that they have completed
the one year theoretical and practical training
according to the syllabus relevant to the service and
have passed the relevant examination.
* The apprentices who are unable to pass the
examination held at the end of the training, have the
opportunity to get their training extended for a period
of not more than 06 months. The service of the
apprentices who fail the examination held at the end
of the extended period will be suspended.
05. Salary Scale :
(a) Grade III
MN 3-2006 A under Public Administration Circular 06/
2006 Rs. 15,005 - 180x4 - 240x6 - 320x11 - 360x20 -
Rs. 27,885.
Candidates should pass first efficiency bar examination
before reaching fourth salary increment and proficiency
in second official language should be obtained before the
lapse of 05 years from the appointment as per Public
Administration Circular No. 7/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
   (b) Training Grade.– Monthly Allowance – Rs. 12,920.
06. Service Conditions :
1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. Selected candidates will be attached to District
Secretariats/ Office of the Government Agent and
Divisional Secretariats on the discretion of Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs.
3. Selected candidates are liable to serve in any part of the
Island.
4. Selected candidates will be subjected to a probation
period of three years. Candidates who are already in
public service will be subjected to an acting period of
one year.
5. Selected candidates are bound by provisions indicated
in Establishments Code and financial regulations and
provisions of Public Administration Circulars, orders
issued from time to time by the government and
instructions issued by the Department.
07. (i) Method of recruitment :
This examination will be held strictly in Colombo by
Commissioner General of Examinations on the
supervision of Technological Service Board in September
2013.
    (ii) Scheme of examination :
(a) Examination will be held strictly in Sinhala & Tamil
medium.  It is not allowed to change the medium of
language applied by the candidate consequently.
(b) Candidates should answer all question papers at the
examination in one and the same language.
(c) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examination for the purpose of conducting the
examination and issuing the results and they shall be
liable to be subjected to any punishment imposed
by Commissioner General of Examination for
violation of these rules and regulations.
   (iii) Subjects of the examination.– Examination will consist
of two question papers :
(1) Intelligence Test
(2) Question Paper on Technology
Note.- If the number of candidates who are eligible
to be recruited to Grade III, which is the
recruitment Grade, is less than the number of
vacancies, the candidates who pass the
qualifying examination under 4b above shall be
included into Training Grade for the purpose
of filling the remaining vacancies.
08. Syllabus :
(I) Intelligence test :
Duration – 1 hour – Marks 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the
candidate’s capacity for critical reasoning decision
making and analytical power.
(II) Question Paper on Technology :
Duration – 3 hours – Marks 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the
candidate’s knowledge on Principles of building
construction, designing and understanding plans, water
supply, drainage systems, disposal of garbage.
The priority list for recruitment will be prepared on the
aggregate of marks by selecting candidates who secured
40% or more for each paper.
* Candidates are required to bring geometrical sets and
other necessary tools to the examination centre for
answering the paper.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1138
09. Penalty for Furnishing False Information.–  Care should be
taken to furnish correct information in filling the application form.
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be
cancelled at any stage prior to during or after the examination, as
per the rules and regulations of this examination. If, during any
stage, it is found that a candidate has furnished false he will be liable
for dismissal from the Public Service. The issue of an admission
card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the
required qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Examination Fee. – The fee is Rs. 500. It should be paid at
any District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat should be pasted securely to the relevant
cage in the application form.  (It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate for future reference) Under no
circumstance will the fee be refunded. Money order or stamps will
not be accepted as examination fees.
11. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared using papers of A4 size
(21x29 cm) (normal half sheets) in such a way that,
(i) Para 01 – 03 appear on the first page ; and
(ii) Para No: 04 onwards on the other pages.
(iii) Applications which are incomplete and not prepared
in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected
without any notice. Further it would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the completed application
form. It is the responsibility of the candidate to
make sure that the application form perfected by
him/her complies with the specimen given in the
examination notice. It is essential to mention the
name of examination in English language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.
(b) The completed application form for the examination
should be sent by Registered Post to reach below
mentioned address on or before 23rd of July 2013 :
Commissioner - General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
The words "Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer
(Grade III) of Sri Lanka Technological Service Ministry
of Public Administration & Home Affairs -2013" should
be clearly indicated on the top left-hand corner of the
envelope enclosing the application. Any application
received after the closing date will not be accepted.
(c) It is compulsory for the officers who are already in public
service to submit the application certified by the Head of
the Department under the Section 12.0 of the application.
(d) A notification   will be published in newspapers as soon
as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of
such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to fax the
following to the Department of Examinations: i.e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of
applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing
a fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
(e) Candidates shall get their signature on the admission card
attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the
examination hall on the date of examination. Candidates
shall not be allowed to sit the examination without such
admission card.
(f) Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
12. Candidates will be required to surrender any of the following
documents to the supervisor of the examination hall to prove their
identity –
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the Secretary to Ministry of Public
Administration & Home Affairs. Candidates shall be bound by the
general rules & regulations pertaining to this examination mentioned
in the Gazette.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
  Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration &
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1139
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
POST OF TECHNICAL OFFICER (GRADE III) OF SRI LANKA
TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE TO BE APPOINTED FOR THE SERVICE AT
DISTRICT SECRETARIAT/ OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT AGENT AND
DIVISIONAL SECRETARIATS UNDER MINISTRY OF PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATION & HOME AFFAIRS -2013
(for office use only)
Language Medium : Grade applied for:
     Sinhala - 2 Grade III –  1
     Tamil - 3 Training Grade – 2
(Indicate the relevant (Indicate the relevant number in
number in the cage) the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)  Eg. PERERA, A.B.C
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
 (In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 N.I.C. Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.4 Postal District :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1 Male – 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 23rd July, 2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications  :
4.1 Particulars of G.C.E (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
12
34
56
78
91 0
4.2 Particulars of G .C.E (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
5.0 Technical Qualifications :
Institution Course Duration Pass Certificate No.
followed and Date
6.0 Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
7.0 If already in public service :
7.1 Address of Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
7.2 Present Post :–––––––––––.
7.3 Period of Service :–––––––––––.
7.4 Whether the post is permanent and pensionable or
temporary :–––––––––––.
8.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of
Law?  (Indicate 
3 in the Relevant cage) (Indicate particulars,
if the answer is yes)
Yes : No :
9.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee:
(a) Office to which the payment was made :–––––––––––.
(b) Number and the date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
(c) Amount :–––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1140
10.0 Candidate's Certificate  :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.  I agree so suffer any loss that may cause as
a result of any information not being completed and/or
any information erroneously being included here.  I also
state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination for the
purpose of holding this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of Applicant's Signature  :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss  ................................, who
submits this application, is known to me personally and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on .................. and
further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and
pasted the receipt on the applications.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
12.0 Attestation of the Head of the Department, if the candidate is a
Public Officer :
I hereby submit the application of Mr./ Mrs./ Miss ………
Further, it is hereby informed that he/ she is serving in a permanent/
temporary/ casual post of this Ministry/ Department and he/ she
can/ cannot be released from service, if selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department or Authorized Officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/ Department :–––––––––––.
06–438/1
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME  AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Technical Assistant (Grade III) to be appointed for
the Service at District Secretariat / Office of the
Government Agent and Divisional Secretariats   -2013
01. APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens
of Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination held for
recruitment to above Posts.
02. On the results of a written test conducted by Commissioner
General of Examinations, candidates who have proved their
qualifications on merit will be selected for appointment to the
Posts in Grade III of Technical Assistant to be appointed to District
Secretariats/ Office of the Government Agent and Divisional
Secretariats under Ministry of Public Administration & Home
Affairs.
03. Age Limit.– Candidates should be not less than 18 years and
not more than 35 years of age on the closing date of applications.
However, the maximum age limit will not be applicable for the
candidates who are already in Public or Provincial Public Service.
04. Educational Qualifications .– Shall have passed GCE (O/L)
in not more than two sitting, in six (06) subjects including language
or literature, mathematics and science.
05. Professional Qualifications.– Shall have possessed National
Certificate in Technology (Civil Engineering) at level 5 of NVQ
awarded by Technical/ Technological, College recognized by the
government along with the above educational qualifications.
06. Other qualifications :
(a) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(b) Shall have a sound moral character.
07. Salary Scale :
MT 1-2006 A under Public Administration Circular 06/2006
Rs. 14,425 - 10x145 - 11x170 - 6x240 – 14x320-
Rs. 23,665.
Candidates should pass the first efficiency bar examination before
reaching 4
th salary increment and proficiency in second official
language should be obtained before the lapse of 05 years from the
appointment as per Public Administration Circular No. 7/2007
dated 28.05.2007.
08. Service Conditions :
1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. Selected candidates will be attached to District
Secretariats/ Office of the Government Agent and
Divisional Secretariats on the discretion of Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1141
3. Selected candidates are liable to serve in any part of the
Island.
4. Selected candidates will be subjected to a probation period
of three years. Candidates who are already in public service
will be subjected to an acting period of one year.
5. Selected candidates are bound by provisions indicated in
Establishments Code and Financial Regulations and
provisions of Public Administration Circulars, orders
issued from time to time by the government and
instructions issued by the Department.
09. (i) Method of Recruitment :
This examination will be held strictly in Colombo by
Commissioner General of Examinations in September
2013.
(ii)  Scheme of Examination :
(a) Examination will be held strictly in Sinhala and
Tamil medium.  It is not allowed to change the
medium of language applied by the candidate
consequently.
(b) Candidates should answer all question papers at
the examination in one and the same language.
(c) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General
of Examination for the purpose of conducting the
examination and issuing the results and they shall
be liable to be subjected to any punishment
imposed by Commissioner General of Examination
for violation of these rules and regulations.
(iii) Subjects of the Examination :
Examination will consist of two question papers.
(1) Intelligence Test
(2) Question Paper on Technology
10. Syllabus :
1 Intelligence test
Duration – 1 hour
Total Marks- 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess and
decide the candidate’s capacity for critical reasoning
and analytical power.
2 Question Paper on Technology
Duration – 3 hours
Total Marks - 100
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the
candidate’s knowledge on principles of building
construction, designing and understanding plans, water
supply, drainage systems, and disposal of garbage.
The priority list for recruitment will be prepared on the
aggregate of marks by selecting candidates who secured
40% or more for each paper.
· Candidates are required to bring geometrical sets and
other necessary tools to the examination centre for
answering the paper.
11.  Penalty for Furnishing False Information.– Care should be
taken to furnish correct information in filling the application form.
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be
cancelled at any stage prior to during or after the examination, as
per the rules and regulations of this examination. If, during any
stage, it is found that a candidate has furnished false he will be liable
for dismissal from the Public Service. The issue of an admission
card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the
required qualifications to sit the examination.
12. Examination Fee.– The fee is Rs. 500. It should be paid at
any District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to
Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of
Examinations. The receipt obtained from the District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat should be pasted securely to the relevant
cage in the application form.  (It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt with the candidate for future reference) Under no
circumstance will the fee be refunded. Money order or stamps will
not be accepted as examination fees.
13. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared using papers of A4 size
(21x29 cm) (normal half sheets) in such a way that,
(i) Para 01 – 03 appear on the first page and
(ii) Para No: 04 onwards on the other pages.
(iii) Applications which are incomplete and not prepared
in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected
without any notice. Further it would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the completed application form.
It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure
that the application form perfected by him/her
complies with the specimen given in the examination
notice. It is essential to mention the name of
examination in English language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.
(b) The completed application form for the examination should
be sent by Registered Post to reach below mentioned
address on or before 23rd of July 2013
Commissioner-General of Examination,
Organization and Foreign Examination Branch,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
The words "Recruitment to the Post of Technical Assistant
(Grade III) Ministry of Public Administration & Home
Affairs -2013" should be clearly indicated on the top

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1142
left-hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
Any application received after the closing date will not be
accepted.
(c) It is compulsory for the officers who are already in public
service to submit the application certified by the Head of
the Department under the Section 12.0 of the application.
(d) A notification  will be published in newspapers as soon as
the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of
such advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the
Department of Examinations in the manner specified in
the advertisement. It would be advisable to fax the
following to the Department of Examinations: i.e. certified
photocopies of the application form and the receipt kept
at your possession, receipt of registration and, in case of
applicants outside Colombo, letter of request furnishing a
fax number to which the admission card should be sent.
(e) Candidates shall get their signature on the admission card
attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the
examination hall on the date of examination. Candidates
shall not be allowed to sit the examination without such
admission card.
(f) Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
14. Candidates will be required to surrender any of the following
documents to the supervisor of the examination hall to prove their
identity :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A valid Passport.
15.  Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the Secretary to Ministry of Public
Administration & Home Affairs. Candidates shall be bound by the
general rules & regulations pertaining to this examination mentioned
in the Gazette.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
  Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration & Home Affairs,
……  June 2013.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE
POST OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANT (GRADE III) TO BE APPOINTED FOR THE
SERVICE AT DISTRICT SECRETARIAT/ OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT AGENT
AND DIVISIONAL SECRETARIA TS UNDER THE MINISTRY OF PUBLIC
ADMINISTRATION & HOME AFFAIRS -2013
(for office use only)
Language Medium :
     Sinhala - 2
     Tamil - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)  Eg. PERERA, A.B.C
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(in English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
 (In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 N.I.C. Number :
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
(In English block capitals) :–––––––––––.
2.4 Postal District :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1 Male – 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 23rd July, 2013 :
Years : Months : Days :
4.0 Educational qualifications  :
4.1 Particulars of G.C.E (O/L) Examination
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1143
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
12
34
56
78
91 0
4.2 Particulars of G.C.E (A/L) Examination
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :–––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
5.0 Technical Qualifications :
Institution Course Duration Pass Certificate No.
followed and Date
6.0 Other qualifications :–––––––––––.
7.0 If already in public service
7.1 Address of Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
7.2 Present Post :–––––––––––.
7.3 Period of Service :–––––––––––.
7.4 Whether the post is permanent & pensionable or
temporary :–––––––––––.
8.0 Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a court of
Law?  (Indicate 
3 in the Relevant cage) (Indicate particulars,
if the answer is yes)
Yes N o
9.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee:
(a) Office to which the payment was made :–––––––––––.
(b) Number and the date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
(c) Amount :–––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
10.0 Candidate’s Certificate  :
(a) I solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in
this application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge.  I agree so suffer any loss that may cause as
a result of any information not being completed and/or
any information erroneously being included here.  I also
state that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the
inaccuracy is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
the Commissioner General of Examination for the
purpose of holding this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein later.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of Applicant
’s Signature  :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss.  ................................, who
submits this application, is known to me personally and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on .................. and
further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and
pasted the receipt on the applications.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer, attesting the Signature :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
12.0 Attestation of the Head of the Department, if the candidate is
a public officer :
I hereby submit the application of Mr/ Mrs/ Miss ………
Further, it is hereby informed that he/ she is serving in a permanent/
temporary/ casual post of this Ministry/ Department and he/ she
can/ cannot be released from service, if selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department or authorized officer.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/ Department :–––––––––––.
06–438/2

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'06'21
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.06.2013
1144
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
AMENDMENT
MINISTRY  OF  HEALTH
“THE Gazette Notification of “Open Competitive Examination - 2013” Recruitment for Departmental Posts (MN 03-2006A) in the
Ministry of Health” should be amended as follows :
Sequential Post Number of Vacancies
No.
1. Technical Officer (Civil) Grade III 32
2. Technical Officer (Electrical) Grade III 10
3. Draftsman Grade III 04
* “Certified Copies relevant to the professional and Technical qualifications should be annexed” should be included under the note
at the end of the notification.
* Under the professional qualification mentioned in Educational and other qualifications, should be :
(i) Full time one year course on Draftsman ; or
(ii) Diploma Certificate on Draftsman.
* “The post applied for” ....................... should be mentioned in the top - left corner of the specimen application form.
K. A. S. K
EERAGALA,
Secretary Acting,
Ministry of Health.
“Suwasiripaya”,
Ministry of Health,
No. 385, Rev. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.
06–700