

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 189
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 184 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"370 – 2024 fmnrjdß ui 02 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'02'02
No. 2,370  –  fRiday, fEbRuaRy 02, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtioN  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd february 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 9th february 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
181 - b 082537 - 5,403 (02/2024)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
182
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental orders or Regulations 
and any other orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular force personnel in the army, Navy and air force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
183
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. on no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
184
hEALTh SER vICES  COmmITTEE  Of ThE  PubLIC  SER vICE  COmmISSION
mINISTR y Of hEALTh
Calling Applications for the Promotion to the Specialist Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda
medical Service
aPPLicatioNS  will be entertained from Ayurveda Medical Officers who are serving in the Institutions belonged to 
the Line Ministry / Provincial Councils/ Local Government Institutions, who have fulfilled following qualifications in 
accordance with the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka a yurveda Medical Service and amendments made to it from time to 
time, published in the extraordinary Gazette Notification bearing No. 2199/10 dated 27.10.2020 for the promotion to the 
Specialist Grade of the Sri Lanka a yurveda Medical Service.
01. Qualifications relevant to the Promotion for the Specialist Grade :
 i. Being an Ayurveda Medical officer of the Grade II or above Grade of the Ayurveda Medical Service.
 ii. as indicated in the appendix iV of the Service Minute of the a yurveda Medical Service, being obtained 
a Postgraduate degree of not less than 03 years full time doctor of Medicine in a yurveda / Siddha/ unani 
or Master of Surgery in a yurveda /Siddha / unani from a Local or foreign university recognized by the 
Government of Sri Lanka and the University Grants Commission and it is being certified by the Board of 
Management of the relevant university.
 iii. Not being received a disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions mentioned in the Public 
Service commission circular No. 01/2020.
 iV . After having obtained the qualifications mentioned in I and II above and after obtaining a full time Clinical 
Training and Research Training of not less than 02 years related to the subject area studied under the 
supervision of Specialist Doctor of the Department of Ayurveda, being obtained a Board Certificate of the 
board of Study that is established in an a yurveda / Siddha / unani Postgraduate institution recognized by 
the university Grants commission.
Note : Untilestablishment of the Board of Study mentioned in IV above, after having fulfilled the qualifications indicated 
in I and II above,considering only the qualification of being obtained a full time Clinical and Research Training of not less 
than 02 years related to the subject area studied under the supervision of a Specialist Doctor of the Department of Ayurveda 
promotion to the Specialist Grade will be made.
method of Promotion :
in the event of the vacancies of the posts are occurred (on the date of 01 of January and on 01 of July every year) applications 
are entertained from among the Ayurveda Medical officers in the service who werecompleted above qualifications. 
appointment of an interview board and granting approval for the Marking Procedure applicable to that are done by the 
appointing authority, and accordingly the qualifications of the applicants are evaluated by the relevant Interview Board and 
recommendations of that interview board along with the recommendations of the Secretary of the Ministry are submitted 
to the appointing authority and after having obtained the approval of the appointing authority,action will be taken to grant 
promotions.
It is compulsory to submit certificates and documents in proof of relevant Educational and Professional experience mentioned 
above at the interview.
Post - v acant

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
185
02. Number of existing vacancies as at 01.01.2023
Serial
Number
Institution / Provincial Council v acancies
01.01.2020
30.06.2020
01.07.2020
31.12.2020
01.01.2021
30.06.2021
01.07.2021
31.12.2021
01.01.2022
30.06.2022
01.07.2022
31.12.2022
01.01.2023
01. Ayurveda National hospital- borella 06 06 08 09 04 04 05
02. bandaranayake memorial Ayurveda 
Research Institute
03 03 03 03 02 02 03
03. Western Province 10 10 09 08 08 08 07
04. Southern Province 09 09 09 09 09 09 09
05. North-Western Province 08 08 08 07 05 05 05
06. Central Province 09 09 09 08 08 08 08
07. Sabaragamuwa
Province
08. uva Province 08 08 08 08 08 08 08
09. North Central Province 07 07 07 07 07 07 07
10. Eastern Province 09 09 09 09 09 09 09
11.
Northern Province
08 08 08 08 11 11 11
Total 87 87 88 86 81 81 82
Note : Ayurveda Medical Officers who have completed the above qualifications at the time of retirement can apply for these 
vacancies.
03.  Applicants who have completed the qualifications mentioned above should be sent their applications prepared as per 
the model shown (application can also be downloaded through the www.ayurveda.gov.lk) in the notification through 
the Head of The Department, and the retired Ayurveda Medical Officers in person to the address of “Commissioner 
General of a yurveda, department of a yurveda, old Kottawa Road, Navinna, Maharagama” under registered post 
before 04.03.2024. The caption “Calling applications for the promotion to the Specialist Grade of the Sri Lanka 
a yurveda Medical Service” should be mentioned on the top left-hand corner of the envelope of which the application 
is sent.
04.  the initial salary step of a post of Specialist Grade is related to the SL 3 - 2016 (Rs. 88,000 - 12x2700 - 120,400) as 
per the Public administration circular No. 3/2016.
05.  the Marking Procedure relevant to the interview for the promotion to the Specialist Grade of the Sri Lanka a yurveda 
Medical Service is as follows.
 1.  Period of Service: (maximum marks 60)
Period of Service in Grade il of the Sri Lanka a yurveda Medical Service 30 marks
(02 marks per every one year of service)
Period of Service in Grade i of the Sri Lanka a yurveda Medical Service 30 marks
(05 marks per every one year of service)

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
186
Note :
in providing marks for seniority, for a period of less than one year, marks will be given proportionately in 
accordance with the provisions of the Public Service commission circular No. 01/2019.)
 2. Experience: (maximum marks 20)
After the completion of Postgraduate Qualifications, for every year after two years of Clinical and Research 
Training, for serving in the field of Clinical / Research 02 marks per one year.
 3. Additional Educational or Professional qualifications related to the field: (20 Maximum Marks)
  i.  Educational Qualifications :  (10 marks)
  
   (a) Master of Science (M.Sc) degree related to a yurveda Medicine    - 06 marks
   (b) Master of Philosophy (M.Phil.) related to a yurveda Medicine or doctor of Medicine  - 08 marks
    (MD) (not certified by the Board Study)
   (c) Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D) or Doctor of Medicine (MD) (Board certified) related 
    to a yurveda Medicine   - 10 Marks
 Note :
 For the educational qualifications applicable under I above (Basic Qualifications) marks will not be granted at this 
point and marks will be granted only for the highest qualification.
 ii. Research and Publications:
For Research and Publications in the relevant field (10 marks)
i. For one international level Research and a publication related to the subject area 10 marks per each.
ii. For one National level Research and one book publications related to the Subject area 05 marks 
per each.
Note :
in evaluating Research and Publications, marks will be given based on the criteria mentioned in annexture 01.
(Total marks 100)
06. method of Selection
After having checked the certificates and documents related to the educational, Professional Service experience and 
Seniority of the candidates who have completed the basic qualifications by an Interview Panel, the candidates who obtain 
the highest marks according to the above marking procedure, according to the number of available vacancies, action 
will be taken to promote the Specialist Grade by the Health Services committee of the Public Service commission.
07. Regarding the matters not covered by this notification the decision of the Health Service Committee of the 
Public Service Commission will be the final decision.
 Dr. P. G. Maheepala, 
 Secretary.
Ministry of Health, Suwasiripaya,
colombo 10.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
187
Annexture 01
criteria that should be applicable for the evaluation of publications.
 i.  Publications.
(a) Journal Research Papers - an Essey or an article with a manuscript with an educational importance 
published in a numbered serious of publications that has been reviewed.
(b) Conference Papers / Extracts / final Essays copied - Reports with academic importance used for Symposiums, 
forums, Seminars, Educational conferences, academic dialogues, Workshops or academic conferences.
 ii.  With regard to publications with a participation of several authors the amount of contribution of the candidate 
should be clearly indicated, and marks will be granted in proportion to the candidate’s contribution.
 iii.  Publications published on the basis of same data / Research information, and mostly reaching substantially similar 
conclusions will not be considered as separate publications. in such cases only one publication will be considered 
for awarding of marks.
mODEL   APPLICATION   fORm
Application form for the Promotion to the Specialist Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurveda medical Service
 1. Name with intials  : …………………………………………………………………………
 2. full Name  : …………………………………………………………………………
     …………………………………………………………………………
 3. date of birth : …………………………………………………………………………
 4. National identity card No.  : …………………………………………………………………………
 5. (i) Permanent address : …………………………………………………………………………
             (ii) t elephone No. : …………………………………………………………………………
 6. (i)  address of the work place  : …………………………………………………………………………
  (ii) t elephone Number : …………………………………………………………………………
 7. (i)  Date of first appointment : …………………………………………………………………………
             (ii)  Present Grade  : …………………………………………………………………………
  (iii) date of appointment to the Grade ii :………………………………………………………………
  (iv)  Service period of the Grade ii as at 30.06.2022 : …………………………………………………
  (v)   date of appointment to the Grade i :………………………………………………………………
  (vi)  Service period of the Grade i as at 30.06.2022 : …………………………………………………

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
188
 8. Postgraduate Qualifications Obtained :
  (as per the Service Minute of the Sri Lanka ayurveda Medical Service)
  
Institution Name of the Course Duration Date of Completion 
(Including Training 
Period)
 9. The Postgraduate Qualifications obtained is belonged to which subject area as per the Appendix IV of the Service 
Minute of the Sri Lanka ayurveda Medical Service :
  ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………………
…………………………………………………………………………………………………
  It is certified that the information mentioned above is true.
  …………………………………………… …………………………………………
   date Signature
  Recommendation of the Head of the department
  the application submitted by Mr./ Mrs./ Miss. ………………………………………………… for promotion to the 
Specialist Grade of the Sri Lanka ayurveda Medical Service is submitted herewith, and the information mentioned 
therein is correct, and that the officer/ lady officer has completed/ has not completed the satisfactory period of 
service in the immediate preceding 05 years, and a disciplinary action has been taken*/ has not been taken against 
the officer/ lady officer during the immediate preceding 05 years.
  date : …………………………………  ………………………………………………………
 Signature of the Head of the department  
 and Official Seal
 * if a disciplinary action has been taken, that should be mentioned.
 * It is further informed that incomplete applications submitted will be rejected without submitting to the interview, 
and applications that is not in accordance with the model application form and incomplete applications will be 
rejected without notice. 
02-113

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
189
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c. 
mINISTR y  Of fIShERIES
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of marine Engineering Assistant (Sri 
Lanka Technological Service) Grade III in the management Assistant Supervisory Category (Technical) 
of the Department of fisheries and Aquatic Resources -2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby invited from the eligible officers who are employed in the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
Resources for the limited competitive examination to recruit to the vacancies in the post of Marine Engineering assistant 
Grade iii in the Sri Lanka t echnological Service of the department of fisheries and aquatics Resources. Recruitment will 
be made based on the results of the competitive Examination which will be conducted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in may, 2024 in Colombo.  
 
the application has been published via “Online Applications - Recruitment Exams” under “Our Services” in the 
website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk  and the applications can only be submitted via 
online. acceptance of online applications will be open on 02nd  february , 2024 at 9.00 a.m.
closing date of application will be 01 st  march , 2024.
Applications are hereby invited from qualified officers currently serving in a pensionable post in the Public/
Provincial Public Service, who fulfil the requirements specified in this notice to fill four (04) vacancies in the Post of Marine 
Engineering assistant in the Sri Lanka t echnological Service of the department of fisheries and aquatic Resources. duties 
of the post  consist of provision of inspection reports, assessment reports and seaworthiness certificates of fishing vessels 
constructed and which are under construction  at approved boatyards and  inspection reports on traditional fishing vessels, 
provision of technical reports related to the registration and insurance of vessels, issuance of seaworthiness certificates and 
assessment reports for accessories of fishing vessels, provision of inspection reports and related technical work, provision of 
technical observations and recommendations for the registration of designers of vessels and engines etc., for the specifications 
of vessel designs and devices to be provided by the designers of vessels and engines, providing  technical and mechanical 
quality testing reports  on the vehicles of the department and giving recommendations for payments having inspected the 
vehicles after the repairs.
01.  Terms of Service:
candidates to be selected will be appointed to the Post of Marine Engineering assistant (Sri Lanka t echnical Service) 
Grade III subject to the general conditions governing appointments in the Public Service and the conditions specified 
in the Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Public Service commission. this post is permanent and pensionable.
02. Salary Group and Salary Scale:
Salary code No: MN 3-2016
Salary Scale: Rs. 31,040 – 10 × 445 – 11 x 660 – 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 –  Rs. 57,550/- 
03. Educational Qualifications:
Should have passed the G.C.E.(O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects in not more than two sittings with credit passes 
for Language or Literature, Mathematics and Science subjects. 
04. Professional Qualifications:
 i. Ndt  in Mechanical Engineering /Marine Engineering awarded by the university of Moratuwa or Hardy 
Technical College, Ampara;
  or
 ii. Diploma in Engineering awarded by the National Apprenticeship and V ocational Training Authority;

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
190
  or
 iii. National Advanced Engineering Diploma awarded by Sri Lanka Institute of Advanced Technology;
  or
 iv. Diploma in Mechanical Engineering Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka;  
  or
 v. Successfully completion of Part i of the Engineering Examination conducted by the Sri Lanka Engineering 
Institute;
  or
 vi. Have completed the National V ocational Qualification (NVQ)Level 6 related to the field of employment;
  or
 vii. Have obtained other technical qualifications recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission 
as equivalent in all respects to the above technical qualifications after consulting the Ministry of Higher 
Education and the institutions that issue the above technical certificates.
05. Experience: 
Should have completed five years of active and satisfactory service in a departmental post in primary un-skilled 
service category or above of the department of fisheries and aquatic Resources. 
06. Physical Requirements: 
Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and perform the duties in the 
post. 
07. Others :
i)  Should have completed 05 years of satisfactory service immediately preceding the due date.
II)  Should have complied with the qualifications specified in 3 and 4 above required for recruitment to the post in 
all respects as at the closing date of applications.
08.  Age Limit: Not applicable
09.  method of Recruitment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Eligible candidates 
will be selected having interviewed a number of candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited based on the 
merit order of the total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination.
 (a)  the competitive examination for recruitment will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English languages.
 (b)  a  candidate applying for the completive examination for recruitment shall answer all the papers in the 
medium of language in which he or she is eligible to sit  for the examination and no any candidate is 
permitted to change the medium of language mentioned in the application later.
10. Written Examination :
Question Paper Time Total marks Pass marks 
intelligence and aptitude test 01 hour 100 40%
Subject Related Technical Test 02 hours 100 40%

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
191
 Syllabus is given below:
Name of the question Paper Syllabus
intelligence and aptitude t est a  multiple-choice question paper framed under the topics of numerical ability, 
problem solving, reasoning and general intelligence.
Subject Related Technical Test  Part i
 Consists of multiple-choice questions on environment, scientific discoveries, 
knowledge on science, international information.
Part ii 
Consists of subject related structured or semi-structured questions.
11.  General Interview: Not Applicable.  
12. Examination fee:
Examination fee is Rs.600/-. When paying the examination fees, the payment shall be made only under the following 
payment methods provided through the online system.
 i.  through any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the facility of internet t ransactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon.
Note: -
(a)  instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are published on the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
(b)  Receipt of payment will be notified by SMS or e-mail. The full amount of examination fee shall be paid and 
applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
- Sri Lanka will not be held responsible for any errors in the payment of examination fees through the above-
mentioned payment methods.
(c)  the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination by no 
means.
13. Application method:
online application forms for examination should be completed only in English Language. the application submitted 
via online by the candidate will be notified by SMS to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to 
the e-mail address to the effect that the Department has accepted/not accepted the application. Before completing 
the online application, it is required to download the instructions prepared for applying for the examination. the 
instructions given therein shall strictly be followed when filling the application form. 
14.  Admission to the Examination:
(a)  admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to those candidates who have 
submitted their duly completed applications by paying the prescribed examination fee before the closing date 
of applications, within the age limit specified in the notification, on the presumption that only those qualified as 
mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates, 
an announcement stating the same will be published on the website of the department of Examinations, Sri 
Lanka Examinations department if the admission cards are not received even after 2 or 3 days upon the 
publication of the announcement, it should be reported to the department of Examinations of Sri Lanka, as 
stated therein.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
192
 in such a case, candidate’s full name, address, N.i.c number and the name of the examination should be 
mentioned and it is important to retain a photocopy of the application, a photocopy of the receipt related to the 
payment of the examination fee and the receipt issued when mailing the application in registered post. if the 
candidate is from outside colombo, it would be useful to send a request letter containing the candidate’s fax 
number and the above information to the fax number mentioned in the advertisement to obtain a copy of the 
admission card via fax. a candidate appearing for the examination shall submit his/her duly attested admission 
card to the examination hall. a candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be allowed to sit 
for the examination.
(b)  a  candidate shall sit for the examination in the examination hall assigned to him, and every candidate shall 
produce their attested admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre on the day of his/her first 
appearance in that hall. General rules and regulations to be adopted by every candidate in respect of the 
examination are published in this advertisement.
(c)  Issuing of an admission card to a candidate shall not be deemed that he or she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit for the examination.
(d)  in case of violation of the rules prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conducting of the examination, they will be subjected to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
15.  Identity of the Candidate:
Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for that purpose.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving Licence
also, candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can be 
verified. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving the centre, he or she 
must leave his/her face and ears uncovered so that the examination authorities can identify the candidate.
16.  N.B:
a.  applications of candidates who fail to submit documents when requested will not be considered.
b.  a  copy of the application should be handed over by the candidate to the relevant authorities for inclusion in his 
personal file, and a copy of the application certified by the Head of the  Institution and a letter of proof of service 
should be submitted at the time of calling for the interview.
17.  Selection for Appointment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Eligible candidates 
will be selected having interviewed a number of candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited in order of 
merit of the total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination.
18. Release of Results:
In addition to sending the relevant result sheet to the “Director General, Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
Resources”, the results will personally  be informed all the candidates who sat for the examination or be released 
through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations .
19. furnishing false Information:
If a candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature may be canceled before the examination 
or during the examination or after the examination or at any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
193
found to be false within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable 
to dismissal from the public service. any matter not considered in these regulations will be dealt with as determined 
by the Public Service commission.
20.  in the event of any inconsistency in the notice published in Sinhala, tamil and English media, the notice published in 
Sinhala medium shall prevail.
            
Susantha Kahawatta,
director General,
department of fisheries and aquatic Resources,
Maligawatta,
colombo 10.
24.01.2024 
02-28
_________________________________________
mINISTR y Of  fIShERIES
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of marine Engineering Assistant (Sri Lanka 
Technological Service) Grade III in the management Assistant Supervisory Category (Technical) of the 
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources from amongst the officers who are already in the Public / 
Provincial Public Service and holding a pensionable post -2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby invited from the officers who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and 
holding a pensionable post for the competitive Examination to be held to recruit to the vacancies in the post of Marine 
Engineering assistant Grade iii in the Sri Lanka technological Service of the department of fisheries and aquatics 
Resources. Recruitment will be made based on the results of the competitive Examination which will be conducted by the 
commissioner General of Examinations in May ,2024 in colombo.   
The application has been published through “Online Applications - Recruitment Exams” under “Our Services” in 
the website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk  and the applications can only be submitted via 
online. acceptance of online applications will be open on 02nd  february, 2024 at 9.00 a.m.
closing date of application will be 01 st  March,  2024.
Applications are hereby invited from qualified officers currently serving in a pensionable post in the Public/
Provincial Public Service, who fulfil the requirements specified in this notice to fill six (06) vacancies in the Post of Marine 
Engineering assistant in the Sri Lanka technological Service of the department of fisheries and aquatic Resources. duties 
of the post  consist of provision of inspection reports, assessment reports and seaworthiness certificates of fishing vessels 
constructed and which are under construction  at approved boatyards and  inspection reports on traditional fishing vessels, 
provision of technical reports related to the registration and insurance of vessels, issuance of seaworthiness certificates and 
assessment reports for accessories of fishing vessels, provision of inspection reports and related technical work, provision of 
technical observations and recommendations for the registration of designers of vessels and engines etc., for the specifications 
of vessel designs and devices to be provided by the designers of vessels and engines, providing  technical and mechanical 
quality testing reports  on the vehicles of the department and giving recommendations for payments having inspected the 
vehicles after the repairs.
01.  Terms of Service:
candidates to be selected will be appointed to the Post of Marine Engineering assistant (Sri Lanka technical Service) 
Grade III subject to the general conditions governing appointments in the Public Service and the conditions specified 
in the Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Public Service commission. this post is permanent and pensionable.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
194
02. Salary Group and Salary Scale:
Salary code No.: MN 3-2016
Salary Scale: Rs. 31,040 – 10 × 445 – 11 x 660 – 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 –   57,550/- 
03. Educational Qualifications:
Should have passed the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in three (03) subjects in one and the same sitting with two 
(02) subjects out of Pure Mathematics / Applied Mathematics /Combined Mathematics and Physics/ Engineering 
Technology/ Science for Technology;
and
Should have passed G.C.E.(O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects in one and the same sitting with credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Science, Mathematics and for another one subject. 
04. Professional Qualifications:
 i. Ndt  in Mechanical Engineering /Marine Engineering awarded by the university of Moratuwa or Hardy 
t echnical college, ampara 
 ii. diploma in Mechanical Engineering awarded by the National apprenticeship and V ocational t raining 
authority  or
 iii. diploma in Mechanical Engineering t echnology awarded by the open university of Sri Lanka    or
 iV . advanced diploma in Mechanical Engineering awarded by Sri Lanka institute of advanced t echnology  or
 V . diploma in Naval Engineering awarded by the Naval and Maritime academy of the Sri Lanka Navy
05. Experience: Not applicable
06. Physical Requirements: 
Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka (including Islands belonging 
to the territory of Sri Lanka) and perform the duties in the post. 
07. Others :
 (i) Every candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
      (ii) Should be of excellent character.
 (iii) The qualifications required for recruitment to the post should have been complied with in all respects 
before the closing date mentioned in the notice inviting applications.
 (iv) Should be holding a pensionable post in the Public / Provincial Public Service as on the date of calling 
for applications.
 (v) Should not have been subject to disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of the Public 
Service commission circular No. 01/2020.
08. Age Limit:
age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as on the closing date of applications. (accordingly, 
the eligibility regarding the age is satisfied only if the date of birth falls on or before 01.03.2006 and on or after 
01.03.1994.)
09. method of Recruitment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Eligible candidates 
will be selected having interviewed a number of candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited in order of 
the total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
195
 (a) the competitive examination for recruitment will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English languages.
 (b) a  candidate applying for the competitive examination shall answer all the papers in the medium of 
language in which he or she is eligible to sit the examination and no any candidate is permitted to change 
the medium of language mentioned in the application later.
10. Written Examination :
 Question Paper Time Total marks Pass marks 
intelligence test and aptitude 01 hour 100 40%
Subject Related Technical Test 02 hours 100 40%
Syllabus is given below.
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
intelligence test and aptitude a multiple-choice question paper framed under the topics of numerical ability, 
problem solving, reasoning and general intelligence.
Subject Related Technical Test  Part i
 Consists of multiple-choice questions on environment, scientific discoveries, 
knowledge on Science, international information.
Part ii 
Consists of subject related structured or semi-structured questions.
11. General Interview: Not applicable.  
12. Examination fee:
Examination fee is Rs.600/-. When paying the examination fees, the payment shall be made only under the following 
payment methods provided through the online system.
 i.  through any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the facility of internet transactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
Note: -
 (a) instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are published on the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
 (b) Receipt of payment will be notified by SMS or e-mail. The full amount of examination fee shall be paid and 
applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
- Sri Lanka will not be held responsible for any errors in the payment of examination fees through the  
above-mentioned payment methods.
 (c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination by no 
means.
13.  Application method:
online application forms for examination should be completed only in English language. the application submitted 
online by the applicant will be notified by SMS to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the e-mail 
address that the department has accepted/not accepted the application. before completing the online application, it is 
required to download the instructions prepared for applying for the examination. the instructions given therein shall 
strictly be followed when filling the application form. Any amendment made in the application after receipt of the 
printed copy shall not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. 
applications received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
196
14. Admission to Examination:
 (a) admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to those candidates who have 
submitted their duly completed applications by paying the prescribed examination fee before the closing date 
of receipt of applications, within the age limit specified in the notification, on presumption that only those 
qualified as mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As soon as the issuance of admission cards are 
issued to the applicants, an announcement stating the same will be published on the website of the department 
of Examinations, Sri Lanka, if the admission cards are not received even after 2 or 3 days upon the publication 
of the announcement, it should be reported to the department of Examinations Sri Lanka, as stated therein.
  in such a case, candidate’s full name, address, N.i.c number and the name of the examination should be 
mentioned and it is important to retain a photocopy of the application, a photocopy of the receipt related to the 
payment of the examination fee and the receipt issued when mailing the application in registered post. if the 
candidate is from outside colombo, it would be useful to send a request letter containing the candidate’s fax 
number and the above information to the fax number mentioned in the advertisement to obtain a copy of the 
admission card via fax. a  candidate appearing for the examination shall submit his/her duly attested admission 
card to the examination hall. a  candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be allowed to 
sit for the examination.
  (b) a  candidate shall sit for the examination in the examination hall assigned to him, and every candidate shall 
produce their attested admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre on the day of his first 
appearance in that hall. General rules and regulations to be adopted by every candidate in respect of the 
examination are published in this advertisement.
 (c) Issuing of an admission card to a candidate shall not be deemed as he or she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit the examination.
 (d) in case of violation of the rules prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conducting of the examination, they will be subjected to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
15. Identity of the Candidate:
Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for that purpose:
 i. National identity card,
 ii. Valid Passport,
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving Licence.
also, candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can be 
verified. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, he or she must leave 
his/her face and ears uncovered so that the examination authorities can identify the candidate.
16.  N.b:
 a. applications of candidates who fail to submit documents when requested will not be considered.
  b.  a  copy of the application should be handed over by the candidate to the relevant authorities for inclusion 
in his personal file, and a copy of the application certified by the Head of the institution and a letter of 
proof of service should be submitted at the time of calling for the interview.
17. Selection for Appointment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written test and a general interview. Eligible candidates will be 
selected having interviewed a number of candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited in order of merit of 
the total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
197
18. Release of Results:
In addition to sending the relevant result sheet to the “Director General, Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
Resources”, the results will personally  be informed all the candidates who sat for the examination or be released 
through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations.
19. furnishing false Information:
If a candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature may be canceled before the examination 
or during the examination or after the examination or at any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is 
found to be false within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable 
to dismissal from the public service. any matter not considered in these regulations will be dealt with as determined 
by the Public Service commission.
20. in the event of any inconsistency in the notice published in Sinhala, t amil and English media, the notice published in 
Sinhala medium shall prevail.
         
 Susantha Kahawatta,
 director General,
 department of fisheries and aquatic Resources.
Maligawatta,
colombo 10.
24th January 2024.
02-29
________________________________________
mINISTR y  Of fIShERIES
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Junior Radio Officer Grade III of the 
Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources from amongst the Officers who are already in the Public 
/ Provincial Public Service and holding a Pensionable Post -2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby invited from the officers who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and holding 
a pensionable post for the Completive Examination to be held to recruit to the vacancies in the post of Junior Radio Officer 
Grade iii of the department of fisheries and aquatic Resources. Recruitment will be made based on the results of the 
competitive Examination which will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations on May,2024 in colombo.   
The application has been published through “Online Applications - Recruitment Exams” under “Our Services” in 
the website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk and the applications can only be submitted via 
online. acceptance of online applications will be open on 2nd  february, 2024 at 9.00 a.m. 
closing date of application will be march 1 st, 2024.
Applications are hereby invited from qualified officers currently serving in a pensionable post in the Public/
Provincial Public Service, who fulfil the requirements specified in this notice to fill twenty-three (23) vacancies in the post 
of Junior Radio Officers remaining in 15 Coastal Districts of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources around 
the Island. The duties of the post consist of dealing with distress situations caused to fishermen and fishing vessels at sea, 
providing weather reports relevant to fishermen on a daily basis, connecting to the message exchanges of the fisheries 
regional offices, exchanging messages with the fishing vessels, providing information to their vessel owners and those who 
need it, maintaining  the systems arranged for providing information to fishers properly  by means of modern vessels and 
providing information to fishermen  throughout 24 hours. (Night shifts are compulsory.)

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
198
01. Terms of Service:
Candidates to be selected will be appointed to the Post of Junior Radio Officer Grade III subject to the general 
conditions governing the appointments in the Public Service and the conditions specified in the Scheme of Recruitment 
approved by the Public Service commission. this post is permanent and pensionable.
02. Salary Group and Salary Scale:
Salary code No: Mt  1-2016
Salary Scale: Rs. 29,840 – 10 × 300 – 11 x 350 – 10 x 560 – 10 x 660 –  Rs. 48,890/- 
03. Educational Qualifications:
Should have passed the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects in one and the same sitting with credit passes 
for Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics and another two more subjects. 
and 
Should have passed the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in three (03) subjects other than the Common General Test   
belonging to the Science/ Mathematics/ t echnology Streams in one and the same sitting/adequate to have passed 
three (03) subjects in one and the same sitting from old syllabus.
04. Professional Qualifications:
Should have successfully completed a course in National V ocational Qualification (N.V .Q) level five (5) in 
t elecommunications or broadcasting recognized by the t ertiary and V ocational Education commission and obtained 
certificates in that behalf.
05.  Experience: Not applicable
06.  Physical Requirements:
Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka (including the Islands 
belonging to the territory of Sri Lanka) and perform the duties in the post. 
07. Other Requirements:
 (i) Every candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
     (ii) Should be of excellent character.
                 (iii) The qualifications required for recruitment to the post should have been complied with all respects before 
the closing date mentioned in the notice inviting applications.
                (iv) Should be a holder of pensionable post in the Public / Provincial Public Service as on the date of calling 
for applications.
 (v) Should not have been subject to disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of the Public 
Service commission circular No. 01/2020.
 08.  Age Limit:
age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 35 years as on the closing date of applications. (accordingly, 
the eligibility regarding the age is satisfied only if the date of birth falls on or before 01.03.2003 and on or after 
01.03.1989)
09. method of Recruitment:
Recruitment will be made by calling a number of candidates equal to the number of vacancies from the candidates 
who secure the highest marks, based on the results of a written examination to a general interview. 
 (a) the competitive examination for recruitment will be conducted in Sinhala, t amil and English languages.
 (b) a  candidate applying for the completive examination shall answer all the papers in the medium of language 
in which he or she applied and no any candidate is permitted to change the medium of language mentioned 
in the application later.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
199
10. Written Examination:
 for Grade III
Subjects maximum 
marks 
Pass marks 
1. intelligence t est 100 40%
2. General Knowledge 100 40%
3. Subject Related Technical 
Environment
100 40%
Name of the Paper Syllabus
intelligence t est 
A subject related multiple-choice question paper prepared under the topics of 
Statistical ability, Problem Solving, Reasoning and General intelligence. all 
questions must be answered.
General Knowledge candidates are expected to answer for multiple choice questions r framed in 
order to gauge the basic knowledge of Sri Lanka as well as the world in relation 
to the important events in the fields of finance, economy, commerce, politics, 
international relations, management, science and technology, education, health, 
sports, environment, social and culture, especially the local and foreign fisheries 
sector. this question paper consists of 50 questions in multiple choice and short 
answer mode and all the questions have to be answered.
Subject Related 
t echnical Environment
1. Receiver
a.M.f .M.N.M.SSb.cW super- heterodyne functions and controllers
2. t ransmission cW, aM, fM
Reception of broadcasting signals, transmission of MoSS signals, power 
conditioning stage, importance of use of SWR-SWR meter, harmonic and 
spurious radiation.
3. t ransmission Lines and Notes
uneven and parallel roadblocks
4. Extremities
Vertical, double, Yagi terminal, terminal gain, effect of height, polarization
5. Wave propagation
Ionization, ionospheric layers, sunspots, MUF, LUF, OTF phase number, jump 
distance, jump zone, effective height, sky waves, direct wave attenuation.
6. Elements of messaging
Sine wave, wave period, frequency, speaker, microphone, scaler, variable 
gain, decibel, battery maintenance resistance, capacitance and bias.
7. Measuring instruments
VoM thermocouple Meter, Valve V oltmeter, decay Meter, SWR Meter Rf 
V oltmeter, Megger
8. circuits and accessories
basic circuit functions, oscillator, mixer, debugger, power supply frequency 
filing including transistor operating elements, transistor area, Metal Oxide 
Semiconductor t ransistors   simple circuits of valve af and Rf transmitters,
will be tested.

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
200
11. General Interview: Not applicable
12. Examination fee:
Examination fee is Rs.600/-. When paying the examination fees, the payment shall be made only under the following 
payment methods provided through the online system.
 i. through any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the facility of internet t ransactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
Note: -
 (a) instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are published on the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
 (b) Receipt of payment will be notified by SMS or e-mail. The full amount of examination fee shall be paid and 
applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
Sri Lanka will not be held responsible for any errors in the payment of examination fees through the above-
mentioned payment methods.
 (c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination by no means.
13. method of Application:
online application forms for examination should be completed only in English Language. the application submitted 
online by the candidate will be notified by SMS to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the e-mail 
address to the effect that the Department has accepted/not accepted the application. Before completing the online 
application, it is required to download the instructions prepared for applying for the examination. the instructions 
given therein shall strictly be followed when filling the application form. 
 Eligibility for admission to the Examination:
 (a) admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to those candidates who have 
submitted their duly completed applications by paying the prescribed examination fee before the closing date 
of applications, within the age limit specified in the notification, on the presumption that only those qualified 
as mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As soon as the issuance of admission cards are issued 
to the candidates, an announcement stating the same will be published on the website of the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka. if the admission cards are not received even after 2 or 3 days upon the publication 
of the announcement, it should be reported to the department of Examinations Sri Lanka, as stated therein.
  
  in such a case, candidate’s full name, address, N.i.c number and the name of the examination should 
be mentioned and when inquiring such details, it is important to retain a photocopy of the application, a 
photocopy of the receipt for the payment of the examination fee and the receipt issued when mailing the 
application in registered post. if the candidate is from outside colombo, it would be useful to send a request 
letter containing the candidate’s fax number and the above information to the fax number mentioned in the 
advertisement to obtain a copy of the admission card via fax.
  (b) a  candidate shall sit for the examination in the examination hall assigned to him, and every candidate shall 
produce their attested admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre on the day of his first 
appearance in that hall. General rules and regulations to be adopted by every candidate in respect of the 
examination are published in this advertisement.
 (c) Issuing of an admission card to a candidate shall not be deemed as he or she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit the examination.
 (d) in case of violation of the rules prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conducting of the examination, they will be subjected to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
201
14. Identity of the Candidate:
Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for that purpose.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving Licence
also, candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can be 
verified. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, he or she must leave 
his/her face and ears uncovered so that the examination authorities can identify the candidate.
16. N.b:
 a. applications of candidates who fail to submit documents when requested will not be considered.
  b. a  copy of the application should be handed over by the candidate to the relevant authorities for inclusion in 
his personal file, and a copy of the application certified by the Head of the institution and a letter of proof 
of service should be submitted at the time of calling for the interview.
17. Selection for Appointment:
Recruitment will be made by calling a number of candidates equal to the number of vacancies from the candidates 
who secure the highest marks, based on the results of a written examination to a general interview. No marks will 
be given for the general interview, which will be held solely for checking the qualifications, certificates and sound 
health.   
18. Release of Results:
In addition to sending the relevant result sheet to the “Director General, Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
Resources”, the results will personally be informed all the candidates who sat for the examination or be released 
through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations.
19. furnishing false Information:
If a candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature may be canceled before the examination 
or during the examination or after the examination or at any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is 
found to be false within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable 
to dismissal from the public service. any matter not considered in these regulations will be dealt with as determined 
by the Public Service commission.
20. in the event of any inconsistency in the notice published in Sinhala, t amil and English media, the notice published in 
Sinhala medium shall prevail.      
 Susantha Kahawatta,
 director General.
department of fisheries and aquatic Resources,
Maligawatta,
colombo10.
24th January, 2024.
02-30

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
202
mINISTR y  Of fIShERIES
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer (Civil) (Sri Lanka 
Technological Service) of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources from amongst the officers 
who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and holding a pensionable post - 2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby invited from the officers who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and holding 
a pensionable post for the Competitive Examination for recruitment to the vacancies in the post of Technical Officer (Civil) 
in Sri Lanka t echnological Service of the department of fisheries and aquatic Resources. Recruitment will be made based 
on the results of the competitive Examination which will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations in 
May, 2024 in colombo.   
The application has been published through “Online Applications - Recruitment Exams” under “Our Services” in 
the website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk  and the applications can only be submitted via 
online. acceptance of online applications will be open on 02nd  february, 2024 at 9.00 a.m.
closing date of application will be 1 st  march, 2024.
Applications are hereby invited from qualified officers currently serving in a pensionable post in the Public/
Provincial Public Service, who fulfil the requirements specified in this notice to fill one (01) vacancy in the Post of Technical 
Officer (Civil) in the Sri Lanka Technological Service of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources. The post 
consists of the duties of preparing estimates, surveying and leveling, quantity surveying for building construction, renovation 
and repair, building design and handling and supervising of janitorial works.
01. Terms of Service:
Candidates to be selected will be appointed to the Post of Technical Officer (Civil) in the Sri Lanka Technological 
Service subject to the general conditions governing appointments in the Public Service and the conditions specified 
in the Scheme of Recruitment approved by the Public Service commission. this post is permanent and pensionable.
02. Salary Group and Salary Scale:
Salary code No: MN 3-2016
Salary Scale: Rs. 31,040 – 10 × 445 – 11 x 660 – 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 –   57,550/- 
03. Educational Qualifications:
Should have passed the G.C.E.(A/L) Examination in three (03) subjects in one and the same sitting with two 
(02) subjects out of Pure Mathematics / Applied Mathematics /Combined Mathematics and Physics/ Engineering 
Technology/ Science for Technology;
and
Should have passed G.C.E.(O/L) Examination in six (06) subjects in one and the same sitting with credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Science, Mathematics and for another one subject. 
04. Professional Qualifications:
 i. National diploma in t echnology (civil Engineering) awarded by the university of Moratuwa or Hardy 
t echnical college, ampara 
 ii. diploma in civil Engineering awarded by the National apprenticeship and V ocational t raining authority
  or
 iii. diploma in civil Engineering t echnology awarded by the open university of Sri Lanka  
  or
 iV . Successful completion of Part i of the institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka 
  or
05. Experience: Not applicable

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
203
06. Physical Requirements: - 
Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and perform the duties in the 
post.
 
07. Others :
 (i) Every candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
      (ii) Should be of excellent character.
                 (iii) The qualifications required for recruitment to the post should have been complied with in all respects 
before the closing date mentioned in the notice inviting applications.
                 (iv)  Should be holding a pensionable post in the Public / Provincial Public Service as on the closing date 
of applications. 
     (v) Should not have been subjected to any disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of 
the Public Service commission circular No. 01/2020.
08.  Age Limit:
age should not be less than 18 years and not more than 30 years as on the closing date of applications. (accordingly, 
the eligibility regarding the age is met only if the date of birth falls on or before 01.03.2006 and on or after 01.03.1994.)
09. method of Recruitment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Eligible candidates 
will be selected having interviewed a number of candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited in order of 
merit of total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination.
 (a) the competitive examination for recruitment will be conducted in Sinhala, t amil and English 
languages.
 (b)  a  candidate applying for the competitive examination shall answer all the papers in the medium of 
language in which he or she is eligible to sit the examination and no any candidate is permitted to 
change the medium of language mentioned in the application later.
10. Written Examination:
 Question Paper Time Total marks Pass marks 
intelligence t est and aptitude 01 hour 100 40%
Subject Related Technical Test 02 hours 100 40%
 Syllabus is given below.
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
intelligence t est and aptitude a  multiple-choice question paper framed under the topics of Numerical 
ability, Problem Solving, Reasoning and General intelligence.
Subject Related Technical Test  Part i
 Consists of multiple-choice questions on environment, scientific discoveries, 
knowledge on Science, international information.
Part ii 
Consists of subject related structured or semi-structured questions.
11. General Interview: Not applicable. 
 

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
204
12. Examination fee:
Examination fee is Rs.600/-. When paying the examination fees, the payment shall be made only under the following 
payment methods provided through the online system:
 i. through any bank credit card,
 ii. any bank debit card with the facility of internet t ransactions,
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon,
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon.
Note: -
 (a) instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are published on the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
 (b) Receipt of payment will be notified by SMS or e-mail. The full amount of examination fee shall be paid and 
applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
- Sri Lanka will not be held responsible for any errors in the payment of examination fees through the  
above-mentioned payment methods.
 (c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination by no means.
13.  method of Application:
online application forms for examination should be completed only in English language. the application submitted 
online by the applicant will be notified by SMS to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the e-mail 
address that the department has accepted/not accepted the application. before completing the online application, it is 
required to download the instructions prepared for applying for the examination. the instructions given therein shall 
strictly be followed when filling the application form. Any amendment made in the application after receipt of the 
printed copy shall not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. 
applications received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained.
14. Eligibility for Admission to the Examination:
 (a) admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to those candidates who have 
submitted their duly completed applications by paying the prescribed examination fee before the closing 
date of receipt of applications, within the age limit specified in the notification, on presumption that only 
those qualified as mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As soon as the issuance of admission 
cards are issued to the applicants, an announcement stating the same will be published on the website of the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka Examinations department examination if the admission cards are 
not received even after 2 or 3 days upon the publication of the announcement, it should be reported to the 
department of Examinations Sri Lanka, as stated therein.
  in such a case, candidate’s full name, address, N.i.c number and the name of the examination should be 
mentioned and it is important to retain a photocopy of the application, a photocopy of the receipt related to 
the payment of the examination fee and the receipt issued when mailing the application in registered post. if 
the candidate is from outside colombo, it would be useful to send a request letter containing the candidate’s 
fax number and the above information to the fax number mentioned in the advertisement to obtain a copy 
of the admission card via fax. a  candidate appearing for the examination shall submit his/her duly attested 
admission card to the examination hall. a  candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination.
 (b) a  candidate shall sit for the examination in the examination hall assigned to him, and every candidate shall 
produce their attested admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre on the day of his first 
appearance in that hall. General rules and regulations to be adopted by every candidate in respect of the 
examination are published in this advertisement.
 (c) Issuing of an admission card to a candidate shall not be deemed as he or she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit the examination.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
205
 (d) in case of violation of the rules prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conducting of the examination, they will be subjected to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
15.  Identity of the Candidate:
Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for that purpose:
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving License
also, candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can be 
verified. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, he or she must leave 
his/her face and ears uncovered so that the examination authorities can identify the candidate.
16. N.B:
 a.  applications of candidates who fail to submit documents when requested will not be considered.
  b. a  copy of the application should be handed over by the candidate to the relevant authorities for 
inclusion in his personal file, and a copy of the application certified by the Head of the institution and 
a letter of proof of service should be submitted at the time of calling for the interview.
17. Selection for Appointment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written examination and a general interview. Eligible candidates 
will be selected having interviewed a number of candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited in order of 
merit of the total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination.
18. Release of Results:
In addition to sending the relevant result sheet to the “Director General, Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
Resources”, the results will personally  be informed all the candidates who sat for the examination or be released 
through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations .
19. furnishing false Information:
If a candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature may be cancelled before the examination 
or during the examination or after the examination or at any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is 
found to be false within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable 
to dismissal from the public service. any matter not considered in these regulations will be dealt with as determined 
by the Public Service commission.
20.  in the event of any inconsistency in the notice published in Sinhala, tamil and English media, the notice published in 
Sinhala medium shall prevail.
            
Susantha Kahawatta,
director General,
department of fisheries and aquatic Resources,
Maligawatta,
colombo10.
24th January, 2024.
02-31

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
206
mINISTR y  Of fIShERIES
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Quality Control Officer Grade Il in the Field/
Office Base -Seg 2 Service Category of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources from amongst 
the officers who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and holding a pensionable post 
-2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby invited from the officers who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and holding 
a pensionable post for recruitment to the post of Quality Control Officer Grade Il (in the Field/Office Base -Seg 2 Service 
category) of the department of fisheries and aquatic Resources. Rrecruitment will be made based on the results of a 
competitive Examination which will be conducted by the commissioner General of Examinations in May, 2024 in colombo.
   
The application has been published through “Online Applications - Recruitment Exams” under “Our Services” in 
the website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk and the applications can only be submitted via 
online. acceptance of online applications will be open on 02
nd  february, 2024 at 9.00 a.m.
closing date of application will be 01 st  march,  2024.
Applications are hereby invited from qualified officers currently serving in a pensionable post in the Public/
Provincial Public Service, who fulfil the requirements specified in this notice to fill eight (08) vacancies in the Post of 
Quality Control Officer Grade Il (in the Field/Office Base -Seg 2 Service Category) of the Department of Fisheries and 
Aquatic Resources. The duties of this post include the inspection of fishing vessels, fish auction sites, fish landing sites, 
fish stores, fish processing establishments for export and fish sales outlets, obtaining official samples (ice, water, fish, fish-
related products, etc.) and submitting them to laboratories , analyzing test reports, checking for approval of laboratories 
required to test fishery products, checking whether the necessary conditions are maintained after approval, certifying health  
certificates issued for fishery products, auditing the method of ensuring the hygiene of fishery products, supervising the tests 
and analyzes issued by the Sri Lanka Standards Institute, supervising the maintenance of fish export activities in accordance 
with international standards and according to the criteria of the European Economic commission, conducting awareness 
programs for fish exporters about new technology and quality control management methods, conducting awareness programs 
for the community engaged in fish farming activities etc.
01. Terms of Service:
Candidates to be selected will be appointed to the Post of Quality Control Officer Grade II subject to the general 
conditions governing the appointments in the Public Service and the conditions specified in the Scheme of Recruitment 
approved by the Public Service commission. this post is permanent and pensionable.
02. Salary Group and Salary Scale:
Salary code No: MN 5-2016
Salary Scale: Rs. 34,605 – 10 × 660 – 11 x 755 – 15 x 930 – Rs. 63,460/- 
03. Educational Qualifications:
 (a) A Bachelor of Science Degree with at least two subjects in Biology, Microbiology, Zoology, Chemistry, 
fisheries Science, food Science, food t echnology from a university recognized by the university Grants 
Commission;
  or 
     a Bachelor of Science Degree in Agriculture with at least two of the above subjects.
  and
 (B)  Having passed English as a major subject in a degree course,
  or 
  Having passed the English Language subject at the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) 
Examination,
  or 

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
207
  Having obtained a credit Pass for English Language/English Literature at the G.c.E.(o/L) Examination, 
  or 
  Having passed the General Certificate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination or an examination higher 
than it in English medium.
04. Professional Qualifications: Not applicable
05. Experience: Not applicable
06. Physical Requirements: -
Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and perform the duties in the 
post. 
07. Others :
 (i)  Every candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 (ii)  Should be of excellent character.
 (iii)  The qualifications required for recruitment to the post should have been complied with in all respects 
before the closing date mentioned in the notice inviting applications.
 (iv)  Should be holding a pensionable post in the Public / Provincial Public Service as on the closing date 
of applications.
 (v)  Should not have been subjected to any disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of 
the Public Service commission circular No. 01/2020.
08. Age Limit:
age should not be less than 21 years and not more than 35 years as on the closing date of applications. (accordingly, 
the eligibility regarding the age is satisfied only if the date of birth falls on or before 01.03.2003 and on or after 
01.03.1989.)
09. method of Recruitment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written competitive examination. a number of candidates who 
secured the highest marks in order of priority and equal to the existing number of vacancies, from among the 
candidates who have appeared for all the question papers at the written examination and scored not less than 40% 
marks for each question paper will be interviewed and be recruited for the post in order of merit according to the 
number of vacancies. No marks will be given for the general interview and the basic qualifications will be only 
checked.
 (a) the competitive examination for recruitment will be conducted in Sinhala, tamil and English 
mediums.
 (b) a  candidate applying for the competitive examination shall answer all the papers in the medium of 
language in which he or she is eligible to sit the examination and no any candidate is permitted to 
change the medium of language mentioned in the application later.
10. Written Examination :
Subjects Time Total marks Pass marks 
01. intelligence test 01 hour 100 40%
02. Essay and Precis 01 ½ hour 100 40%
03. General Knowledge 01 hour 100 40%.

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
208
10.1. Syllabus is given below:
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
i. intelligence t est 
this is framed with the aim of gauging the candidate’s rational thinking and 
analysis power and the ability to arrive at correct case inferences, general 
knowledge and intelligence. this is a multiple-choice question paper that 
includes mathematical problems, general knowledge, environment and 
related issues.
ii. Essay and Precis  this is a question paper gauging the ability to read, understand and analyze a 
statement or discussion paper about a current social event and to measure the 
ability of essay / precis writing. 
iii. General Knowledge a  few questions framed in order to gauge the basic knowledge of Sri Lanka 
as well as the world in relation to the important events in the fields of finance, 
economy, commerce, politics, international relations, management, science 
and technology, education, health, sports, environment, social and culture, 
especially the local and foreign fisheries sector are expected to be answered.
11. General Interview:  Not applicable.  
12. Examination fee:
Examination fee is Rs.600/-. When paying the examination fees, the payment shall be made only under the following 
payment methods provided through the online system.
 i. through any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the facility of internet t ransactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
Note: -
 (a) instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are published on the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
 (b) Receipt of payment will be notified by SMS or e-mail. The full amount of examination fee shall be paid and 
applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
- Sri Lanka will not be held responsible for any errors in the payment of examination fees through the above-
mentioned payment methods.
 (c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination by no 
means.
13. method of Application:
online application forms for examination should be completed only in English language. the application submitted 
online by the applicant will be notified by SMS to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the e-mail 
address that the department has accepted/not accepted the application. before completing the online application, it is 
required to download the instructions prepared for applying for the examination. the instructions given therein shall 
strictly be followed when filling the application form. Any amendment made in the application after receipt of the 
printed copy shall not be considered as a valid amendment. Incomplete applications will be rejected without notice. 
applications received after the closing date of applications will not be entertained.
14. Eligibility for Admission to the Examination:
 (a) admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to those candidates who have 
submitted their duly completed applications by paying the prescribed examination fee before the closing 
date of receipt of applications, within the age limit specified in the notification, on presumption that only 
those qualified as mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As soon as the issuance of admission 
cards are issued to the applicants, an announcement stating the same will be published on the website of the 
department of Examinations, Sri Lanka Examinations department examination if the admission cards are 
not received even after 2 or 3 days upon the publication of the announcement, it should be reported to the 
department of Examinations Sri Lanka, as stated therein.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
209
  in such a case, candidate’s full name, address, N.i.c number and the name of the examination should be 
mentioned and it is important to retain a photocopy of the application, a photocopy of the receipt related to 
the payment of the examination fee and the receipt issued when mailing the application in registered post. if 
the candidate is from outside colombo, it would be useful to send a request letter containing the candidate’s 
fax number and the above information to the fax number mentioned in the advertisement to obtain a copy 
of the admission card via fax. a candidate appearing for the examination shall submit his/her duly attested 
admission card to the examination hall. a candidate who fails to produce his/her admission card will not be 
allowed to sit for the examination.
  (b) a  candidate shall sit for the examination in the examination hall assigned to him, and every candidate shall 
produce their attested admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre on the day of his first 
appearance in that hall. General rules and regulations to be adopted by every candidate in respect of the 
examination are published in this advertisement.
 (c) Issuing of an admission card to a candidate shall not be deemed as he or she has fulfilled the qualifications 
to sit the examination.
 (d) in case of violation of the rules prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conducting of the examination, they will be subjected to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
15. Identity of the Candidate:
Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for that purpose.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving License
also, candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can be 
verified. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, he or she must leave 
his/her face and ears uncovered so that the examination authorities can identify the candidate.
16. N.b:
 a. applications of the candidates who fail to submit documents when requested will not be considered.
 b. a  copy of the application should be handed over by the candidate to the relevant authorities for inclusion 
in his personal file, and a copy of the application certified by the Head of the institution and a letter of 
proof of service should be submitted at the time of calling for the interview.
17. Selection for Appointment:
the eligible candidates who secured the highest marks in order of merit, having interviewed a number of candidates 
who scored the highest marks in order of priority and equal to twice the existing number of vacancies, from among 
the candidates who have appeared for all the question papers at the written examination and scored not less than 40% 
marks for each question paper, will be selected to be appointed to the post of Quality Control Officer II.
18. Release of Results:
In addition to sending the relevant result sheet to the “Director General, Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
Resources”, the results will personally  be informed all the candidates who sat for the examination or be released 
through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations .
19. furnishing false Information:
If a candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature may be canceled before the examination 
or during the examination or after the examination or at any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is 
found to be false within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable 

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
210
to dismissal from the public service. any matter not considered in these regulations will be dealt with as determined 
by the Public Service commission.
20. in the event of any inconsistency in the notice published in Sinhala, tamil and English media, the notice   published 
in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
Susantha Kahawatta,
director General,
department of fisheries and aquatic Resources,
Maligawatta,
colombo10.
24.01.2024 
02-32
_________________________________________
mINISTR y Of  fIShERIES
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Fisheries Officer Grade III (Associate Officer 
Service Category) of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources from amongst the officers who 
are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and holding a pensionable post -2024
aPPLicatioNS  are hereby invited from the officers who are already in the Public / Provincial Public Service and holding 
a pensionable post for the Competitive Examination to be held to recruit to the vacancies in the post of Fisheries Officer 
Grade III (Associate Officer Service Category) of the Department of Fisheries and Aquatics Resources. Recruitment will 
be made based on the results of the competitive Examination which will be conducted by the commissioner General of 
Examinations in May, 2024 in colombo.   
the application has been published via “Online Applications - Recruitment Exams” under “Our Services” in the 
website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka www.doenets.lk and the applications can only be submitted via 
online. acceptance of online applications will be open on 02
nd  february, 2024 at 9.00 a.m. after submitting the application 
online, it should be downloaded, and then by filling relevant parts of the printed copy in handwriting and upon the signature 
of the applicant being attested, the same should be sent by registered post to reach the department of Examinations of Sri 
Lanka on or before the closing date of applications along with the certificate of the Head of the Institution concerned.
closing date of application will be 01
st  march  2024.
Applications are hereby invited from qualified officers currently serving in a pensionable post in the Public/
Provincial Public Service, who fulfil the requirements specified in this notice to fill fifty (50) vacancies in the Post of 
Fisheries Officers remaining in 15 Coastal District Fisheries Offices and 149 Fisheries Inspector’s Divisions around the 
Island. Duties of this post include field duties in coastal areas, combatting illegal fishing and related activities, night duties 
etc.
01. Terms of Service:
Candidates to be selected will be appointed to the Post of Fisheries Officer Grade III subject to the general conditions 
governing the appointments in the Public Service and the conditions specified in the Scheme of Recruitment approved 
by the Public Service commission. this post is permanent and pensionable.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
211
02. Salary Group and Salary Scale:
Salary code No.: MN 4-2016
Salary Scale: Rs. 31,490 – 10 × 445 – 11 x 660 – 10 x 730 – 10 x 750 –   54,250/- 
03. Educational Qualifications:
Having a Degree in Biology, Microbiology, Zoology, Fisheries Science, Fisheries and Marine Science, Food Science, 
food t echnology, Economics, Management or Sociology from a university recognized by the university Grants 
Commission or a Degree which includes one of the above subjects as the principle subjects in the degree Course.
04. Professional Qualifications: Not applicable
05. Experience: Not applicable
06. Physical Requirements: - 
Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve in any part of Sri Lanka (including the Islands 
belonging to the territory of Sri Lanka) and perform the duties in the post. 
07. Others:
 (i) Every candidate should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
     (ii) Should be of excellent character.
     (iii) The qualifications required for recruitment to the post should have been complied with all respects 
before the closing date mentioned in the notice inviting applications.
    (iv) Should be a holder of pensionable post in the Public / Provincial Public Service as on the date of calling 
for applications.
 (v)  Should not have been subject to disciplinary punishment in accordance with the provisions of the 
Public Service commission circular No. 01/2020.
 08. Age Limit:
age should not be less than 21 years and not more than 35 years as on the closing date of applications. (accordingly, 
the eligibility regarding the age is satisfied only if the date of birth falls on or before 01.03.2003 and on or after 
01.03.1989.)
09. method of Recruitment:
Recruitment will be made based on the results of a written examination and a structured interview. Eligible candidates 
will be selected having interviewed a number of candidates equal to the number expected to be recruited in order of 
merit of the total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination.
 (a) the competitive examination for recruitment will be conducted in Sinhala, t amil and English languages.
 (b) a  candidate applying for the competitive examination shall answer all the papers in the medium of 
language in which he or she applied and no any candidate is permitted to change the medium of language 
mentioned in the application later.
10.   Written Examination:
 
Question Paper Time Total marks Pass marks 
1. intelligence t est 01 hour 100 40%
2. General Knowledge 02 hours 100 40%

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
212
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
intelligence t est 
this is framed with the aim of gauging the candidate’s rational thinking and 
analysis power and ability to arrive at correct case inferences, and intelligence. 
this question paper consists of 50 questions in multiple choice and short 
answer mode and all the questions have to be answered.
General Knowledge this is a question paper framed in order to gauge the basic knowledge of Sri 
Lanka as well as the world in relation to the important events in the fields of 
finance, economy, commerce, politics, international relations, management, 
science and technology, education, health, sports, environment, social and 
culture, especially the local and foreign fisheries sector. This question paper 
consists of 50 questions in multiple choice and short answer mode and all the 
questions have to be answered.
11. Structured Interview:
headings to which marks are allotted maximum marks minimum marks considered for 
selection
Extra Educational Qualifications 15
      Not applicable
computer Related Knowledge 15
Proficiency in English Language 05
Merits shown at the interview 15
t otal 50
12. Examination fee:
Examination fee is Rs.600/-. When paying the examination fees, the payment shall be made only under the following 
payment methods provided through the online system.
 i. through any bank credit card
 ii. any bank debit card with the facility of internet t ransactions
 iii. online banking Method of bank of ceylon
 iv. any branch of the bank of ceylon
Note: -
 (a) instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are published on the website under the 
technical instructions related to the examination.
 (b) Receipt of payment will be notified by SMS or e-mail. The full amount of examination fee shall be paid and 
applications with under or over payment of examination fee shall be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
Sri Lanka will not be held responsible for any errors in the payment of examination fees through the above-
mentioned payment methods.
 (c) the amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination by no 
means.
13. method of Application:
online application forms for examination should be completed only in English Language. the application submitted 
online by the candidate will be notified by SMS to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the e-mail 
address to the effect that the Department has accepted/not accepted the application. Before completing the online 
application, it is required to download the instructions prepared for applying for the examination. the instructions 
given therein shall strictly be followed when filling the application form. 
14. Eligibility for admission to the Examination:
 (a) admission cards will be issued by the commissioner General of Examinations to those candidates who have 
submitted their duly completed applications by paying the prescribed examination fee before the closing date 
of applications, within the age limit specified in the notification, on the presumption that only those qualified 

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
213
as mentioned in the Gazette Notification have applied. As soon as the issuance of admission cards are issued 
to the candidates, an announcement stating the same will be published on the website of the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka. if the admission cards are not received even after 2 or 3 days upon the publication 
of the announcement, it should be reported to the department of Examinations Sri Lanka, as stated therein.
  
  in such a case, candidate’s full name, address, N.i.c number and the name of the examination should be 
mentioned and when inquiring such details, it is important to retain a photocopy of the application, a 
photocopy of the receipt for the payment of the examination fee and the receipt issued when mailing the 
application in registered post. if the candidate is from outside colombo, it would be useful to send a request 
letter containing the candidate’s fax number and the above information to the fax number mentioned in the 
advertisement to obtain a copy of the admission card via fax. a candidate appearing for the examination shall 
submit his/her duly attested admission card to the examination hall. a candidate who fails to produce his/her 
admission card will not be allowed to sit for the examination.
  (b) a  candidate shall sit for the examination in the examination hall assigned to him, and every candidate shall 
produce their attested admission card to the Supervisor of the Examination Centre on the day of his first 
appearance in that hall. General rules and regulations to be adopted by every candidate in respect of the 
examination are published in this advertisement.
 (c) Issuing of an admission card to a candidate shall not be deemed as he or she has fulfilled the qualifications to 
sit the examination.
 (d) in case of violation of the rules prescribed by the commissioner General of Examinations regarding the 
conducting of the examination, they will be subjected to a penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations. 
15. Identity of the Candidate:
Candidates should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the Supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. any of the following documents will be accepted for that purpose.
 i. National identity card
 ii. Valid Passport
 iii. Valid Sri Lankan driving License
also, candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their face and ears so that their identity can be 
verified. Candidates who refuse to prove their identity will not be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall until the end of the examination and leaving it, he or she must leave 
his/her face and ears uncovered so that the examination authorities can identify the candidate.
16. N.b:
 a. applications of candidates who fail to submit documents when requested will not be considered.
  b. a  copy of the application should be handed over by the candidate to the relevant authorities for inclusion in 
his personal file, and a copy of the application certified by the Head of the institution and a letter of proof of 
service should be submitted at the time of calling for the interview.
17. Selection for Appointment:
Recruitment is based on the results of a written competitive examination and a structured interview. in order of merit 
of the total marks of the candidates who pass the written examination, twice the number of male candidates equal to 
75% of the number expected to be recruited and twice the number of female candidates equal to 25% of the number 
expected to be recruited will be subjected to the structured interview. 75% of the expected number of male candidates 
and 25% of the female candidates who have secured the highest marks according to the merit of the aggregated marks 
of both the written examination and the structured interview will be selected for appointment based on the number 
of vacancies.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
214
18. Release of Results:
In addition to sending the relevant result sheet to the “Director General, Department of Fisheries and Aquatic 
Resources”, the results will personally be informed all the candidates who sat for the examination or be released 
through the website www.results.exams.gov.lk by the commissioner General of Examinations.
19. furnishing false Information:
If a candidate is found not to have required qualifications, his/her candidature may be cancelled before the examination 
or during the examination or after the examination or at any time. if any of the particulars furnished by a candidate is 
found to be false within his /her knowledge or if he/she has willfully suppressed any material fact he/she will be liable 
to dismissal from the public service. any matter not considered in these regulations will be dealt with as determined 
by the Public Service commission.
20.  in the event of any inconsistency in the notice published in Sinhala, t amil and English media, the notice published in 
Sinhala medium shall prevail.
            
Susantha Kahawatta,
director General,
department of fisheries and aquatic Resources,
Maligawatta,
colombo 10,
24th January, 2024.
02-33
_____________________________________________
amendment
AuDIT  SER vICE  COmmISSION
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Officers in the Public Service to the Post of Audit 
Officer of the Audit Examiners' Service – 2023
aS  per the cabinet decision No. cP/23/0386/605/012-i (a) dated 02 January 2024 in the Parliament of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the "Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Officers in the Public Service 
to the Post of Audit Officer of the Audit Examiners' Service – 2023", the following amendments are made to the Notification 
No. 431 in the Gazette No. 2356 dated 27.10.2023 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(i) the title of the aforesaid Gazette notification "Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Officers in 
the Public Service to the Post of Audit Officer of the Audit Examiners' Service" should be amended as "Limited 
Competitive Examination for Recruitment of Officers in the Public Service to the Post of Audit Officer in 
Grade ii of the class iii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service."
(ii) The words "Post of Audit Officer of the Audit Examiners' Service" should be amended as "Post of Audit Officer 
in Grade ii of the class iii of the Sri Lanka State audit Service" at its every appearance in the above Gazette 
Notification.
(iii) the date of Examination, Paragraph No. 1, Paragraph No. 2 (i), Paragraph No. 3, Paragraph No. 5 (ii), Paragraph 
No. 7 (a) and Paragraph No. 7(c) of the aforesaid  Gazette Notification should be amended as follows.
i. date of Examination – the examination will be held by the commissioner General of Examinations 
in colombo within the month of May 2024. the audit Service commission reserves the right to 
postpone or cancel this examination.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA –02.02.2024
215
ii. 1. The number of persons to be appointed and the effective date of appointment will be determined 
by the Audit Service Commission. The Audit Service Commission reserves the right not to fill any or 
all of the vacancies.
iii. 2. (i) The selected candidates will be appointed to the Post of Audit Officer in Grade II of the Class 
III of the Sri Lanka State Audit Service subject to the general conditions governing the appointments 
of the Public Service published at the beginning of the Paragraph ii (a) of Part i of the Gazette, 
conditions set out in the Service minute of the Sri Lanka State audit Service published in the Gazette 
extraordinary No. 2366/31 dated 12 January 2024 of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, 
the amendments to be made hereafter to the said Service Minute and the conditions included in the 
cabinet decision No. cP/23/0386/605/012-i dated 08
th march 2023 on "Review of Recruitment 
Procedure of the Public Service" as well as the conditions set forth in the cabinet decision No. 
cP/23/0386/605/012-i(a) dated 02 January 2024 on "Limited competitive Examination for 
Recruitment of Officers in the Public Service to the Post of Audit Officer of the Audit Examiners' 
Service – 2023"
iV . 3. Salary scale – The salary scale belonging to the post of Audit Officer of Grade II in class III of Sri 
Lanka State audit Service as per the Service Minute of Sri Lanka State audit Service pertaining to 
salary code number aS-01-a  is 37,905-10x660-11x775-15x930-66,760/- per month.
V.  5 (ii) As on 24 November 2023, Public Service/ Provincial Public Service Officers should be not less 
than 22 years and not more than 40 years of age as on the date of application. accordingly, only those 
whose date of birth is on or before 24.11.2001 and on or after 24.11.1983 are eligible to apply.)
Vi. 7 (a) application has been posted through "online application – Recruitment Exams" under "our 
Services" on the website www.doenets.lk  in department of Examinations, Sri Lanka and applications 
can be submitted only through online system. acceptance of online applications opens at 9.00 a.m. 
on 02.02.2024.
Vii. 7. (c) Receipt of applications will close at 12.00 midnight on 01.03.2024.
Viii. in the aforesaid Gazette Notification, the term "by the Auditor General" in Paragraph No. 04 should 
be amended as "by the Audit Service Commission" and "by the Auditor General" in the first note and 
second note in (b) of Paragraph No. 5 should be amended as "by the audit Service commission" 
and "by the auditor General" in Paragraph No. 11 should be amended as "by the audit Service 
commission" and "by the auditor General" in Paragraph No.13 (b) should be amended as "by the 
auditor Service commission", the auditor General reserves" in Paragraph No. 14 should be amended 
as "the audit Service commission reserves" and "to the auditor General" in Paragraph No. 15 should 
be amended as "to the audit Service commission" and "decision of the auditor General" in Paragraph 
No. 16 should be amended as "decision of the audit Service commission.
apart from the aforementioned amendments included in this announcement, the matters included in the Gazette 
announcement No. 431 of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2356 published 
on 27.10.2023 (including the syllabus of the written test) remain unchanged. accordingly, applicants who have 
already submitted applications are not required to apply again.
 D. K. Wijesinghe,
 Secretary,
 audit Service commission.
31
st  January, 2024.
02-121

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'02'02
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.02.2024
216
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEPaRtMENt  of  GoVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNKa.
ImPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PubLICATION   Of   GAZETTE
tHE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
fridays. if a friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
the Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be 
received for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below 
will not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return 
if publication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. it will be in the interest of all concerned if those 
desirous of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is 
allowed for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2024
    
 fEbRuAR y 02.02.2024 friday –– 19.01.2024 friday 12 noon
  09.02.2024 friday –– 26.01.2024 friday 12 noon
  16.02.2024 friday –– 02.02.2024 friday 12 noon
  22.02.2024 thursday –– 09.02.2024 friday 12 noon
 mARCh  01.03.2024 friday –– 16.02.2024 friday 12 noon
  07.03.2024 thursday –– 22.02.2024 thursday 12 noon
  15.03.2024 friday –– 01.03.2024 friday 12 noon
  22.03.2024 firday –– 07.03.2024 thursday 12 noon
  28.03.2024 thursday –– 15.03.2024 friday 12 noon
 APRIL  05.04.2024 friday –– 22.03.2024 friday 12 noon
  10.04.2024 Wednesday –– 28.03.2024 thursday 12 noon
  19.04.2024 friday –– 05.04.2024 friday 12 noon
  26.04.2024 friday –– 10.04.2024 Wednesday 12 noon
  
 Gangani Liyanage,
 Government Printer. 
department of Government Printing,
colombo 08,  
01st January, 2024.