

<!-- page 1 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
447
447
¡â¤ 1 ,442 _ 2006  ¡ïÀòà¨à 21 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.04.21
No. 1,442 – FRIDAY ,  APRIL 21,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 450
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 453
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 28 th April, 2006 should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 12th April , 2006.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N. B.– Part I(IIA) and Part IV (A) of the Gazette No. 1,441 of 12.04.2006 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
448
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
449
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B2—B 079209

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
450
Posts - Vacant
BUDDHASRA V AKA     BHIKSU     UNIVERSITY –
ANURADHAPURA
Post   of    Mahopadhyaya
APPLICATIONS are hereby invited from the qualified Bhiksus for
the post of Mahopadhyaya of the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University
in Anuradhapura established under the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu
University Act, No. 26 of 1996.
The applicant should be an Upasampadha Bhiksu who has
completed 20 years after Upasampadha with a moral conduct in
Dharma and Vinaya and holding a Postgraduate Degree in Buddhist
Studies from a recognized university and proficient in Oriental
Languages.
The Mahopadhyaya shall be full time officer of the University
and shall be the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Academic
Officer. According to the act, the duration of the post of
Mahopadhyaya is appointed for 03 years. The Mahopadhyaya
shall be solely responsible for the maintenance of discipline within
the university and to give effect and/or ensure that effect is given to
the decision of the Senate and the Council with regard to all academic
and administrative matters.
The Mahopadhyaya shall be entitled to a monthly salary and
other relevant allowances approved by the Government. The
prospective candidate should not exceed 62 years of age on 7
th July,
2006.  If the prospective candidate is serving in the University
System, Government Service, Corporations or Statutory Boards at
present, he should forward his application through the head of the
respective institution along with a letter stating that he could be
released from his present post if he is selected. This clause does not
apply to the Bhiksus of the Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University of
Anuradhapura. Residential facilities could be provided inside the
university premises.
Applicants should forward their applications with the curriculum
vitae and a mission (proposals) statement to be implemented during
the 03 years period of the development of the university. Applications
should be forwarded under registered cover to the Registrar or the
Secretary of the Council, Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University, Nandana
Mawatha, Anuradhapura on or before 05
th May, 2006. The post of
“Mahopadhyaya” should be written on the top left-hand corner of
the envelope.
Registrar/Secretary to the Council.
Buddhasravaka Bhiksu University,
Nandana Mawatha,
Anuradhapura.
04th April, 2006.
04-301
CADETSHIP   IN  THE  SRI  LANKA   ARMY    REGULAR
FORCE
Commission with a Defence Degree
APPLICATIONS are invited for cadetship in the Sri Lanka Army
Regular Force. Selected candidates will be trained in Sri Lanka.
2. After successful completion of the period of military training
and academic subjects, cadets will be commissioned in the rank of
Second Lieutenant with a Defence Degree awarded by the
Sabaragamuwa University.
3. Eligibility.– Candidates should.-
(a) Be citizens of Sri Lanka;
(b) Be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of
age on 31st May, 2006;
(c) Have obtained three (03) passes with an aggregate of 135
marks at the GCE (A/L) Examination (New Syllabus) and
a Credit pass in English Language and a pass in Mathematics
in not more than two sittings at the GCE (O/L)
Examination;
(d) Be 5' 5'' and above in height;
(e) Be unmarried. No cadet will be permitted to marry whilst
under training;
(f)Conform to the required medical standard. All candidates
selected by the Final Interview Board will be medicaly
examined under Sri Lanka Army arrangement before
enlistment.
4. Conditions of Service :
(a) Candidates will be enlisted as Cadets on a normal regular
engagement for a period of ten years initially.
(b) The pay of a cadet while under training will be in accordance
with the Army Pay Code and will be Rs. 115,320 Transport,
Uniforms, Medical Facilities, Food and Accommodation
will be provided free of charge. He will not be entitled to
any increments of pay during the period of service as a
Cadet.
(c) Cadets will be required to undergo such training as may be
prescribed by the Command of the Army. The period of
training will be approximately thirty months.
(d) The status of Cadets during this period will be that of an
Other Rank and they will be subject to Military Law.
(e) (i) In the event of a Cadet voluntarily terminating his
candidature for a Commission during his period of
training, the parents or guardian will be required to
refund to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka  all the expenses incurred up to that time by the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the
cadet’s account.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
451
(ii) If at any time during his course, a Cadet is reported by
the authorities to be unsuitable for reasons of
misconduct, or for causes within his own control for
the issue of a Commission, his parents or guardian
will be required to refund to the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka all expenses incurred by the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the
Cadet’s account.
(f)On appointment to Commission, Cadets will be discharged
from the Regular Force engagement they entered into as
Cadets.
(g) On commissioning as Officers they will be expected to
serve the Army for a minimum period of 10 years.
(h) On commissioning as Officers in the Regular Force of the
Sri Lanka Army in the commencing rank of Second
Lieutenant they will be placed on the following salary
scale applicable to the officers of the Sri Lanka Army :
Second Lieutenant – Rs. 124,680 per annum
Rs. 10,390 per month;
Lieutenant – Rs. 157,500 - 9 x 3,780 - Rs. 191,520
per annum
Rs. 13,125 - 9 x 315 - Rs. 15,960
per month;
Captain – Rs. 180,180 - 9 x 3,780 - Rs. 214,200
per annum;
Rs. 15,015 - 9 x 315 - Rs. 17,850
per month;
Major – Rs. 202,860 - 7 x 3,780 - 1 x 4,200 -
2 x 6,300 - Rs. 246,120 per annum
– Rs. 16,905 - 7 x 315 - 1 x 350 -
2 x 525 - Rs. 20,510 per month;
Lieutenant Colonel – Rs. 214,980 - 2 x 7,740 - 5 x 8,580 -
Rs. 273,360 per annum
Rs. 17,915 - 2 x 645 - 5 x 715 Rs.
22,789 per  month;
Colonel – Rs. 276,540 - 7 x 11,880 - Rs.
359,700 per annum
Rs. 23,045 - 7 x 990 - Rs. 29,975
per month;
Brigadier – Rs. 300,300 - 8 x 11,880 -
Rs. 395,340 per annum
Rs. 25,025 - 8 x 990 - Rs. 32,945
per month;
Major General – Rs. 345,600 - 6 x 12,360 -
Rs. 419,760 per annum
Rs. 28,800 - 6 x 1,030 - Rs. 34,980
per month;
Lieutenant General –Rs. 370,320 - 5 x 12,360 -
Rs. 432,120 per annum
Rs. 30,860 - 5 x 1,030 - Rs. 36,010
per month.
(i) Officers will be governed by the following regulations in
respect of their pay, prospects and conditions of service :
(1) The Army Pay Code;
(2) Regulations for Officers, 1992, published in
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Government Gazette No. 780/7 dated 17th August,
1993 and as amended from time to time;
(3) The Army Pensions and Gratuities Code, 1981.
5. Parents or guardians will be required to sign a
declaration as shown in Paragraph 6 below and these
should be forwarded with the application. Parents or
guardian of selected candidates will be required to
enter into a Bond substantially in the form of the
declaration, with the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka prior to the appointment of these
candidates.
6. Declaration to be signed by parent or guardian of the
applicant :
(a) I am the parent/guardian* of ………… who is an
applicant for a Cadetship in the Army.
(b) I hereby undertake to be responsible, in the event
of the above-named applicant being selected to
attend a course of training in Sri Lanka for the
following :
(1) All private expenses which the applicant may
incur during the period of his training;
(2) To refund to the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred on his
account by the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka in the event of the above named
applicant voluntarily terminating his
candidature for a Commission during the period
of his training.
(3) To refund to the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka all the expenses incurred on his
account by the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka if at any time during his period of
training, the above-named applicant is reported
by the authorities to be unsuitable (for reasons
of misconduct or for causes within his control)
for the issue of a Commission.
*Strike out whichever is inapplicable.
Date :————. ——————,
Signature.
Name and Address (In block capitals) :—————.
Date :————. ——————,
Signature of Witness.
Name and Address (In block capitals) :
Date :————. ——————,
Signature.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
452
7. Language requirement.– Selected candidates will be required
to comply with any Regulations already made or that may hereafter
be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
8. Proof of Identity.- Candidates will be required to produce proof
as to their identity. Identity Cards issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons or Postmaster General or Certificate of
competence issued by the Commissioner of Motor Traffic and
Passport issued by the Department of Immigration/Emigration will
be accepted for this purpose.
9. Applications from candidates in Government Service should
be forwarded through the Heads of Departments concerned and
should bear a certificate to the effect that the candidates can be
released, if selected.
10. Applications.- Applications should be submitted in
applicant’s own handwriting in terms of the forms specified below
and should be forwarded to the Director, Personnel Administration,
Army Headquarters, P. O. Box 553, Colombo, so as to reach there
not later than 12 noon on 15th May, 2006. The envelope enclosing
the application should be marked “Applications for Cadetship in
the Army”. Applications received at Army Headquarters after closing
date and time will not be entertained. Application forms will not be
issued.
11. Applications should be accompanied by copies of :
(a) Certificate of Registration of birth ;
(b) Certificate in support of educational qualifications claimed;
(b) At least two recent certificates of character from responsible
persons who are personally acquainted with the applicant,
one of whom should be the Principal of the last school
attended by applicant.
12. Preliminary selections will be made from amongst those
candidates who fulfill the above conditions. Candidates so selected
will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the
Commander of the Army. The final selections will be made after an
interview of those selected candidates, by a Selection Board appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
13. Candidates selected for interviews by the Selection Board
will informed in writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
The interviews will take place in Colombo. No Travelling or other
expenses will be paid by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka in this respect.
14. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so
by giving him a testimonial, any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence in the selection of a candidate will disqualify such candidate.
15. Applicants who are not qualified for enlistment will  not  be
notified. Inquiries pertaining to such disqualification will not be
entertained.
G. S. C. F
ONSEKA , RWP RSP rcds psc.,
Lieutenant General,
Commander of the Army.
Army Headquarters,
P. O. Box 553,
Colombo,
05th April, 2006.
APPLICATION FOR CADETSHIP IN THE SRI LANKA
ARMY
01. (a) Surname (In block letters) :————.
(b) Other Names :————.
(c) Name with initials :————.
02. (a) Address :————.
(b) Telephone No. :————.
(c) Electoral District :————.
(d) Grama Niladhari Division :————.
03. Nationality (State whether Sri Lankan by decent or by registration,
if latter, quote number and date of certificate) :————.
04. (a) Date of Birth (To be supported by a copy of Birth
Certificate. Baptismal Certificate or certificates issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted) :————.
(b) Age on 31 st  May, 2006;
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
(c) Height :————.
05. Nearest Police Station :————.
06. Father’s name and nationality at his birth (If nationalised, give
date and number of certificate) :————.
07. Mother’s name and nationality at her birth :————.
08. Give the following particulars of your school career :
Name of Date of Date of Last Public
school joining leaving Examination attended
09. Educational Qualifications (Examinations should be stated
separately) :
Examination and No. Year Subjects Passed Gradings
10. What athletic distinctions have you obtained in school :—–—.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
453
11. What other achievements of note do you have to your credit in
school :————.
12. Service with V olunteer Organizations, such as the National Cadet
Corps, Boy Scout Organization, Sri Lanka V olunteer Force, etc.
:————.
13. Have you applied previously for any of the Armed Services and
if so, with what result :————.
14. Occupation since leaving school :————.
15. If employed in Government Department or Public Sector Board/
Corporation (including the Central Bank, Nationlised Banks,
Commercial Banks, Universities, Joint Stock Companies
controlled by the Government, etc.) reasons for termination :—
———.
16. Names and addresses of persons from whom certficiates of
character have been obtained :
(a) —————.
(b) —————.
17. Any other relevant facts :————.
I declare on my honour that the answers I have given to the
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief correct. I have
read and understood the conditions of service which will apply in
respect of candidates who are selected for Cadetships in the Army
as well as the pay prospects and conditions of service applicable to
Officers as published in the Gazette.
————,
Signature of the applicant.
Date :————.
04–338
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE  DEVELOPMENT
Sri Lanka Survey Department
ANNUAL   EXAMINATION   FOR  ISSUE   OF   SURVEYOR
GENERAL’S   LICENCE IN   SURVEYING   AND
LEVELLING – 2006
THE above annual examination will be held in two parts, written and
practical.
The written examination will begin on 17th June, 2006 and the
practical examination will commence on 15th August, 2006. Only
candidates who have passed the written examination or exempted
from same are allowed to sit for the practical examination.
02. The written examination will be held in Colombo only and the
practical examination will be held at the Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa or in Colombo.
According to the Paragraph 25 (2) (b) (iv) of Survey Act, No. 17
of  04.10.2002 only candidates who may have sat that examination
at least once prior to the commencement of this Act are allowed to
sit for this examination. New candidates are not allowed to sit for
this examination.
Further this examination will not be conducted by the Surveyor
General after year 2007.
03. (a) To enter the examination, applications, should be made on
the prescribed form obtainable from Head Quarters Branch, Surveyor
General’s Office, Colombo 05 or Examination Branch, Institute of
Surveing and Mapping, Diyatalawa and completed applications
should be sent under registered cover addressed to “Superintendent
of Surveys, Examination Branch, Institute of Surveying and Mapping,
Diyatalawa”. The envelope should be labeled as “Annual Examination
for issue of Surveyor General’s Licence” on the top left hand corner
of the envelope to reach on or before 25th May, 2006.
(b) The copies of the following certificates must be attached to
the application:
(i) The Senior School Certificate (English) or General Certificate
of Education (Ordinary Level) with a pass in Mathematics,
English Language, Sinhala / Tamil Language and three other
subjects, the six subjects being passed in not more than two
sittings or any other higher examination;
(ii)Certificate to show that the candidate  has studied Suveying
or Levelling or both Surveying and Levelling at the Sri Lanka
Technical College or under duly Licensed Surveyor, Leveller
or Surveyor and Leveller, for a period of at least one year;
Note.– Originals of certificates are required to be produced later.
04. Candidate must pay the following fees to the Surveyor General
before the date of closing entries, viz. - 25th May, 2006:
Rs. cts.
(i)Written examination :
Admission fee 75 0
For subjects, English, Arithmetic and Algebra, 150 0
Geometry and Trigoonometry
For Surveying 75 0
For Levelling 75 0
(ii)Practical examination :
Admission fee 75 0
For Surveying 525 0
For Levelling 525 0

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
454
Payment can be made by cash to the Surveyor General’s Office,
Colombo 5 or Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa or
by the money orders should be made payable to the “Director,
Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa”.
Attached the original receipt if paid to the Surveyor General’s
Office or to the Institute of Surveying  and Mapping or the original
money order if paid by money order.
(Please do not paste the receipt or money order to application).
Remittance by stamps and cheques will not be accepted.
Note.– Those who are not yet eligible to sit for the practical
examination, may pay the required fees according to the above 4 (ii),
for the practical examination after passing this year’s written
examination and before the date of the practical examination. (see
para. 8).
05. The subjects of the written examination will be as follows :
(i) English – One paper.
An exercise in compostion and quesitions set to test the
candidate’s kowledge and command of English;
(ii) Arithmetic and Algebra – One paper :
Arithmetic.– The principles and processes of arithmetic applied
to whole numbers and vulgar and decimal fractions. The metric
system. Approximations to specified degrees of accuracy.
contracted methods of multiplications and division of decimals,
ratio and proportion, percentage, averages, practical
applications of Arithmetic;
Algebra.– Symbolical expression of general results in
Arithmetic, Algebra laws and their application ; factors of
simple, binomial or quadratic expression ; equations of the
first or second degree and problems. Leading thereto ; square
root. Graphs of simple rational integral albebraic functions.
Arithmetical and harmonical progression. Geometrical
progression. theory of indices, logarithms and the use of
logarithmic tables. Binomial theorem for a positive integral
index;
(iii) Geometry and Trigonometry – One paper
Geometry.– The subjects of Euclid I – IV , with simple
deductions, including easy loci and the areas of triangles and
parallelograms, of which the bases and altitudes are given
commensurable length, (All proofs of geometrical theorems
must be geometrical, Eucilid’s proofs will not be insisted upon.)
Similar figures. Mensuration of the circle. Mensuration of the
simple solid bodies namely the cube, the rectangular block,
the tetrahedron, the sphere, the cylinder, the wedger, pyramid
and the cone.
Trigonometry.– Upto and including the solution of triangles
together with the practical solution of triangles and
applications and numerical  examples involving the use of the
logarithmic and other tables.
(iv) Surveying – One Paper :
Chain Surveying, the transit and cradle theodolite, their use
and therir adjustments. theodolites and compass traverses
including the use of plane rectangular co-ordinates, curve
ranging, substance methods and tacheometry. Plane table
surveying. Plane triangulation and determination of azimuth
by astronomical observations;
(v) Levelling.– One Paper :
The Dumpy, Y and Cooke’s reversible level, their use and
their adjustments. The practice and theory of levelling.
Computation of earthwork, Road and railway surveys, and
setting out surveys for water supply works. Contours and
the calculation of contents therefrom;
Question papers on subjects (ii) – (v) above will be set in Sinhala,
Tamil and English media. Candidates may answer them in any one
medium.
06. The percentage of marks required for a pass in the written
examination will be in quesiton papers (i), (ii) and (iii) 40 per cent in
each question paper and 50 per cent in aggregate ; in question papers
(iv) and (v) 60 per cent.
07. Candidates in surveying only will be required to pass in
question papers (i) – (iv) inclusive ; and candidates in Levelling only
in question papers (i) - (iii) inclusive and question paper (v). Candidates
in both surveying and Levelling will be required to pass in question
papers (i) – (v) inclusive.
08. Candidates who pass the written examination will be duly
notified of the date, time and place of the practical examination
which will be set out on the syllabuses in Surveying and Levelling of
the written examination. To pass the practical examination the
candidates must carry out and complete the practical tasks assigned
to them to the full satisfaction of the Examiners.
09. Candidates should adhere to the dates fixed for their practical
examination, as no alternative dates will be fixed under any
circumstances. Candidates will work in the field between hours fixed
by examiner, and must produce instruments in good order. Defects in
instruments will not be accepted as an excuse for bad work.
Candidates found to be in communication with any one during
examination hours will be disqualified.
10. All candidates must provide their own instruments, plummets,
poles, pickets, drawing boards, drawing materials, stationery,
labourers and no assistance in providing requirements will be given
in any way either at the written examination or the practical
examination.
11. No application will be accepted after 25th May, 2006.
12. Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the
satisfaction of the Supervisor by the production of any one of
following documents : –
(a) An identity card issued by the Registrar of Persons ;

<!-- page 9 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
455
(b) A valid passport ;
(c) Any certificate, licence or other ducument embodying a
photograph of the holder and issued within three years of the
date of the examination on the authority of a Government
Department.
13. No Candidates shall be examined unless he/she furnishes
proof of his/her identity as required.
14. Fees once deposited will neither be refunded nor allowed to
be utilised for subsequent examination, under any circumstances.
15. All communications should be addressed to Superintendent
of Surveyes, Examinations Branch, Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa and not  to me personally.
B. J. P. M
ENDIS ,
Surveyor General.
Surveyor General’s Office,
P.O. Box 506, Kirula Road,
Colombo 05,
02nd March, 2006.
04-241
MINISTRY  OF  AGRICULTURE  DEVELOPMENT  SRI
LANKA  SURVEY  DEPARTMENT
Examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s
Certificate as Authorized Draughtsmen — 2006
THE examination for the issue of Surveyor General’s certificate to
practice as an Authorized Draughtsman will be held in Colombo.
The examination will be in two parts :
Part I - Preparation of Co-ordinate Sheet
Part II - Plan work.
2. Part I of the examination will be held on 08th July, 2006 and
Part II on 09th and 10th September, 2006. Candidates who fail Part
I will not be allowed to sit for Part II. Candidates should pass both
Part I and Part II at the same examination to qualify for the award of
the Surveyor General’s Certificate as Authorized Draughtsmen.
3. Candidates are required to satisfy me that :-
(a) They can prepare a co-ordinate sheet from field notes and
co-ordinate a survey traverse ;
(b) They can plot a plan accurately from field notes, both by
protractor and from co-ordinates and compute extents
correctly.
4. Application for the examination must be prepared as per
specimen below and sent under registered post to “Superintendent
of Surveys (Examination), Institute of Surveying and Mapping,
Diyatalawa” accompanied by a fee of Rs. 300. Payment by cash
may be made to the Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa
or by Money orders should be made payable to the “Director,
Institute of Surveying and Mapping, Diyatalawa” and post office
Diyatalawa. Attach the original receipt or the original money order.
(Please do not paste the receipt or money order to the application).
Remittance by stamps and cheques will not be accepted. The envelops
should be labeled as “Examination for the Issue of Surveyor General’s
Certificate as Authorized Draughtsmen - 2006" on the top left hand
corner.
5. Examination fee will not be refunded under any circumstances.
6. Applicaton closing on 05th June, 2006. Applications will not
be accepted after that.
7. Drawing papers and co-ordinate sheets will be supplied at the
examination hall. However, candidates should bring their own drawing
instruments, mathematical tables for computation of coordinates
and all other material they require. Use of non-programmable
scientific calculators will be allowed with the permission of the
Supervisor at the examination hall.
8. (i) Every candidate should prove his/her identity to the
satisfactions of the Supervisor by the production of any one of the
following documents :-
(a) An Identity Card issued by the Commission of registration
of persons ;
(b) A valid Passport ;
(c) Any certificate, licence or other document which embodies
a photograph of the holder and issued within three years
of the date of examination on the authority of a Government
Department.
(ii) No candidate for the examination shall be entitled to be examined
unless he / she furnished proof of his / her identity required by
paragraph 8 (i).
9. This examination will be held under the metric system.
B. J. P. M
ENDIS ,
Surveyor General.
01st March, 2006,
Surveyor General’s Office,
P.O. Box 506,
Colombo 05.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.04.21
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 21.04.2006
456
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
SRI  LANKA   SURVEY   DEPARTMENT
EXAMINA TION  FOR  THE  ISSUE  OF  SURVEYOR  GENERAL ’S CERTIFICA TE AS
AUTHORIZED  DRAUGHTSMEN  - 2006
Index No.        
(For office use)
(a)  (i) Name with initials : Mr./Mrs/Miss :————,
(ii) Names denoted by initials :————,
(b) Sex :————,
(c) Designation :————,
(d) Official address :————,
(e) Permanent address :————,
(f) Date of birth :————,
(g) Educational qualifications :————,
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
(h) Medium through which the candidate proposed to sit this
examination :
Sinhala / Tamil / English
(i) Fees Paid :
Rs. :————,
(j) Money Order / Receipt No. :————,
Office of Issue :————,
Date :————,
(Attach the original receipt if paid to Institute of Surveying and
Mapping, Diyatalawa or the original money order if paid by money
order)
I do hereby certify that above details are true and correct.
————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————,
04-242