

<!-- page 1 -->

10 Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
KESBEWA  DEVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 10 OF 1999.
[Certified on 9th  April, 1999]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 09, 1999
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTNG, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICA TIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01
Price: Rs.6.75 Postage: Rs.3.50
(Internet Version)


<!-- page 2 -->

1Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
[Certified on 09 th April , 1999]
¦L.D. - O . 30/94.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORA TE  THE  KESBEW A  DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Association called and known as the
“Kesbewa Development Foundation” has
 heretofore been established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of
effectually carrying out and transacting all its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Association
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has
heretofore successfully carried out and transacted the sev-
eral objects and matters for which it was established’ and has
applied to be incorporated and it will be for the public advan-
tage to grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-
1. This act may be cited as the Kesbewa Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 10 of 1999.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Kesbewa Development Foundation (hereinafter referred to as
“the Foundation”) or shall hereinafter be admitted members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corpo-
rate (hereinafter referred to as “ the Corporation”) with per-
petual succession under the name and style of the “Kesbewa
Development Foundation” and by that name may sue and be
sued, in all courts, with full power and authority to have, and
use, a common seal and alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be -
(a) to promote and engage in the implementation of
community welfare, cultural and social development
projects in Sri Lanka:
Preamble
Short title.
Incorporation
of the Kesbewa
Development
Foundation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
(b) to undertake, the execution of road development
and housing schemes, the construction and
improvement of hospitals, educational centres,
schools, community  Centres and such other works
and activieies as may contribute to the
development of Sri Lanka;
(c) to afford children in indigent circumstances and
opportunity to prepare for, to enter upon, or to be
engaged in a trade, occupation or services and to
provide them with outfits, instruction fees or other
amenities;
(d) to provide bursaries, scholarships, prizes,
donations, financial aid and assistance in other
forms for the advancement, disemination and
propagation of eduction and knowledge, and for
the establishment of schools, libraries and cultural
centres;
(e) to engage in any industry or trade or in any export
or import business and to aid and assist persons to
commence and operate agricultural, industrial and
commercial ventures and particularly such
industries as fisheries, the export of fibre, white
fibre and fibre products and to undertake training
programmes, and extension services and to organise
propaganda activities, relating to the transfer of
technology;
(f)to collaborate or participate with any other
institution or organisation, whether foreign or
local, having objects similar to those of the
Corporation;
(g) to sponsor  and conduct conferences, seminars,
workshops, group studies and lectures in Sri Lanka
and elsewhere in furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation;
(h) to print, publish and distribute books, journals,
leaflets, newspapers and magazines which the
Corporation may consider desirable for the
promotion and advancement of its objects; and

<!-- page 4 -->

3Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
(i) to do such other acts and things as may be
necessary, incidental or conducive to the
accomplishment of all or any of the objects of the
Corporation.
    4.(1) The management, control and administration of the
Corporation shall, subject to the rules of the Corporation,
vest in a governing Council (hereinafter referred to as “the
Council”) consisting of such number of governors elected
from amoung the members in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation.
(2) The first Council of the Corporation shall be the
governing council of the Foundation holding office on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, and
consisting of the members whose names are specified in the
Schedule hereto.
(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
subsection  (1), Mr. Gemini Lokuge who shall be the Chairman
of corporation for life, unless he earlier resigns from the said
office.
5. The Council shall cause to be kept a register of
members in which every person who on the day preceding the
date of commencement of this Act is a member of the
Foundation and every person there after duly admitted a
member of the Corporation shall have his name inscribed.
6. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power -
(a) to purchase, acquire, rent, construct and otherwise
obtain lands or buildings which may be required
for the purposes of the Corporation;
(b) to borrow or raise money for the purposes of the
Corporation;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse,
negotiate, buy, sell and issue bills of exchange,
cheques, promissory notes and other negotiable
instruments and to open, operate, maintain and
close bank accounts;
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Power of the
Corporation to
acquire property,
invest funds and
raise loans &c.
Register of
members.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Council may think fit;
(e) to solicit and receive subscriptions, grants,
donations, and gifts of all kinds;
(f)to enter into agreements or contracts with any
person, company or body of persons;
(g) to undertake, accept, execute, perform and
administer any lawful trusts and conditions
affecting any real or personal property;
(h) to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the
services of officers and servants of the
Corporation, and to pay them such salaries,
allwances and gratuities as may be determined by
the Corporation;
(i) to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad for the
purpose of the Corporation; and
(j)to do all other things necessary or expedient for
the proper and effective carrying out of the objects
of the Corporation.
    7.(1) It shall be lawful for  the Corporation, from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less then
two- thirds of the members present and voting, to make rules
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, and any
other written law for all or any of the following matters:-
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by each
class of Member their admission, withdrawal
expulsion or resignation;
(b) election of the Council, or vacation of, or emoval
from office as office- bearers and powers, duties
and conduct of the Council;
(c) appointment, powers, duties, functions and
conduct of the various  officers, agents and
servants of the Corporation;
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
(d) the procedure to be observed at and the
summoning and holding of meetings of the
Council , the Corporation or any sub- committee
thereof, filling of vacanies notices and agenda of
such meetings, the quorum therefor and the
conduct of business thereat;
(e) the qualifacations and disqualifications for
membership in the Council and the Corporation;
(f)the administration and management of the
property of the Corporation; and
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall
in so far as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or other written law be deemed
to be the rules of the Corporation and may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in
like manner as a rule made under subsection (1) of this
section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules of the Corporation.
    8.(1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gift, bequest, donation,
subscription, contribution, fees or grants for and on account
of the Corporation shall be depositied to the credit of the
corporation in one or more banks as the Council shall
determine
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of
money to defray any expenditure incurred by the Corporation
in the exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act.
    9.(1) The Council shall cause proper accounts to be kept
of all the moneys received and expended by the Corporation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Accounts.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all debts
due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
11. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, upon
or by virtue of any instrument of purchase, grant, gift or lease
or upon of by virtue of any testamentary disposition or
otherwise and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
rules for the time being of the Corporation, or otherwise for
the purposes of and upon the trusts in and subject to the
conditions in the relative instrument of disposition with full
power (subject always to the provisions of any written law
relating to trusts and of the relative instrument or disposition)
to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of,
incumber or charge the same.
12. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of a
member of  the council and the secretary or such other
person duly authorised by the Council who shall sign their
names on the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation, or
for any other purpose, liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of such membership fees as may be due
from him to the Corporation.
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
 remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
Debts due by and
payable to the
Foundation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Seal of the
Corporation and
how it affixed.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which is or are
by the rules prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its or their members.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the  rights of the Republic, or any body politic or
corporate, or of any other persons except such as are
mentioned in this Act, and those claiming by, from, or under,
them.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
S
CHEDULE                                          [Section 4 (2)]
CHAIRMAN AND DIRECTOR - GENERAL
Mr. Gamini Lokuge
VICE CHAIRMEN
Mr. Sirinal de Mel
Mr. M. Samson Silva
Mr. Harry Makawita
Mr. L.A. Wanigasooriya
Mr. Sirinimal Kathriarachchi
SECRETARY
Mr. Chandra Jayasinghe
ASSISTANT SECRETARIES
Mr. D. William Attigalle
Mr. Mahinda Kumara Wijeratne
TREASURER
Mr. Lalith Wickramasinghe
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
COMMITTEE MEMBERS
Mr. Wimal Wickramaratne
Mr. Sisira Jayawardena
Mr. Alfred Samarakoon
Mr. Wimalasena Jayaweera
Mr. B.L.W. Kumarage
Mr.Anada Sarathkumara Jayasinghe
Mr.Nandasena Amarasinghe
Mr. Premawardena Abeyratne
Mr. Ashoka Paranavithana
Mr.Ranasinghe Caldera
Mr.T.A.D Ariyadasa
Mr.Bernard Ramyakumara De Costa
Mr.K.K. Somathilake
Mr.S.Werasinghe
Mr.Lloyd Perera
Mr.A.A.D. Ubesiri
Mr. D. Wijetunga
Mr.N.H. Perera
Mr. Kapila Hettige
Mr. Kalki Pathiraja
Mr. Daniel Nanayakkara

<!-- page 10 -->

9Kesbewa Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No.10 of 1999
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180
(Foreign). Payable to the Superintendent. Government Publications Bureau, No. 32,
Transworks House, Lotues Road, Colombo 01 before 15 th December each year in respect of
the year following.