

<!-- page 1 -->

235
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.04'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 30.04.2021
wxl 2"226- 2021 wfm%a,a ui 30 jeks isl=rdod - 2021.04'30
No. 2,226– FriDAY , 30  April 2021
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART II  — LeGAL
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  ReGARDInG  AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekLy  “GAzeTTe”
AtteNtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st May 2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th  May  2021.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January 2021
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
235-B82226 - 353 (04/2021)
Page Page
laws ... —
Supreme Court Notices ... —
Court of Appeal Notices ... —
District and Magistrates’ Courts Notices ... —
Notices in Insolvency Cases ... —
Appointments of Fiscals’ Marshals ... —
Notices of Fiscal’s Sales ... —
Notices in Testamentary Actions ... —
Council of Legal Education Notices ... —
List of Notaries .... —
Miscellaneous Notices .... 236
Note.–  Public Health Emergency Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka of April 09, 2021


<!-- page 2 -->

236
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.04'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 30.04.2021
miscellaneous notices
notice of Winding up
In the high court (civil) of the Western Province (holden in colombo) exercising commercial 
Jurisdiction
IN the matter of MAS Capital (Pvt) Ltd,
10th Floor, Aitken Spence Tower,
No.315, Vauxhall Street,
Colombo 02.
and
In the matter of an application for Winding up by Court under Part 
XII of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 read with Winding up 
Rules 1939.
EZY Distribution (Pvt) Ltd,
No.17, Samagi Mawatha, Borupana Road,
Ratmalana.
..................................Petitioner.
Notice is hereby  given that a Petition for the winding up of the above- named Company by the High Court (Civil) of the 
Western Province (Holden in Colombo) exercising Commercial Jurisdiction was, on the 4th day of March 2021, presented to 
the said Court by Ezy Distribution (Pvt) Ltd of No. 17, Samagi Mawatha, Borupana Road, Ratmalana and that the said Petition 
is directed to be heard before the Court on the 25th day of May 2021; and any creditor or contributory of the said company 
desrious to support or oppose the making of an order on the said Petition may appear at the time of hearing in person or by 
his Attorney-at-Law for that purpose, and a copy of the petition will be furnished to any creditor or contributory of the said 
company requiring the same by the undersigned on payment of the prescribed charge for the same.
Signed: Tharaka Sachindra Jayathilake,
 No. 80/4, Sigera Road, Madiwela,
 Kotte.
Note :- Any person who intends to appear on the hearing of the said petition must serve on  or send by post to the above 
named Tharaka Sachindra  Jayathilake notice is writing of his intention so to do. The notice must state the name and address 
of the person, or if a firm, the name and address of the firm and must be signed by the person or firm, or his or their Atttorny-
at-Law (if any) and must be served. or if posted, must be sent by post in sufficient time to rech the above named no later than 
06 O'clock in the afternoon of the 24th day of May 2021.
 Tharaka Sachindra JayaThilake,
 No. 80/4, Sigera Road, Madiwela,
 Kotte.
04-792
Case No : HC (Civil)/21/2021/CO.
Nature  : Company (Winding up)

<!-- page 3 -->

237
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.04'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 30.04.2021
PubLIc (PRoPeRTy) AucTIon SALe
In the commercial high courts
Plaintiff       Defendants
Hatton National Bank PLC,    1. Mahaambalangoda Pathiyanduwage Sunil
(Former known as M/s Hatton    2. Podagodage Dona Shriyani
National Bank Limited) and having     No. 49/D, Pitawala Road, Sawusiri Uyana,
its Registered office at No. 479 (former No. 48)   Kumbura, Gonapola,
T. B. Jaya Mawatha, Colombo 10 and having Branch office, New Address,
At Horana and having its registered office   No. 34, Suderis Silva Mawatha, Horana,
At Horana.      and 
       No. 34/A, Suderis Silva Mawatha, Horana.
Case No. :CHC 0044/2012/MR
IT is hereby given notice that, according to the decree admitted on this 18th day of February, 2016 Defendant above named 
to the Plaintiff, It is hereby ordered and decreed that; the Defendants above named should pay sum of Rs. 4,561,041.93 above 
mentioned together with annual interest at the annual rate of 24% based on the said sum from the date of 23rd September, 
2011 until the entire/total sum is paid in full to the Plaintiff above named together with Value Added Tax (V AT) based on 
the aforesaid Mortgage Bonds marked as C, Cl and C2, against the all estates, interests, titles, rights, assignee relations, 
ownerships and claims for the Defendants above named on behalf of the against the lands and buildings/premises more 
fully described in the First Schedule hereto together with all rights, interests, privileges, servitudes and affiliates of the said 
properties or in connected to said properties or each and every part of said properties hereof. This honors court is hereby 
ordered and decreed that; the Defendants above named should pay the sum of Rs. 4,561,041.93 within two months’ period 
from the date of Decree Statement together with annual interest at the rate of 24% based on the said sum together with other 
charges from 23rd day of 2011 to the Plaintiff above named, this honors court hereby ordered and decreed that, in the event of                 
Defendants above named default (evade) to settle the said sum of monies, the lands and buildings more fully described in 
the First Schedule hereto will be sale at the public auction subject to the Right of Way more fully described in the Second -
Schedule hereto by an authorized auctioneer ordered and appointed by this honors courts in accordance with the sales con-
ditions ordered by this honors courts. This honors courts hereby ordered and authorized to the said Fiscal/Auctioneer as 
follows;
This honors courts hereby ordered and decreed that, vested authority to; produced the said land and premises for sale at the 
appraised value at first; and if there are no bidders to purchase the said property at the said appraised value, produced the 
said land and premises for sale for the sum of monies to be recovered in terms of the decree statement at the time of com-
mission being issued, and even if there are no bidders to purchase at the said sale, authority to sale to the highest bidder/
bidders hereof. It is hereby ordered and decreed that, in the event of there is order made under and interms of Section 52(1) 
of the Mortgage Act, to be sale to said land and premises at the appraised value at first; and if the highest bid at the first sale 
of mortgaged land is less than the amount of the appraised value of the land as fixed under and in terms of Section 51(3) of 
the Act, the land shall not be sold at first and in such occasion that the second sale of the land shall be held and even if there 
are no buyers to purchase the said mortgaged land at the appraised value at the said second sale, produced the said land and 
premises for sale for the sum of monies to be recovered in terms of the decree statement at the time of commission being 
issued, and even if there are no bidders in such sale, afterwards produced the mortgaged land to be sold to the next highest 
bidder or bidders in accordance with the Section 50(4) of the Mortgaged Act. It is hereby ordered and decreed that, grant 
permission to made bids to purchase the said lands and buildings by the Plaintiff or another person on behalf of the Plaintiff; 
and in the event of Plaintiff to be the Purchaser, Plaintiff shall entitle to credit advantage notes indicating the amounts of 
Plaintiff’s claims and charges hereof. It is hereby ordered and decreed that, Fiscal/ Auctioneer being authorized to execute 
and sign Transfer or Transfers in due formats as set out by law unto the name of Purchaser/ Purchasers; after the buyer or 
buyers of the said sale exercised/ acted in accordance with the sales conditions thereof; if the purchaser is the Plaintiff; after 
submitting a court order which approved the credit advantage note issued in the favour of the Plaintiff and in the event of 
Purchaser/Purchasers to be third party or parties; after the said parties produced a court order or court orders indicating that, 
they have duly deposited the purchase price in your honour courts hereof. It is hereby ordered and decreed that, Fiscal to 
Vs

<!-- page 4 -->

238
 II fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021.04'30
Part II – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka - 30.04.2021
be authorized to duly handover the clear and vacant possession of the said mortgaged property which sold in the aforesaid 
manner, unto the purchaser or purchasers who purchased the said mortgaged land. It is hereby ordered and decreed that, 
proceeds (monies) received from the said sale to be used to settle the claims, interests and charges to be paid and settle to the 
Plaintiff hereof. It is hereby ordered and decreed not to be continued to execute said authority unless otherwise order made 
by your honors court, upon the approval of the conditions of sale by this court, which was set out with comply to the said 
terms, and based on the execution powers issued by this court, the following property, which is more fully described in the 
under noted schedule will be sold at the public Auction at the spot.
Will be sold the land called ‘kahatagahawatta alias kahatagahakanaththa’ which is containing in extent 13.93 
Perches together with buildings and everything else thereon by Public Auction at the spot, on this 22nd day of may, 
2021 at 10.00 a.m.
Entrance (Accessibility): - 
You will be reached to the Kumbuka Junction towards the Horana- Pokunuwita to Colombo Road and after you travel            
approximately 200 meters in the Galanigama Road in the left side and travel approximately another 200 meters in the Piti-
wala Road in the Right Side and you will be reached to the said property in the right side of the road.
Payment Method/ Plan: - 
As soon as the Public Auction coming to an end, purchaser should be paid the following charges to the Auctioneer in cash 
(cheques will not be accepted).
 1. 25% of the Purchase Price (25 per cent)
 2. Professional Charges of the Auctioneer 2.5% (2.5 per cent) from the purchase price.
 3. All Advertising expenses/ charges
 4. Stamp Duty
 5. Announcing and Clerk Charges
 6. Provincial Council Charges 1% (one per cent)
 7. Notary Charges
 8. Any other taxes and charges imposed by the Local Authorities
 9. Court charges, which comply with Rs. 150/- for the first Rs. 7,500/- and Rs. 5/- for the additional Rs. 
1,000/- (post charges), and balance 75% (75 per cent) should be deposited in the account of Partition Case, 
bearing no. CHC 0044/2012/MR in the Commercial High Court, within the first 30 days, and if the parties 
fail to do so, initial deposit money should not be refunded and court will again conduct a public auction 
regarding the said property.
  by order of the Court.
Visit for inquiries and search related deeds and other instruments (documents)
 
aJiTh daSanayake,
 Court Commissioner/Justice of Peace (Whole Island),
 Licensed Auctioneer and Valuer,
Email :- ajith-dasanayake@yahoo.com
Tel : Mob : 072-1802348 B. B. A. (United Kingdom), A.J.C. M. (Sri Lanka)
04-872
PrinTed   aT   The   deParTMenT   OF   GOVernMenT   PrinTinG,   Sri lanka.