

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1101
1101
wxl 1"866 - 2014 cqks 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'06'06
No. 1,866 – FRIDAY , JUNE 06, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1104
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1112
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th June, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th June,
2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Parts I:III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,865 of 30.05.2014 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1102
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1103
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1104
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
BADULLA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 07th Jul y, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
20th May, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Badulla Haliela Post of Birth and Death Registrar District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Maligatenna Haliela Division General, District Secretariat, Badulla.
06–105
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
NUWARA ELIYA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1105
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 30th Jun e, 2014.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
19th May, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Nuwara Eliya Ambagamuwa Post of Registrar of Muslim Marriages District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Bagawanthalawa Area, General,  District Secretariat,
Ambagamuwa Korale Division Nuwara Eliya.
06–47
––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in Tamil Medium
JAFFNA   DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and Other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 07th Jul y, 2014.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla.
13th May, 2014.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1106
SCHEDULE
District Divisional Secretary ’s Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Jaffna Kayts Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Eluvaitivu Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Kayts Divisional Secretary’s Jaffna.
Division
Jaffna V elanai Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Allaipiddy Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Velanai Divisional Jaffna.
Secretary’s Division
Jaffna V elanai Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Pungudutivu Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Velanai Divisional Jaffna.
Secretary’s Division
Jaffna Karainagar Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Karainagar Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Karainagar Divisional Jaffna.
Secretary’s Division
Jaffna Karainagar Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages The District Secretary/The Additional
(General) of Karainagar Divisional Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Secretary’s Division Jaffna.
Jaffna Jaffna Post of Additional Registrar of Marriages The District Secretary/The Additional
(General) of Jaffna Divisional Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Secretary’s Division Jaffna.
Jaffna Chankanai Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Vaddukkoddai Division and Registrar General, District Secretariat,
Marriages (General) of Chankanai Jaffna.
Divisional Secretary’s Division
Jaffna Kopay Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Puttur Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Kopay Divisional Jaffna.
Secretary’s Division
Jaffna Point Pedro Post of Registrar of Births and Deaths The District Secretary/The Additional
of Kaddaively Division and Marriages Registrar General, District Secretariat,
(General) of Point Pedro Divisional Jaffna.
Secretary’s Division
06–27
–––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  SOCIAL  SERVICES
National Institute of Social Development
01. Post.– Senior Lecturer - No. of Posts 03.
01. Age limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not
more than 45 years of age (Maximum age limit shall not be applicable
to the candidates serving in government Provincial Public Service or
Statutory Boards of the government).
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Bachelor’s Degree in Social Sciences from a University
recognized by the University Grant Commission with a
Doctoral Degree (PHD) in social work.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1107
(b) Experience not less than 10 years in Social work and
Teaching at a Government Education Institute or a
recognized Institution by the Government.
03. Salary Scale .– AR-2-2006A - Rs. 34,550 -10x925 -
Rs. 43,880 (Monthly).
02. Post.– Senior Training Officer - No. of Posts 03.
01. Age limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not
more than 45 years of age (Maximum age limit shall not be applicable
to the candidates serving in Government, Provincial Public Service
or Statutory Boards of the government).
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) A Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences with a Doctoral
Degree (PhD) in Social Sciences from a University
recognized by the University Grant Commission ;
and
Experience of not less than 10 years in the Sector of
Social Work Training in a government or a recognized
institution by the government ;
or
(b) Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences with a Post Graduate
Degree in Social Sciences from a University recognized
by the University Grant Commission ;
and
Experience of not less than 15 years in the Sector of
Social Work Training in a government institute or an
institution recognized by the government.
03. Salary Scale. – AR-2-2006A - Rs. 34,550 -10x925 -
Rs. 43,880 (Monthly).
Note.– Obtaining Post Graduate Diploma with a duration
not less than one year in Psychological counseling will be
consdidered as a Special Qualification for the selection.
03. Post.– Senior Research Officer - No. of Posts 03.
01. Age limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not
more than 45 years of age (Maximum age limit shall not be applicable
to the candidates serving in government, Provincial Public Service
or Statutory Boards of the government).
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) A Bachelor's  Degree in Social Sciences with a Doctoral
Degree (PhD) in Social Sciences from a University
recognized by the University Grant Commission ;
and
Experience of not less than 10 years in the Sector of
Social work Research in a government or a recognized
institution by the government ;
or
(a) Bachelor's Degree in Social Sciences with a post graduate
degree in Social Sciences from a University recognized
by the University Grant Commission ;
and
(b) Experience of not less than 15 years in the Sector of
Social Work Research in a government institute or a
recognized institution by the government.
03. Salary Scale .– AR-2-2006A - Rs. 34,550 - 10x925 -
Rs. 43,880 (Monthly).
04. Post.– English Instructor - No. of Post : 01.
01. Age limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not
more than 45 years of age (Maximum age limit shall not be applicable
to the candidates serving in Government, Provincial Public Service
or Statutory Boards of the government).
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) A degree with English as a subject obtained by a
University recognized by the University Grant
Commission ;
or
(b) A degree with English Language/English Literature/
English Language Teaching Methods obtained from a
University recognized by the University Grant
Commission ;
and
(c) Completion of a Diploma related to English Language
Teaching with a duration of not less than one year from
a recognized Higher Educational Institute ;
or
Experience not less than 3 years of English Language
Teaching in a government School or any other
government institute.
03. Salary Scale.– AR-4-2006A- Rs. 18,230 -10x365 - 15x450 -
5x550 - Rs. 31,380 (Monthly).
05. Post.– Translator (Sinhala to English) - No. of Post : 01.
01. Age limit.– Shall be not less than 22 years of age and not
more than 45 years of age (Maximum age limit shall not be applicable
to the candidates serving in Government, Provincial Public Service
or Statutory Boards of the government).
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Degree obtained in Sinhala/English medium from a
university recognized by University Grant Commission
and a Credit pass for Sinhala/English Language and
Literature at G . C. E. A/L and skills in Sinhala/English
Translation ;
and
(b) 02 years experience as a translator at a government
institution or institution recognized by the government.
03. Salary Scale.– MA-4-2006A- Rs. 18,230 -10x365 - 15x450
- 5x550 - Rs. 31,380 (Monthly).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1108
06. Post.– Audio Visual Technician - No. of Post : 01.
01. Age limit.– Shall be less than 22 years of age and not more
than 45 years of age (Maximum age limit shall not be applicable to
the candidates serving in this institute).
02. Educational Qualifications :
(a) Shall have passed G. C. E. (Ordinary Level) with six
(06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala, Mathematics
and two other subjects in one sitting ; and
(b) Shall have passed G. C. E. (Advanced Level) in Science
stream with all subjects (Except General Test) and
have obtained the level required to follow a tertiary
education course.
(b) Technological Skills/Proficiencies.
03. Salary Scale.– MA-2-2006A- Rs. 14,610 -10x145 - 7x170 -
4x290 - 20x345 - Rs. 25,310 (Monthly).
Conditions/Nature of the appointments :
1. The appointment are permanent.
2. The Employees are entitled for the contributions to the
EPF and ETF.
3. All appointments shall subject to a probation period of 03
years.
Note.– The above vacancies exist at the Main Office at
Nawala, Rajagiriya and the selected employees shall
serve only at the main office.
Service Condition.– All appointments made shall be conformed
to the provisions of the National Institute of the Social Development,
Act, No. 41 of 1992 and other government regulations.
Application along with a Bio data should be sent by the registered
post to the following address on or before 04.07.2014. Name of the
post shall be written clearly on the top left hand corner of the
envelope and the applicants employed in the government sector
shall forward their applications through the Head of the Institute.
R
IDDLEY JAYASINGHE,
Director General,
National Institue of Social Development.
National Institute of Social Development,
No. 488A, Nawala Road, Rajagirirya,
21st May, 2014.
06–86
SRI  LANKA  POLICE  DEPARTMENT
Post of Police Constable
APPLICATIONS are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka for the
Post of Police Constable in the Sri Lanka Police Department.
2. Application forms duly perfected in accordance with the
specimen form given below should be sent to Director/Recruitment,
Recruiting Office, No. 375, Sambuddathwa Jayanthi Mawatha,
Colombo 06. The application should be sent by registered post to
the above-mentioned address to reach on or before 15.08.2014 and
the post applied for should be marked on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Delayed applications will
be rejected and no applications will be issued by Sri Lanka Police
Department.
3. Salary Scale :
 Rs. 171,360 - 7 x 1,740 - 10 x 2,160 - 17x2,880 - Rs. 254,100.
Further, these officers are entitled to cost of living allowance
paid to other public officers and the allowance granted in accordance
with the Public Administration Circular No. 31/11 dated 12.12.2011.
In addition to the above salary scale, they will be paid following
monthly allowances :
Rs. cts.
(a) Arduous duty allowances 2,000 0
(b) Combined allowances :
(1) For performing of duties in 10,500 0
North and East areas
(2) For performance of duties in other areas 8,400 0
(c) Free transport facilities.
(d) Free medical facilities to officers  (Financial assistance
can be obtained for medical treatment even in a foreign
country.).
(e) All uniforms will be provided free of charge.
(f) Facilities to imporve their skills and talents in sports.
(g) Travelling expenses for duty and money will be granted
as rewards for outstanding and arduous duties.
04. Basic Qualifications :
(a) Age Limits.– The age should be 19 and 32 years as at
closing date as per the Gazette Notification.
(b) Educational qualifications :
Should have passed in 06 subjects in the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination. Not more than 2 sittings.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1109
Note 01.– According to the classification of subjects by the
Department of Examinations, in determining the
number of subjects passed at G . C. E. (O/L) both
passes in science subjects number 41 and 44 will
be treated as one subject and both passes in
Mathematics number 42 and 45 will be treated as
one subject.
Note 02.– Failure in the Technical subjects at written test
of G . C. E. (O/L) Examination will be considered
as failure in the same subject although a pass has
been obtained for the same subject in the Practical
Test.
Note 03.– Since optional subjects of Tamil, English and
Sinhala have not been included in the stream of
G . C. E. (O/L) syllabus, passes in any of these
subjects will not be computed as a pass in the
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination.
(c) Physical Requirements :
* Height 05 feet 03 inches (minimum).
* Chest 30 inches (minimum/in exhalation).
Note.– Applicants who are slightly short of the physical
requirements, but fulfill the other stipulated
qualifications will be eligible at the discretion of
Inspector General of Police provided they have
skills in sports or have achieved best performance
in sports at national level or they have earned
reputation for Sri Lanka by participating in an
international competition.
(d) Professional qualifications :
(i) Certificate of competence in driving light or heavy
vehicles.
(ii) At least, one year experience in diriving motor
vehicles after obtaining the above certificate.
Note.– Priority will be given for knowledge of motor
mechanism, experience in repairs of vehicles and
long term experience in driving vehicles.
* If any applicant has deformity or any other physical
disability which impedes movement of physical limb
required for competence in driving will be
disqualified, although he has obtained a medical
certificate to the effect that he is fit for service.
* The applicants who have basic qualifications will
be tested for their ability for driving and maintaining
vehicles. Their knowledge of road rules, traffic
signals and basic knowledge of mechanical theories
of the vehicle in which the applicant has achieved
competence in driving will also be tested.
(e) Visual Requirement .– Vision should not be less than
6/12 with each eye, if the vision is of 6/6 with one eye
and 6/18 with the other eye it will be accepted. Colour
vision should be normal. Applicants wearing spectacles
or contact lenses will not be eligible for being selected for
the service.
(f) Other Qualifications .– Applicants may be married or
unmarried.
5. Method of Recruitment. – Selected applicants will have to
pass in the Basic Qualification Test conducted by the Department
of Police. Only those who have passed this test can participate in
the Physical fitness tests or Endurance test and should pass that
test.
1,000 meters  – 03 minutes   44 seconds
Only those who are successful in the test will be summoned
for final interview. Only those who score 40% or more will
be summoned for the professional test.
6. Professional Qualifications :
6.1 Professional Test will be conducted by the Assistant
Director of Police Driving School under the supervision
of the Director, Sri Lanka Police College.
6.2 100 marks have been allocated for the professional test.
The test will be conducted as follows :
(a) Competence in driving vehicles - 50 marks
(b) Road rules manual - 25 marks
(c) Knowledge on maintenance of vehicles and ability
to attend to minor repairs - 25 marks.
6.3 Professional Test.– Applicants who obtain a minimum of
25 out of the maximum marks of 50 allocated to the
eligibility of driving vehicle, a minimum of 12.5 out of the
maximum marks of 25 allocated to the knowledge on the
road rules manual, a minimum of 12.5 out of the maximum
marks of 25 allocated to the maintenance and attending to
minor repairs, thus obtaining a total of 50 out of total
marks of 100 allocated will be considered as having passed
the professional test. Only the candidates who pass the
professional test will be invited for the medical test.
Note.– Police Constable Drivers who are recruited should
obtain certificates to drive Heavy vheicles and pass
the Heavy Vehicle Driving Test conducted by the
Police College before the end of probation period.
07. Medical Test.– Applicant must be passed in the medical test
before obtain his appointment. Medical test is an only one part of
the course of action, with regard to the recruitment process. Selection
will be made among the applicants who have passed in the medical
test, considering the number of existing vacancies and the position
in the list pertaining to the merit and skill. Those who have failed in
the medicla test will be rejected.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1110
08. Background Inquiries  :
(a) Inquiries will be made on the conduct of the applicant,
close relations and friends. Applicants with bad conduct
will not be recruited ;
(b) Providing false information will make the applicant
ineligible. If the false information is elicited after the
appointment, the applicants will be dismissed from the
service.
09. Implementation of Official Language Policy :
* As per the Public Administration Circular No. 07/2007
dated 28.04.2007 issued by the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs, all officers recruited
to the Public/Provincial Public Service with effect from
01.07.2007 should acquire proficiency in the other official
language within a period of 05 years in addition to the
official language through which they enter the service.
* Officers recruited below the rank of an Assistant
Superintendent of Police from 01.07.2007 should pass
the language test of secondary level conducted by the
Official Language Department.
* The salary increments of the officers who do not acquire
the specified proficiency in the second official language
within a period of 05 years from the date of their
appointments will be deferred until they obtain
qualifications.
10. Terms of Engagement. – This post is permanent and
pensionable. You are liable to contribute to the Widows'/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
11. Conditions of Service :
(a) This appointment is subject to a three years recruit period ;
(b) The selected applicants will be required to comply with
any regulation already made or made hereinafter to give
effect to the official language policy ;
(c) They will be subjected to the relevant provisions of the
Establishment Code V olume I and II, Financial Regulations,
Departmental Orders, Police Disciplinary Code and any
other orders that may be issued by the Inspector General
of Police or by the Government from time to time ;
(d) Prior to their confirmation, every officer will be required
to pass the prescribed Departmental Examinations. Those
who fail to pass the prescribed examinations or are found
to be unfit for Police duties will be liable for removal
from the Police Services ;
(e) Permission will not be granted to marry for unmarried
prior to being confirmed in the said rank without the
permission of the I. G. Police. However in terms of P. G .
II No. 41 dated 28.02.1973 and I. G's Circular No. 1952/
2006 of 19.10.2006 and circular (amended) dated
09.08.2007, it is possible to marry showing special
reasons and with the permission of I. G. Police ;
(f) Applicants on being appointed and after the training
should serve a recruit period of three years in the Police
Department and if they wish to resign from service before
their recruit period is over, they should sign an agreement
of consent to the effect that they are willing to pay at the
time of tendering their resignation, any amount which
was incurred on the training and uniforms etc., together
with any other prescribed payments. Director of Police
Training College will decide it having calculated dues from
the applicants. The acceptance of resignation should
conform to the Section 4, Chapter V of V olume I of the
Establishments Code, 1985 ;
(g) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables Drivers have
commenced training at the Police Training College, they
should subscribe affirmation/oath to the effect that they
comply with the Police Disciplinary Code in terms of the
I. G. P.’s Circular, No. 1693/2003 ;
(h) Immediately after Recruit Police Constables Drivers have
commencement their training at the Police College, they
should subscribe the Oath of allegiance to the Public
Service, in terms of the I.G.P.'s Circular, No. 1804/2004 ;
(i) Recruit Police Constable Drivers who have been confirmed
in the post will have opportunities for promotions in
terms of the approved scheme of promotions of the Police
Department.
12. (a) Attention is invited to the general conditions applicable
to appointment to the posts in the Public Service
published in the Section (IIA) of the Part I of this Gazette ;
(b) Enlistment will be made in terms of Public Administration
Circular, No. 15/90 dated 10.03.1990.
13. Applicants should annex copies of following documents to
their application (originals must not be forwarded) :
(i) Birth Certificate ;
(ii) Two recent testimonials of character (obtained from non
related persons ;
(iii) Certificates in support of educational qualifications ;
(iv) Certificates in support of any outstanding sports or
other extra curricular activities ;
(v) Certificates regarding experience in services (if available) ;
(vi) A photostat copy of the National Identity Card ;
(vii) A photostat copy of the valid Driving Licence.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1111
14. (a) Applicants who are already in the Public Service must
forwarded their applications through the Heads of their
respective Departments and must be accompanied by a
certificate stating that the officer can be released if
selected.
(b) Applicants must fill the required particulars in their own
hand writing on paper 11" x 8" in size and post them
together with the copies of certificates called for to the
address given in paragraph two (2) and under no
circumstances should applications be handed over
personally to any officer in the Department.
15. Applications which do not conform to the requirements
stipulated in this notification will be rejected and such applicants
will not be notified.
Note.– No travelling or other expenses will be paid to
applicants who are summoned for the test and interview.
N. K. I
LLANGAKOON ,
Inspector General of Police.
Police Headquarters,
Colombo 01.
SRI LANKA POLICE DEPARTMENT
POST OF RECRUIT POLICE CONSTABLE DRIVER
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
01. ( a) Name in full (in block letters) :––––––––––.
(As stated in the applicant's birth certificate)
(b) Name with initials :––––––––––.
(c) Post applied for :––––––––––.
02. National Identity Card No. :––––––––––.
(Copy of the NIC should de attached)
03. Father's name in full :––––––––––.
04. Place of birth of the applicant :––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariate to which the place of birth belongs :
––––––––.
Province :––––––––––.
05. ( a) Present address :––––––––––.
(b) Police Station to which the present address belongs :
––––––––––.
(c) Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(d) Police Station to which the permanent address belongs :
––––––––––.
(e) Grama Niladari's Division to which permanent address
belongs :––––––––––.
Divisional Secretariat :––––––––––.
(f) Telephone No. (Residence) :––––––––––.
Mobile No. :––––––––––.
06. ( a) Nationality :––––––––––.
(b) Whether you are a citizen by birth or registration :––––.
(If by registration attach copies of certificate)
(c) If you are citizen by birth state the place of birth :–
(i) Applicant :––––––––––.
(ii) Applicant's father :––––––––––.
(iii) Applicant's paternal grandfather :––––––––––.
(iv) Applicant's paternal great grandfather :––––––––.
07. Date of Birth :––––––––––. (Copy of the birth certificate should
be attached)
Age : (as at the closing date of application given in the Gazette):
Years :–––––––––, Months :–––––––––, Days :–––––––––.
08. Height : Feet :––––––––––.  Inches :––––––––––.
Chest (inches) :––––––––––.
09. Educational qualifications (State examinations passed and attach
copies of certificates) :––––––––––.
10. ( a) Driving Licence No. :––––––––––.
(b) Date of issued :––––––––––.
(c) Classes competent to drive :––––––––––.
(Attach a photostat copy of the Driving Licence)
11. Additional qualifications (Copies of the certificates should be
attached) :–––––––––.
12. Whether married or single :––––––––––.
13. (i) Present employment :––––––––––.
(ii) Are you a member of a armed forces ? :––––––––––.
14. Do you have any special skills and/or qualifications :––––––.
15. Give names and addresses of two referees to inquire the
applicant :
(i) ––––––––––.
(ii) ––––––––––.
16. ( a) Have you ever applied for a post in the Reserve Police
Service or Regular Police Service  (If so give reference) :
––––––––––.
(b) Have you served in the Regular Police Service or in the
Sri Lanka Reserve Police Service before ? (If so under
what circumstances did you leave the service ? Give
details) :––––––––––.
17. Are you a member of the Sri Lanka Police Reserve ? If so give
date of appointment, Rank and number. Attach a copy of the
appointment letter :––––––––––.
18. ( a) Are you serving in any armed service ? (If so your
application must be submitted through the respective
Service Commander) :––––––––––.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1112
(b) Have you served in any of the Armed service ? (If so
attach copy of your discharge certificate) :––––––––––.
19. ( a) Are you serving as a V olunteer in any of the Armed
Service ? (If so, your application must be submitted
through the respective Service Commander) :––––––––.
(b) Have you served in any of the V olunteer Armed service ?
:–––––––.
(If so attach copy of your discharge certificate)
20. Have you been involved in or concerned in or charged or arrested
even on suspicion and or convicted of any offence ? (If so give
details) :––––––––––.
21. Have any of your relatives been involved or concerned in or
charged or arrested even on suspicion and or convicted of any
offence ? (If so give details) :––––––––––.
I hereby declare that the above particulars are true and correct to
the best of my knowledge and belief. If the particulars furnished are
found to be incorrect or false, I am aware that I am liable for
immediate termination of my service in the Police Department at
any time even though I have been appointed to the post.
–––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
06–187
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.,
MINISTRY  OF  FINANCE  AND  PLANNING
Sri Lanka Customs Department
APPLICATIONS for the Open Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the posts of Assistant Superintendent of Customs
Grade II, Inspector of Customs Grade II and Customs Guard Grade
III - 2014, posts were invited by notice published in Gazette No.
1,862 dated Friday, 09th May, 2014 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka. The following amendments are made :
(i) In the note provided under the paragraph 04 should be
amended as follows :
"Note : This examination will be conducted in all the three
languages Sinhala, Tamil and English. Candidates
should sit this examination in the same medium in
which they passed the qualifying examination referred
to in paragraph 02(iii) of this notification (i. e. Sinhala
or Tamil or English language). However, a candidate
who has passed the qualifying examination in Tamil
or English medium or a candidate whose medium of
study is Tamil or English medium may sit in Sinhala
medium or Tamil medium at the examination if he/she
desires. It is not permitted to change the language
medium applied".
2. Applications for the Open Competitive Examination for
recruitment to the posts of Assistant Superintendent of Customs
Grade II, posts were invited by notice published in Gazette No.
1,862 dated Friday, 09th May, 2014 of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka. The following amendments are made :
(i) The words "The Sri Lanka Customs Department reserves
the right of postponing or cancelling this examination"
should be inserted in place of the words "The Ministry of
Finance and Planning reserves the right of postponing or
cancelling this examination" set out under first paragraph ;
(ii) The words "Director General of Customs, Sri Lanka
Customs Department, "Customs House", No. 40, Main
Street, Colombo 11" should be inserted in place of the
words "Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning, the
Secretariat, Colombo 01" set out in after paragraph 13.
3. "Closing date of applications for the Open Competitive
Examination for recruitment to the posts of Assistant
Superientendent of Customs Grade II, Inspector of Customs Grade
II and Customs Guard Grade III - 2014, is extended to 11.06.2014
and the candidates should be fulfilled all the requirements prior to
04.06.2014".
Director General of Customs.
Sri Lanka Customs Department,
29th May, 2014.
06–151
–––––––––––––––
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  III  OF THE  SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE – 2013(2014)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified citizens of
Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for recruitment to
the posts in Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
1. In this notice “Secretary” shall mean the “Secretary to the
Ministry in-Charge of the subject of Public Administration”
“Service” shall mean the “Sri Lanka Administrative Service” at the
instances not specified in other way.
2. The appointments through this examination shall be made to
Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
Written Examination .– The Examination shall consist of the
following five (05) question papers :–
(01) General Intelligence
(02) Social, Economic, Political background and trends in Sri
Lanka
(03) Global Trends
(04) Aptitude for Management
(05) Creative, analytical and communication skills.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1113
Date of Examination.– This examination will be held in Colombo
in September, 2014. The Secretary reserves the right to postpone
or cancel this examination subject to the instructions given by the
Public Service Commission.
Interview.– A general and structured interview shall be held for
the candidates who sat for all the papers in the written examination
and obtained a higher aggregate of marks as determined by the
Public Service Commission as sufficient. The date of the interview
shall be determined by the Secretary as per the instructions of the
Public Service Commission.
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 172. At the instances
where there are candidates, who have secured equal marks for the
final vacancy or final few vacancies, above the number of vacancies,
the decision of filling such vacancies shall be taken by the Public
Service Commission as per Section 80 of Procedural Rules. The
effective date of the appointment shall be determined on the order
of the Public Services Commission.
4. Conditions of Service :
4.1 A selected candidate shall be appointed to Grade III of
the Service on the general conditions governing
appointments in the Pubilc Service and on the terms
and conditions set out in the Minute of Sri Lanka
Administrative Service. (published in the Gazette
Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka No. 1842/2 of 23.12.2013) and subject to any
amendments made or to be made hereafter to the Minute,
provisions of the Establishments Code and Financial
Regulations and Procedural Rules of Public Service
Commission published in the Gazette Extraordinary
No. 1,589/30 of 20.02.2009.
4.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. Shall contribute
to the Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
4.3 Appointment is subject to an Acting Period of one year.
First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within
03 years from the date of recruitment to Grade III of Sri
Lanka Administrative Service as mentioned in the service
minute.
4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be obtained
within 05 years of joining the service as per Public
Administration Circular 01/2014 and consequent
circulars.
4.5 Public Service Commission reserves the power to cancel
the appointment of any candidate who fails to assume
duties of the appointed post on due date and/or rejects
or avoids serving in an area where he/she is appointed.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– S. L. 1-2006 salary segment of Public
Administration Circular 06/2006 is applied to this service and the
salary scale entitled to the said salary segment is as follows :
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly).
6. Qualifications for Recruitment :–
(a) (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Shall have a excellent moral character,
(iii) Shall be physically and mentally fit to serve in any
part of the Island.
(b) Educational Qualifications.– Shall have possessed a degree
from a university recognized by the University Grant
Commission or an institution recognized by the University
Grants Commission as an institution for awarding degrees.
Note.– Effective date of the degree shall be a date on or
before the application closing date.
(c) Age.– Shall not be less than twenty two (22) years of age
and not have reached 28 years of age on the application
closing date.
(d) Restrictions regarding Qualifications :
(i) No person is allowed to sit the open competitive
examination for more than two (2) sittings. (Number
of sittings at the examinations to recruit Grade III of
Sri Lanka Administrative Service under previous
service minutes will not be considered).
(ii) Requisite qualifications for this examination shall have
been completed in every aspect by on or before the
application closing date.
(iii) No person ordained in any religious sect shall be
permitted to apply or sit for this competitive
examination.
7. Examination Fee. – The fee is Rs. 1,000. It should be paid
before the closing date of applications at any District Secretariat/
Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13
of Commissioner General of Examinations. The receipt obtained
from the District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat should be pasted
in the relevant cage of the application form. This fee is non-
refundable. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with
the candidate.
8. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by
the candidate himself on paper of size 8 1/2" x 12" (A4)
using both sides. It should be specially noted that the
application forms should be so prepared that cages 1.0 to
2.12 appear on the first side, of the paper and cages 3.0
to 6.0 appear on the other side of the paper. Applications
that do not comply with the specimen and that are not
completed in every aspect, shall be rejected without
notice. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
application with candidate.) It is the responsibility of
the candidate to make sure that the application form
perfected by him/her complies with the specimen given
in the examination notice as otherwise the application
may be rejected.
(b) The application should be in the language medium in
which the candidate intends to sit the examination.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1114
(c) The completed application form for the examination
should be sent by registered post to reach the
"Commissioner-General of Examinations Organization and
Foreign Examination Branch, Department of Examinations
- Sri Lanka, P. O. Box, 1503, Colombo" on or before
07.07.2014. The words “Open Competitive Examination
for Recruitment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka
Administrative Service – 2013(2014)” should be clearly
indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application. Any application received after
the closing date will not be accepted. It is essential to
mention the name of examination in English Language as
well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.
(d) Candidate’s signature in the application form should have
been attested by a Principal of a Government School, a
justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-
Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed
Forces, an Officer holding a gazetted post in the Police
Service or an Officer holding a permanent post in Public
Service whose annual initial salary is more than
Rs. 240,360.
(e) Any application, which is not complete in every aspect,
is liable to be rejected. No complaint that an application
has been lost or delayed in post will be considered.
(f) Receipt of applications will not be acknowledged. A notice
will be published in the newspapers by the Department
of Examinations as soon as admission cards are issued to
applicants. If the admission card is not received even
after 2 or 3 days of such an advertisement, steps shall be
taken to notify the Department of Examinations in the
manner specified in the advertisement. When informing,
the name of the examination applied for, full name, address
and the NIC number of the candidate shall be indicated. It
would be advisable for candidates outside Colombo to
fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the
candidate to the Department of Examinations through
the fax number mentioning the notification for sending a
copy of the admission. Further, it would be advisable to
keep a copy of the application, copy of the receipt
relevant to payment of examination fee and the receipt of
registration of the application to prove any information
requested by the Department of Examinations.
9. Admission to the Examination :
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations shall issue
admission cards to all candidates whose applications
are perfected in each and every way have been received.
A candidate who fails to produce his admission card
shall not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) A candidate must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him. Every candidate must get his
signature attested in advance and hand over the
admission card to the supervisor on the first day he
presents himself for the examination. A set of rules to
be observed by all candidates is published at the begining
of gazette . Candidates are subjected to rules and
regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting the examination and they
are liable to be subjected to a punishment imposed by
him/her for breach of these rules.
Note.– The issue of an admission card to a candidate
does not mean that he or she has fulfilled the
requisite qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Identity of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, any of the
following documents shall be accepted :-
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information .– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a
candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are
false, or if he has willfully suppressed any material fact, he shall be
liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
given by the Public Service Commission.
13. Scheme of Examination and Medium of Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English ;
(b) A candidate shall sit the examination in the language in
which he passed the qualifying degree examination or in
an offiicial language ;
(c) A candidate who has passed subjects at the qualifying
degree examination in two or more languages, shall sit the
examination in the language in which he passed the
majority of subjects at such examination or in an official
language ;
(d) A candidate with a special degree who has passed the
principal subject in one language and the subsidiary subject
in another language shall sit the examination in the language
in which he passed the principal subject or in an official
language.
Note :
(i) The term “qualifying degree” in ( b) and (c) above
refers to the degree qualifications referred to in
Paragraph 6 (b).
(ii) A candidate must sit all the papers of the
examination in one and the same language.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1115
(iii) A candidate will not be permitted to change the
language medium of the examination, indicated in
the application.
14. Method of Recruitment :
14.1 Written examination :
A written examination of five (05) question papers
including the following subjects shall be held. Subjects
and the minimum marks that shall be obtained for each
subject are as follows :–
Subject Marks Minimum marks
that shall be
obtained for a
pass
1 General Intelligence 100 50
2 Social, Economic, Political
background and trends in Sri Lanka 100 50
3 Global Trends 100 50
4 Aptitude for Management 100 50
5 Creative, analytical and
communication skills 100 50
Candidates should sit all the question papers.
14.2 General and structured interview :
(i) Interview shall consist of two parts namely ;
general interviews and structured interviews.
(a) General interview :
(i) The general interview shall held to verify
whether the candidate has satisfied
qualifications for recruitment mentioned in
No. 06 above and whether such qualifications
fall within the prescriptions made in the same.
(ii) The general interview board is appointed by
the Public Service Commission.
(b) Structured Interview :
(i) A structured interview shall be conducted
by an interview board appointed by the
Public Service Commission to measure the
management skills, leadership qualities,
communication skills and personality of the
candidates. The methodology used in this
regard shall be prepared by the Secretary of
Public Administration on the concurrence
of the Commission. The maximum marks
that can be obtained at the interview is
twenty five (25).
Subject Area Maximum
Marks
01 Management Skills 10
02 Leadership Qualities 05
03 Communications Skills 05
04 Personality 05
Total 25
(ii) Candidates who secure highest marks
according to the aggregate of marks from all
the subjects out of the candidates who
secure at least 50% of marks or above for
each subject shall become qualified to appear
for the general interview. A number of
candidates from among the qualified
candidates, which shall be the aggregate of
the number of recruitments to be made
according to the expected number of
vacancies and 25% of the number of
vacancies expected, shall strictly be called
for the general interview. At the instances
where the number of eligible candidates is
not similar to the above number, only the
qualified candidates shall be called for the
general interview.
(iii) General interview shall be conducted before
the structured interview for verification of
qualification and marks shall not be allocated
at the general interview. Candidates who are
proved to have possessed all the
qualifications for recruitment at the general
interview shall become eligible for calling
for structured interview. If a certain number
of candidates called for general interview
are not qualified for calling for structured
interview, no other candidates shall be called
for the general interview in place of
disqualified candidates.
(iv) Appointment shall be made to Grade three
(III) according to merits beginning from
candidates who have scored highest marks
as per the total marks obtained at the written
examination and the structured interview by
the number of candidates expected to be
appointed according to the existing
vacancies.
N. B. – (Opportunity given to a candidate for
appearing for the interview does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has
possessed qualifications to be awarded an
appointment).

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1116
15. Syllabus of the written examination :
(01) General Intelligence. – It is expected to assess the
candidate's capacity for applying analytical skills,
capacity for critical reasoning and interpretation on
problems presented in numerical, linguistic and
Morphological contexts and interrelationship for other
situations and the level of intelligence of the candidates
on decision making.
(Duration 1 1/2 hours - 100 marks. This question
paper shall consist of multiple choice questions and
questions for short answers. Candidates are required
to answer all questions)
(02) Social, Economic, Political background and trends in
Sri Lanka :
It is expected to assess the subject related knowledge
on social, economic, political, cultural, scientific and
technological situations of Sri Lanka or the ability of
analytical, creative and critical reasoning in relation to
the situations given to the candidates capacity for
determine priorities and the skill on strategic
forecasting.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This question paper
shall consist of structured essay type, essay type,
multiple choice questions and questions for short
answers. Candidates are required to answer all
questions).
(03) Global trends :
It is expected to assess the subject related knowledge
on social, economic, political, cultural, scientific and
technological situations globally or the ability of
analytical, creative and critical reasoning in relation to
the situations given to the candidates, capacity for
determine priorities and the skill on strategic
forecasting.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This question paper
shall consist of structured essay type, essay type,
multiple choice questions and questions for short
answers. Candidates are required to answer all
questions).
(04) Aptitude for Management :
This paper is designed to assess the candidate's skills
for identifying problems and reasons for such
problems, making decisions, maintaining interpersonal
relationships and communications, self discipline and
preparation of strategies and the skill of candidates on
problems presented in the context of issues and
situations in conceptual and intellectual aspect.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This question paper
shall consist of structured essay type, essay type,
multiple choice questions and questions for short
answers. Candidates are required to answer all
questions).
(05) Creative, Analytical and Communication Skills :
To test the candidate's capacity for conceptualization,
critical erasoning and his judgmental abilities in the
development, organization and presentation of ideas
and information on a topic/theme chosen by the
candidate from a given set of topics/themes and the
ability to comprehend a fairly complex passage, a
piece of writing or a memorandum and express the
salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly and accurately
in the candidate's own words.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks, Candidates are required
to answer all questions).
16. In case an inconsistency among the matters in Sinhala, Tamil
and English notifications. Sinhala notification shall come into force.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
22nd May, 2014.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
OPEN COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE III OF THE  SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE – 2013(2014)
APPLICATION
1.0 Medium :
Language medium of examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
Eg :– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1117
2.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(Admission Card will be posted to this address)
(In English Block Capitals)
2.5 Permanent Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.6 Sex :
(Male  -  0,  Female  - 1)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Civil Status :
(Unmarried  - 1,  Married  - 2)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.8 Ethnic group :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,
Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.9 National Identity Card No. :
2.10 Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
2.11 Age as at 07.07.2014 which is the date of fulfilling
qualification :
Years : Months : Days :
2.12 T elephone No. :
3.0 (i) Date of graduation :–––––––––.
(ii) University/Institute :–––––––––.
(iii) Registration Number :–––––––––.
(iv) Internal/External :–––––––––.
(v) Degree :–––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :–––––––––.
(vii) Class :–––––––––.
(viii) Upper/Lower :–––––––––.
(ix) Index Number :–––––––––.
(x) Language medium of Examination :–––––––––.
4.0 Paste the cash receipt properly here.
(Paste the receipt here securely)
(It would be advisable to keep a photocopy with the candidate)
5.0 Declaration of the candidate :
I declare that information given is this form is true to the best of
my knowledge and belief and that I have affixed the receipt
No. .......... dated ................ being the payment of the
examination fee. I also agree to be bound by the rules governing
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel
my candidature prior to, during or after the examination, if it is
found that I am ineligible according to the regulations of this
examination. Further, I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by Commissioner-General of Examinations
as conducting of the exam.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––.
6.0 Attestation of the applicant's signature : (Para 8(d) of the
Gazette Notification) :
I hereby certify that ....................... (Full name) who submits
this application is known to me personally, that he/she has
paid the prescribed examination fee and affixed the relevant
receipt herein. He/She placed his/her signature in my presence
on ....................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :–––––––––.
Name in full of the Officer attesting the signature :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Address :–––––––––.
(To be certified by placing the Official Stamp)
06-176
–––––––––––––––––––
LIMITED  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE III  OF SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  SERVICE – 2013(2014)
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from qualified candidates for
Limited  Competitive Examination for recruitment to the posts of
Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
1. In this notification the terms :
(a) “Secretary” means the Secretary of the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs.
(b) “Service” means the Sri Lanka Administrative Service.
2. Recruitment to Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service
is made by this examination.
Written Examination .– This Examination will consist of the
following four (04) question papers.
(i) General Intelligence
(ii) Social, Economic, Political background of Sri Lanka and
Global Trends

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1118
(iii) Case study relating to Public Administration I (Relevant
to Establishments Code, Procedural Rules of Public
Services Commission and Financial Regulations) ;
(iv) Case study relating to Public Administration II (Relevant
to the evaluation of creative, analytical and communication
skills).
Date of Examination. – This examination will be held in
September, 2014 in Colombo. The Secretary reserves the right to
postpone or cancel this examination subject to instructions of Public
Service Commission.
Interview.– General and structured interview will be held for the
candidates who have appeared for all the papers of the written
examination and secured a sufficiently high aggregate of marks as
determined by the Public Service Commission. The date of the
interviews shall be determined by Secretary.
3. Number of persons to be appointed is 46. At the instances
where there are candidates, who have secured equal marks for the
final vacancy or final few vacancies, above the number of vacancies,
the decision of filling such vacancies shall be taken by the Public
Service Commission as per Section 80 of Procedural Rules. The
effective date of the appointment shall be determined on the order
of the Public Service Commission.
4. Conditions of Service :
4.1 A selected candidate shall be appointed to Class III of
Sri Lanka Administrative service subject to general
conditions governing the appointments in the Pubilc
Service and on the terms and conditions set out in the
Minute of Sri Lanka Administrative Service published
in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1842/2 of 23.12.2013 and to
any amendments made or to be made to the minute
hereafter, Financial Regulations in the Establishments
Code and Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission
published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1,589/
30 of 20.02.2009.
4.2 This post is permanent and pensionable. Shall contribute
to the Widows' and Orphans' Pension Scheme/Widowers'
and Orphans' Pension Scheme.
4.3 Appointment is subject to an Acting Period of one year.
First Efficiency Bar Examination shall be passed within
03 years from the date of recruitment to Grade III of Sri
Lanka Administrative Service as mentioned in the service
minute.
4.4 Prescribed official language proficiency shall be obtained
within 05 years of joining the service as per Public
Administration Circular No. 01/2014 and consequent
circulars.
4.5 Public Service Commission reserves the power to cancel
the appointment of any candidate who fails to assume
duties of the appointed post on due date and/or rejects
or avoids serving in an area where he/she is appointed.
5. Monthly Salary Scale.– S. L. 1-2006 salary segment of Public
Administration Circular 06/2006 is applied to this service and the
salary scale entitled to the said salary segment is as follows :
Rs. 22,935 -10x645 - 8x790 -17x1,050 - Rs. 53,555 (Monthly).
6. Qualifications for Recruitment :–
(a) (i) Shall be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(ii) Shall be excellent of character,
(iii) Shall be of an excellent moral character and physical
fitness to serve at any part of the Island.
(b) Educational Qualifications and Experience :–
(i) Shall have obtained a degree from a university or a
degree awarding institution recognized by the
University Grants Commission ;
and
Shall be an officer in a permanent and a pensionable
post in Public Service or Provincial public Service
receiving a salary under Salary Code MN 2-2006 or
above MN Salary Code mentioned in Public
Administration Circular No.  06/2006 or receiving a
salary in a service/post under Salary Code S. L. 1-
2006 with at least five (05) years active and satisfactory
period of service ;
or
(ii) Shall be an officer in a permanent and a pensionable
post in Public Service or Provincial Public Service
receiving a salary under Salary Code MN 2-2006 or
above MN Saalry Code mentioned in Public
Administration Circular 06/2006 or recieving a salary
in a service/post under Salary Code S. L. 1-2006 with
at least ten (10) years' active and satisfactory period
of service.
Note :
1. The effective date of the degree shall be date on or
before 31.12.2013.
2. The total of continuous periods of service in Public
Service and/or Provincial Public Service is considered
when calculating the above mentioned period of
service.
(c) Age and other qualifications to be satisfied :
(i) Shall be not mroe than the age limit of 53 years of age
at 31.12.2013.
(ii) Shall have obtained permanent post in a service/post
mentioned in above 6(b).
(iii) Shall have not subjected to any disciplinary punishment
in immediately preceding 05 years.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1119
(iv) Shall have earned due salary increments in immediately
preceding 05 years.
(d) Restrictions for qualifications :
(i) No candidate shall be permitted to sit for Limited
Competitive Examination more than two (02)
occasions. (Number of sittings at the examinations to
recruit Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service
under the previous service minute are not considered).
(ii) The qualifications required to apply for this
examination shall have been satisfied by 31.12.2013
in full.
(iii) No person who is ordained in any religious order shall
be allowed to sit for this examination.
7. Examination fee. – The fee for the examination will be
Rs. 1,000. This should be paid before the closing date of applications
at any District/Divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue
Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examination and
the receipt obtained thus should be affixed in the relevant cage of
the application form. The fee is non-refundable. It would be
advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
8. Method of Application :
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared on
paper of A4 size using both sides. It is to be specifically
noted that the application should be prepared in such a
way that headings No. 1.0 to 2.12 appear on the 1st page,
3.0 to 4.(11) on the second page and the rest on the third
page. An application prepared with computer/typed
applications can also be used for this purpose. The
application should be filled legible by the candidate
himself in his own handwriting and applications that do
not comply with the specimen or that have not been
completed properly will be rejected without notice. It is
advisable to keep a photocopy of the application with
the candidate. It is the responsibility of the candidate to
verify that the perfected application complies with the
specimen given in the notification, as otherwise, the
application may be rejected.
(b) The application should be prepared in the same language
in which the candidate intends to sit the examination. It is
required to indicate the name of the examination in English
also in the applications prepared both in Sinhala and
Tamil media.
(c) Applications perfected by candidates should be sent
through the respective Head of Department to reach the
following address before 07th July, 2014 by Registered
Post. The top left corner of the envelope containing the
application should clearly bear the words "Limited
Competitive Examination for recruitment to Sri Lanka
Administrative Service - 2013(2014)". Application
received after this date will be rejected.
The Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
P. O. Box - 1503,
Colombo.
(d) The post and the service station where the applicant is
serving at the time of applying for the examination is
relevant for all the activities with regard to the examination
and the changes occur after sending the applications are
not considered.
(e) Applications that are not complete in every aspect will
be rejected. Complaints on applications getting lost or
delayed will not be entertained.
(f) A notification will be published in newspapers by the
Department of Examinations as soon as the admission
cards are issued to candidates. If the admission card is
not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement.
The name of the examination, full name of the applicant,
address and identity card number should be mentioned
when informing the Department of Examinations. In case
of applicants outside Colombo, it will be more effective
to send a letter of request to the fax number mentioned in
the said advertisement furnishing a fax number to which
the admission card should be sent. It would be advisable
to keep a copy of the application form and the receipt
kept at applicant's possession, copy of the receipt of
examination fees and the receipt of registering the letter.
9. Admission to Examination :
(a) The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
Admission Cards to all persons whose applications are
perfected in each and every way have been received.
Any candidate who fails to produce his admission card
will not be permitted to sit the examination.
(b) Candidates must sit the examination at the examination
hall assigned to him. Every candidate should get his
admission card attested in advance and surrender it to
the supervisor of the hall on the first day he presents
himself for the examination. A set of rules to be observed
by all candidates is published at the begining of gazette.
(c) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
on conducting the examination and they are liable to a

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1120
punishment imposed by him for breach of these rules.
The decision of the Commissioner General of
Examinations on conducting the examination and
issuance of results shall be the final decision.
Note.– Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does
not necessarily mean that the candidate has
satisfied the qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Identity of Candidates.– A candidate will be required to prove
his identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, one of the
following documents only, will be accepted :-
(a) National Identity card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information .– If a candidate is
found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
state prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a
candidate has purposely furnished false information or willfully
suppressed any material fact, he or she will be liable for dismissal
from the Public Service.
12. Any matter not provided for in this notification shall be
dealt with as determined by the Secretary subject to the instructions
of the Public Service Commission.
13. Scheme of Examination and Language medium of
Examination :
(a) The examination will be held in the language media of
Sinhala, Tamil and English ;
(b) A candidate should sit the examination in the language
medium in which he passed the qualifying examination/
interview for entry to public service or in an offiicial
language ;
Note :
(i) A candidate should sit for all the papers of the
examination in one and the same language.
(ii) Candidates will not be permitted to change the
language medium indicated in the application form.
14. Method of Recruitment :
14.1 Written examination :
A written examination consisting of following subjects
shall be conducted. The subjects and the minimum marks
to be obtained from each subject are as follows :
Subject Marks Minimum
pass marks
1 General Intelligence 100 50
2 Social, Economic and Political 100 50
Background in Sri Lanka and
Global Trends
3 Case study relating to Public 100 50
Administration I (Relevant to
Establishments Code, Procedural
rules of Public Service
Commission and Financial
Regulations)
4 Case study relating to Public 100 50
Administration II (Relevant to
the evaluation of creative,
analytical and communication
skills)
Candidates shall sit for all question papers.
14.2 General and structured interview :
(i) The interview consists of two parts i. e. General
interview and structured interview.
(a) General interview :
(i) The general interview shall be conducted to
ascertain whether the qualifications for
recruitment stipulated in para 06 above have
been fulfilled and whether the applicants
conform to the restrictions on eligibility.
(ii) The panel of the general interview board shall
be appointed by the Public Service
Commission.
(b) Structured Interview :
(i) The structured interview shall be held in
line with the following procedure to measure
the managerial skills, leadership qualities,
communication skills and personality of
candidates. The methodology adopted in
this regard has been formulated by the
Secretary of Public Administration in
consultation with the Public Service
Commission. The maximum marks that can
be obtained at this interview is twenty five
(25).
Maximum
Subject Area Marks
01 Management Skills 10
02 Leadership Qualities 05
03 Communication Skills 05
04 Personality 05
Total 25

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1121
(ii) Out of the candidates who have scored a
minimum of fifty (50%) marks in each
subject, those who score the highest marks
in the aggregate for all the subjects will
qualify to appear for the general interview.
Out of the candidates qualified, only a
number equivalent to the total number of
those expected to be recruited according to
the vacancies expected to be filled and a
25% of the number of vacancies expected
will be called for the general interview. If
the number of qualified applicants does not
amount to the number mentioned above,
only such numbers of candidates who are
so qualified will be called for the general
interview.
(iii) The general interview shall be held prior to
the structured interview to examine
quailfications and no marks shall be allocated
there. Applicants confirmed to have fulfilled
all qualifications for recruitment at the
general interview shall qualify to be called
for the structured interview. Even if a certain
number of candidates are not qualified to be
called for the structured interview, other
candidates shall not be called again for the
general interview in place of those who are
not so qualified.
(iv) Appointment sahll be made to Grade three
(III) according to merits beginning from
candidates who have scored highest marks
as per the total marks obtained at the written
examination and the structured interview by
the number of candidates expected to be
appointed according to the existing
vacancies.
Note.– Opportunity given to a candidate for appearing
for the interview does not necessarily mean
that the candidate has possessed
qualifications to be awarded an appointment.
15. Syllabus of the Written Examination :
(01) General Intelligence.– It is expected to assess the level
of intelligence of the candidate in analytical skills,
logical comprehension, interpretative ability, ability
in application to other situations and arriving at
conclusions, in response to problems presented in
relation to numerical, lingual and figurative structure
and inter-relations.
(Duration 1 1/2 hours - 100 marks. This paper shall
consist of Multiple Choice Questions and Questions
for Short Answers. All questions shall be answered)
(02) Social, Economic, Political background of Sri Lanka
and global trends :
It is expected to assess the subject knowledge of the
candidate on social, economical, political, cultural,
scientific and technological conditions in Sri Lanka
and in the globe or his ability to think creatively,
analytically and critically and ability to decide priority
and strategic projection in response to a situation
presented to the candidate.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This paper shall consist
of Multiple Choice Questions, Questions for short
Answers, Structured Essays and Essays. All questions
shall be answered).
(03) Case study relating to Public Administration 1 (Relating
to Establishments Code, Procedural rules of the Public
Service Commission and Financial Regulations :
It is expected to test the candidate's creative thinking
power and problem solving ability in terms of the
practice of government service as per the
Establishments Code and the Financial Regulations
by presenting to him a case/cases built up connecting
one or several problems that may arise in different
environments in the public service.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks. This paper shall consist
of Multiple Choice Questions. Questions for short
answers. Structured Essays and Essays. All questions
shall be answered).
(04) Case study relating to Public Administration II
(Relevant to assessment of Creative, Analytical and
Communication skills) :
It is expected to test the candidate's ability for reasoning
and imagination in relation to the analyzing, collating
and presenting of veiws and information on a topic/
theme selected by the candidate from a given set of
topics/themes and the ability to comprehened a
complex passage, a piece of writing or a memorandum
and express the salient ideas thereof concisely, clearly
and accurately in the candidate's own words.
(Duration 3 hours - 100 marks. All questions shall be
answered).
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English text of this Examination Notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
22nd May, 2014.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1122
Specimen Application  Form
(For office use only)
LIMITED COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR
RECRUITMENT TO GRADE  III  OF SRI  LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE – 2013(2014)
1.0 Medium :
Medium of Examination
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
The application should be filled in the medium of language in
which the candidate intends to sit the examination.
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials at the end  (In English Block Capitals)
:––––––––––.
Eg :– GUNAWARDHANA, M. G . B. S. K.
2.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
2.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Official Address in English block capitals :–––––––––.
(Admission card will be sent to this address)
2.5 Official Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.6 Private Address :––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.7 Sex :
(Male  -  0,  Female  - 1)
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Marital Status :
(Single - 1,  Married - 2)
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
2.10 Race :
(Sinhala - 1, Tamil - 2,
Indian Tamil - 3, Muslim - 4, Other - 5)
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
2.11 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.12 T elephone No. :
3.0 Indicate the language medium in which you passed the qualifying
examination/Interview for entry to the service/grade as at
31.12.2013 :–––––––––.
4.0 (i) Whether all the qualification mentioned in para 6 of the
Gazette Notification has been fulfilled ? :–––––––––.
(a) Age as at 31.12.2013 :–––––––––.
(b) Educational qualification and experience ,
State whether the candidate become qualified under
para 06(b) I or (b) II as per the para 06 (b) of the
Gazette Notification :––––––––.
Date of Graduation :–––––––––.
University/Institute :–––––––––.
Registration Number :–––––––––.
Internal/External :–––––––––.
Degree :–––––––––.
Subjects :–––––––––.
Class :–––––––––.
Upper/Lower :–––––––––.
Effective date of the Degree :–––––––––.
Language Medium in which the candidate sit for the
examination :–––––––––.
(c) Services/Grades that gives qualifications to the
candidature [Class, Grade or Segment (if any) should
be indicated]
Present Post :–––––––––.
Whether the said post belongs to Public Service or
Provincial Public Service ? :–––––––––.
Grade :–––––––––.
Class/Segment :–––––––––.
Date of appointment to the post :–––––––––.
Date of confirmation in the said post :–––––––––.
Salary Code and Salary Scale :–––––––––.
If several services are applicable for you to be qualified
for applying for this post, particulars of said periods
of (active and satisfactory) service shall be mentioned
in the following table :
Name of Service/ Salary Code as per the P . A. Date of
Grade Circular applicable Appointment
Ex : MN 2-2006(A)
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1123
(ii) Total period of active and satisfactory service as at
31.12.2013, on which the qualifications in the services/
grades of a approved post mentioned in para (6) of the
Gazette Notification shall be fulfilled :
5.0 Paste the cash receipt properly.
Paste the cash receipt (original) firmly, from the edge
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt)
6.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that during the five years preceding 31.12.2013, I have
earned all increments (excluding those conditional to passing
service or departmenal examinations), possessed active and
satisfactory service period as at 31.12.2013, as per para 06(b)
of the Gazette notification and that I have not been subject to
any form of disciplinary punishment (Excluding warning).
Further, I declare that I shall be bound by the decisions taken
by the Commissioner General of Examinations, on conducting
and issuing results of this examination.
I declare that I am eligible to sit this Limited Competitive
Examination as per all rules and regulations mentioned in the
Gazette and that to the best of my knoweldge, the information
given in this is true and that I have affixed the receipt No. .........
dated .............. being payment of the examination fees. I also
agree to be bound by the rules and regulations of this examination
and any decision that may be taken to cancel my candidature
prior or during or after the examination if it is found that I am
ineligible according to the minute of this examination. Further,
I declare that I shall be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations on
conducting of this examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
7.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department (Referring to the
personal file) :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss .......................... who is
submitting this appilcation is serving in a post of ................ in
Ministry/Department of ........................ under the Central
Government/Provincial Council of ............................ and has
earned all salary increments during the period of 5 years prior
to 31.12.2013 (Excluding those conditional to passing service
or departmental examinations), has not been subjected to any
disciplinary punishment (Except warnings) during the said
period, possessed active and satisfactory service period of
............. (five/ten) years, as per para 06(b) of the Gazette
Notification, he/she is eligible to sit for this examination as per
regulations stipulated in the relevatn Gazette Notification, he/
she has paid the prescribed examination fees and affixed the
receipt herein and signed this application in my presence.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of
Department/Authorized Officer.
Name :–––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––.
Date :–––––––––.
(Place Official Frank)
06-175
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development
DEPARTMENT OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION TO RECRUIT TO THE POSTS OF INSTRUCTOR CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE -
2014
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following posts of Instructor Class III  (Special Cadre) of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service, under
the Department of Technical Education and Training.
Post No. Post Sinhala Medium T amil Medium English Medium
1. Instructor (Electronics) 10 04 –
2. Instructor (Building Trade) 39 09 –
3. Instructor (Motor Mechanism) 29 08 –
4. Instructor (Wood work) 40 04 –
5. Instructor (Refregeration and Air Conditioning) 08 02 –

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1124
Post No. Post Sinhala Medium T amil Medium English Medium
6. Instructor (Technical Drawing) 35 08 –
7. Instructor (Electrical) 27 09 –
8. Instructor (English) – – 32
9. Instructor (Computer Technology) 20 03 –
10. Instructor (Science/Maths) 24 07 –
11. Instructor (Commerce) 34 09 –
12. Instructor (Metal Work) 29 06 –
13. Instructor (Jewellery Design and Manufacturing) 02 – –
14. Instructor (Agriculture) 06 – –
15. Instructor (Short hand and typewriting) 14 06 18
01. Procedure of Recruitment.– Recruitment will be made on the results of the Open Competitive Examination for the vacancies
in the posts of Instructor Class III (Special Cadre) of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service, under the Department of Technical Education
and Training. This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination on behalf of the Appointing Authority, in
terms of the service minute of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service.
02. Qualifications.– Every applicant should have fulfilled the following qualifications before the closing date of applications :
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should not less than 21 years and not more than 40 years of age on the closing date of application ;
(iii) Must have good moral character and physical fitness ;
(iv) Should have obtained 03 years teaching/industrial field experience after obtained a degree, in the relevant field from
recognized University, as follows :
No. Designation Educational/Vocational Qualification and Experience
1. Instructor (Electronics) have obtained
– A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Electronics and Telecommunication) ;
or
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Electrical Engineering - Electronics) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Electrical and Electronics Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the above qualifications.
2. Instructor (Building Trade) have obtained
– A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Civil Engineering) ;
or

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1125
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Civil Engineering) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Civil Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the abov equalifications.
3. Instructor (Motor Mechanism) have obtained
– A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical Engineering - Motor Mechanism) ;
or
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering - Motor
Mechanism) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the above qualifications.
4. Instructor (Wood Work) have obtained
– A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical/Civil Engineering) ;
or
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical/Civil Engineering) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Civil Engineering/Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
No. Designation Educational/V ocational Qualification and Experience

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1126
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the above qualifications.
5. Instructor (Refrigeration and Air have obtained
Conditioning) – A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical/Production Engineering) ;
or
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering - Refrigeration
and Air Conditioning) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the above qualifications.
6. Instructor (Technical Drawing) have obtained
– A course, including Technical Drawing as a subject of National V ocational
Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or above, from an institution recognized by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the above qualifications.
No. Designation Educational/Vocational Qualification and Experience

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1127
7. Instructor (Electrical) – A course, including Electrical Technology as a subject of National V ocational
Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or above, from an institution recognized by the
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Electrical Engineering) ;
or
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Electrical Engineering) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Electrical and Electronics Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the above qualifications.
8. Instructor (English) – A Degree from a recognized University with Engilsh as a subject ;
and
– Three (03) years experience in Teaching English after completion of such
qualifications ;
or
– Three year experience in teaching English after obtaining a degree from a recognized
University, in English medium.
9. Instructor (Computer Technology) – B. Sc. degree in Computer Science/Computer Engineering obtained from recognized
university ;
or
– B. Sc. degree including Computer subject as a main subject obtained from a
recognized university ;
or
– B. Sc. (Engineering) degree with Computer Science obtained from a recognized
university ;
or
– B. Sc. Degree obtained from a recognized University with Post Graduate Diploma
in Information Technology obtained from a recognized University ;
and
– Three (03) years teaching and/or practical experience, in Computer Technology ;
field after obtaining the above qualifications ;
or
– Two years full time Advanced Diploma certificate in Computer Technology
awarded by the National Institute of Business Management ;
or
– Equivalent or higher qualifications (Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of
Public Administration and the University Grant Commission) ;
and
– Five years teaching experience in Computer Technology field after completion one
of the above qualifications.
No. Designation Educational/V ocational Qualification and Experience

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1128
10. Instructor (Science/Maths) have obtained ;
– B. Sc. Degree including Physics and Mathematics (Applied Maths or Pure Maths),
from a recognized University ;
and
– Three (03) years teaching experience, after obtaining the degree.
11. Instructor (Commerce) have obtained ;
– A degree in Business Administration or Public Administration or Commerce or
Economics from a recognized university
– Diploma in Commerce obtained from a Technical College under the Department of
Technical Education and Training/Sri Lanka Institute of Advance Technology ;
or
– Equivalent or higher qualifications (Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of
Public Administration and the University Grant Commission) ;
and
– Three years (03) experience in teaching/relevant field after completion of the
qualifications.
12. Instructor (Metal Work) Have obtained ;
– A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– National Diploma in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– Higher National Diploma in Engineering (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– National Certificate in Technology (Mechanical Engineering) ;
or
– Full Technological Certificate of the City and Guilds of London Institute (in
relevant field) ;
or
– Equivalent or higher, recognized Technician level qualifications in the relevant field
(Qualifications accepted by the Ministry of Public Administration and the
University Grant Commission) ;
and
– have passed the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil
language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant field after completion
one of the above qualifications.
13. Instructor (Jewellery Design and Have obtained ;
Manufacturing) – A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– Diploma in Jewellery design and manufacturing ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in Jewellary design and
manufacturing.
No. Designation Educational/Vocational Qualification and Experience

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1129
14. Instructor (Agriculture) Have obtained ;
– A course of relevant field of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ) Level 5 or
above, from an institution recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational Education
Commission ;
or
– Diploma in Agriculture obtained from hardy Senior Technical College, Ampara,
Technical College Kuliyapitiya, Agriculture school in Kundasale or Agriculture
school in Peradeniya or equivalent or higher qualifications ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects including Sinhala/Tamil
language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant subject.
15. Instructor (Short hand and typewritten) Have obtained ;
– Higher certificate in short hand and typewriting and commercial certificate (book
keeping) in the relevant medium, obtained from a College of Technology/Technical
College under the Department of Technical Education and Training or equivalent
or higher quailfications ;
and
– have passed the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six subjects (06) including Sinhala/
Tamil language and Mathematics/Arithmetic at not more than two sittings ;
and
– Five years teaching and/or practical experience in relevant subject.
03. Conditions of Employment :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Selected candidates will be required to contribute to the Widows and Orphans,
Widower and Orphans Pension Scheme.
(ii) Will be subjected to three year period of probation.
(iii) Should liable to serve in any part of the Island.
(iv) Should pass 1st efficiency bar within 03 years from teh appointment to class III (Special Cader) of Sri Lanka Technical
Education Service, i. e. probationary period.
(v) Officers appointed to these posts are expected to obtain the proficiency in second language within 05 years from the
date of appointment, in terms of Public Administration Circular No. 01/2014.
04. Salary and Allowances. – The monthly consolidated salary scale applicable to this post is Rs. 22,935 - 645x10 - 790x8 -
1,050x17 - Rs. 53,555 (SL-1-2006) salaries will be paid in terms of P. A. Circular No. 06/2006 payment of increments will be subjected to
pass the Efficiency Bar, specified in paragraph 03(IV) above.
05. Written Examination.– The applicants to whome the admission has been issued must appear for the written examination,
conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination. Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. Applicants,
who submitted a degree in English medium as a qualification to apply to the Post of Instructor in English, must appear for a special question
paper, conduct in English Medium.
Syllabus.– Consist of following question papers :
General Knowledge - 100 marks Duration - 01 hour
This question paper has been set to assess candidates knowledge of economic, social political, Geographical matters in National
and International Level. This paper consist 50 multiple choice questions and all questions are compulsory.
General Intelligence - 100 marks Duration - 01 hour
This question paper is consist of multiple choice questions and short answer questions to examine candidates capability of
logically thinking, decisions making strength and discernment comprehension. This paper consist 50 multiple choice questions
and all questions are compulsory.
No. Designation Educational/V ocational Qualification and Experience

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1130
Special English Question Paper, to be appeared by the candidates who submitted a Degree in English medium as a qualification to
apply to the Post of Instructor in English  100 marks Duration - 03 hours)
This question paper consists of essay, evaluation, summarizing and intelligence.
06. Interview.– Candidates, who qualify according to the merit order of the competitive examination must appear for an interview
to verify basic qualifications, mentioned in the notification of recruitment. (marks will not be granted for the interview).
Priority list of candidates who got 40% or above for each subject will be prepared on the total of such marks and number of
Candidates recruit will be decided by the Public Service Commission, on the available number of vacancies in each subject field.
07. Method of Application :–
(I) Applications, should be prepared, indicating No. 01 to 07 apearing in 1st page, No. 08 to 11 appearing in 2nd page and
the rest in 3rd page and details relevant thereto should be indicated in their own hand writing, cleary in language medium
applied for the examination. Applications without conformity with the specimen form and incomplete applications will
be rejected, without notification. It will be useful to keep a photocopy of the application. When preparation of application,
name of the examination, mentioned in its caption, should be mentioned in English in addition to Sinhala in Sinhala
applications and in English in addition to Tamil in Tamil applications.
(II) Applications, prepared according to the undermentioned specimen form should be sent under registered cover to reach the
“Commissioner General, Organization and Foreign Examination Division, Department of Examinations, Pelawatte,
Battaramulla” on or before 07th July, 2014. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked “Post of Instructor
Class III (Special Cadre) of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service”. If applying more than one posts, post number and
post should be mentioned, according to the preference order for each post applied for. Only those who are possess basic
qualifications according to Gazette notification will be called for written examination.
(III) Appilcations of candidates, who are in Public Service, should be submitted through their Head of Departments.
(IV) Copies of following all documents, certified by the applicant that true copy, should be submitted together with the
application :
(i) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Baptismal Certificate or the Certificate of Birth issued for the purposes of the
Code of Regulations for Assisted Schools will not be accepted) ;
(ii) Degree Certificate with details of subjects or other educational certificates ;
(iii) Certificates of professional and/or Technical quailfication that confirm experience ;
(iv) Certificates of the highest examination passed in Sinhala, Tamil and English.
08. Date of Examination :
(I) This examination will be held in the month of September, 2014 in Colombo. The Commissioner General of Examinations
reserves the right to postpone or cancel this examination, on the instructions of Public Service Commission.
(II) Immediately after issue of admission cards to the candidates a newspaper notification will be published by the Department
of Examination. If admission card is not received by the applicant, even the lapse of 02 or 03 days after the publication
of such notice, candidates should notify the Department of Examinations, as setout in the notification. It will be more
useful to notify the Department along with a certified photocopy of the application and paying receipt retained by the
candidates registration receipt of post and fax number, when it is out side the Colombo to send the admission card, along
with the letter of request.
09. Admission to Examination :
(I) Admission card will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examination. Candidates should submit their admission
card with their signature, duly attested to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates, who failure to submit
admission cards will not be permitted to appear for the examination.
(II) Candidate should appear for the examination in stipulated examination hall. All rules and regulations to be abided by all
candidates are printed at the biginning of the Gazette notification.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1131
(III) Candidates will be subjected to the rules and regulations, enacted by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Relating to conduct the examination and in the event of violating these rules and regulations, he/she will be liable to a
punishment to be imposed.
10. Identity of Candidate.– Candidate will be required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject, he/she appear. For this purpose, one of the following documents will be accepted :
(I) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons,
(II) A valid passport.
11. Penalty for furnishing false information.– If the candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be cancelled at any
stage prior to, during or after the examination. If it is found that a candidate has furnished information with knowledge that they are false,
or if he has willfully suppressed any material, will be liable for dismissal from the Public Service.
12. Examination Fee.– The fee for the examination is Rs. 1,000. Such fee should be paid before the closing date of applications at
any People's Bank branch to the Account Number 176-1001-39026228 (Mid City Branch) of the Director General, Department of Technical
Education and Training. The receipt obtained from the People's Bank should be affixed at the relevant cage provided in the application. This
fee will not be refunded it is useful to retain a photocopy of the receipt.
13. Reference is requested to the conditions stipulated in the Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission and general
conditions applicable to appointments in the Public Service published at the beginning of paragraph 3 of this Gazette notification and also
to the Service Minute of Sri Lanka Technical Education Service, published in the General Part 1 of Gazette No. 415 of 15.08.1986. Clauses
of Section 10-12 of Chapter II of Establishments Code will be relevant as applicable for the Post.
14. Public Service Commission reserves the right, not to fill all or part of the vacancies.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala/Tamil and English texts of this notification, Sinhala text shall prevail.
By Order of Public Service Commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of Youth Affairs and Skills Development.
06th June, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION FORM
MINISTRY OF YOUTH AFF AIRS AND SKILLS DEVELOPMENT
COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR RECRUIT TO THE POSTS OF INSTRUCTOR IN CLASS III (SPECIAL CADRE) OF THE
SRI LANKA TECHNICAL EDUCATION SERVICE - 2014
Post Post No. Language, Medium of Examination
Whether you have to appear for a Special English Paper, according to paragraph 5 of the Gazette notification : Yes/No
01. Name with Initials :
Initials at the end :
(In capital letters) : Eg. : SILV A  A. B.
02. Name in full :–––––––––––––.
03. ( a) Official Address :–––––––––––––.
(b) Private Address (in capital letters) (Admission will be sent to this Address) :–––––––––––––.
(c) Personal Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
04. ( d) Whether a Sri Lankan : Y es No

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1132
05. ( a) Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
(b) National Identity Card Number :
06. Age as at closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
07. Details of Present Post :
(a) Post and the date of appointment :–––––––––––––.
(b) Whether permanent or temporary :–––––––––––––.
(c) Whether pensionable or non-pensionable :–––––––––––––.
(d) Whether confirmed in the post :–––––––––––––.
(e) Department :–––––––––––––.
(f) Institute/Place of work :–––––––––––––.
08. Particulars of Educational Qualifications (Including certificates of proficiency in Sinhala, Tamil Language) :
Examination University/Institution Year Subject field
1.
2.
3.
4.
09. Particulars of Teaching/Work Experience :
Name of the Institution Designation Certificate Period Subject field/
served obtained professional field
1.
2.
3.
4.
(Copies of relevant certificate should be attached)
10. Previous appointments (to be stated in chronological order with exact dates) :
Department/ Place of Designation Whether permanent or From To Period
Institution work temporary
1.
2.
3.
4.
11. Whether you have been convicted in a Court of Law ? If so give details :–––––––––––––.
12. If served in a Government Department/Corporation or Board state reasons for termination of service :–––––––––––––.
13. Is there any disciplinary inquiry pending against you ? If so state details in brief :–––––––––––––.
Receipt of the examination fees

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1133
I, hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate. I am also aware that if any particulars
contained therein are found to be false and incorrect, before selections, I am liable to disqualification and to dismissal without compensation
if the inaccuracy is detected after the appointment, further, I declare that I will subject to the rules and regulations, enact ed by the
Commissioner of Examinations regarding held the Examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
For Candidates of Public and Provincial Public Service :
Recommendation of the Head of the Department
I, hereby certify that the particulars contained in No. 01 to 13 of the above officer, are true and correct and that the correc t
examination fee has been paid and the receipt for the same is affixed.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––––.
06–107
–––––––––––––––––
PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Ministry of  Media and Information
COMPETITIVE  (OPEN/LIMITED) EXAMINA TION FOR
THE RECRUITMENT TO THE  EXECUTIVE CLASS I
GRADE III OF THE PRINTING SERVICE OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING - 2012
APPLICATIONS are invited under the direction of  Public Service
Commission from the qualified candidates to fill 20 vacancies for
the Posts of Class I Grade III of this Department. The applications
should be furnished according to the specimen given at the
conclusion of this notice, on or before the date mentioned, to the
Commissioner General of  Examinations, Organizations and Foreign
Branch, Department of Examinations,  Pelawatte, Battaramulla by
registered post.  “The Limited/Open   Competitive Examination to
recruit to Executive Class I Grade III of the Department of
Government Printing” should be clearly mentioned on the top left
corner of the envelope. If the applications are filled in languages
other than English Language, the name of the Examination has to be
written in respective languages on the application in addition to the
name of the examination written in English.
 (a) The applications should be sent on or before 07th July,
2014.
N. B.- Any complaint regarding the loss or delay in the post
will not be considered. Any inconvenience caused due  to
being delayed until the last date in sending the applications
should be borne by the applicants.
(1) Method of Recruitment .— The applicants who obtained the
required marks in the open competitive examination should be called
for an interview and after examining the qualifications internal and
external candidates will be recruited.
Every applicant should be answered to all Question Papers.
Those who secured 40% from each paper are called for  an interview
depending on the number of vacancies. An Interview Board
comprised of the approved members of the Public Service
Commission would examine the qualifications. (no marks will be
given in the interview)
The number of appointments and the date of appointment will
be decided by the Public Service Commission.
(2) Salary Scale  .— According to the Public Administration
salary circular No. 6/2006. this post carries (monthly) Salary Scale
of :-
SL -1 - 2006 Rs. 22,935 - 10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x 1,050 -
Rs. 53,555.
(3) Conditions of Employment :–
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. contributions
should be made to the widow/widowers and Orphans
Pension Fund.
(ii) Officers who are selected externally for this post are
liable to undergo three (03) year probation period while
those officers who are selected internally are required
to undergo one year acting period in the respective
selected post.
(iii) In  terms  of  the  Public  Administration  Circular
No. 01/2014 and other similar  circulars those who are
selected for the posts should gain the proficiency in
official languages.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1134
(iv) These appointments are subjected to the procedural
rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishment
Code of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka,
Financial Regulations of the Government and other
applicable Departmental regulations.
(4) Qualifications :–
4.1 For External Candidates :  07 Vacancies
The Post of Assistant Government Printer (Production)
(i) Should have obtained a Science Degree with a class and
with Chemistry/Computer Science (as main subject),
or Degree in Printing Technology from a University
recognized by the University Grants Commission ;
or
(ii) Should have obtained a Degree in Printing Engineering
or Engineering (Mechanical/ Electrical/ Telecommun-
ications/  Electronics/Production) ;
or
(iii) Should have followed two (02) courses in Printing
Technology in Sri Lanka Institute of Printing (Duration
of courses should not be less than one year) and also
should have five (05) years service in the Department
of Government Printing with a Science Degree.
  4.2  For Internal Candidates :  08 Vacancies
Assistant Government Printer (Production)
(i) Should be an officer who has been held a post of Head
Foreman or Grade II  Foreman in the Printing Service;
and
Should have obtained certificates for 2 courses in Printing
Technology in the Sri Lanka Institute of  Printing  from
a recognized institute of Printing (Duration of a course
should not be less than one year) ;
or
(ii) should be an officer who has been held a post of the
Head Printing Editor or Assistant Head Printing Editor
Grade II in Printing Service and should have followed
and obtained  certificates for  3 courses in Printing
Technology from the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing or
from a recognized Institute of Printing (Duration of a
course should not be less than one year)
(iii) Should have completed a satisfactory service in
succeeding five (05) years, proceeding immediately on
the final date of closing applications.
Post of Assistant Government Printer
(Maintenance)  (03 posts)
Qualifications :
(i) Should be an officer who has been held the Head Foreman
(Maintenance) or Grade II Foreman (Maintenance) in
the Printing Service.
(ii) Should have obtained certificates in 02 courses in
Printing Technology in Sri Lanka Institute of Printing
or from a recognized Institute of Printing (Duration of a
course should not be less than one year) ;
or
Should be a Head Foreman in Grade I, with Ten (10)
years consolidated experience in the Grade I or Grade II
Foreman Posts ;
(iii) Should have completed satisfactory service in succeeding
five (05) years preceding immediately on the final date
of closing applications.
Post of Assistant Government Printer  (Printing Editor)
(02 posts)
Qualifications :
(i) Should be an officer who has been held the Head Printing
Editor or Grade II Printing Editor in the Printing Service;
and
Should have obtained certificates for 2 courses from Sri
Lanka Institute of  Printing or from a recognized institute
(Duration of a course should not be less than one year) ;
(ii) Should have completed satisfactory service in succeeding
five (05) years preceding immediately on  the final date
of closing of applications.
(5) Physical Qualifications :
(i) Every candidate should be ready to work throughout
Sri Lanka.
(ii) Should possess adequate physical and mental fitness.
(6) Age Limit :
(i) Should not be less than 22 years of age and not more
than 28 years of age.
(Permanent applicants of the Department are exempted
from this age limit)
(7) Other Qualifications :
(i) Applicants should be Citizens of Sri Lanka;
(ii) Applicants should be of unblemished character;
(iii) Should not be a monk, priest or clergy of any religion;

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1135
(iv) Applicant should have completed all the required
Qualifications on every  manner for the recruitment to
the post on the last date of publication of the notice/
Gazette for Publication.
(8) .1 Written Examination .—
8.1.1 This examination is held under the patronage of the
Commissioner General of Examinations
8.1.2 Recommended field of subjects
Written examination will be held on following subjects
to recruit Grade III officers.
(i) Comprehension 02 hours - 100 marks
(ii) General Intelligence 01 hour - 100 marks
(iii) General Knowledge 02 hours - 100 marks
Name of Examination Syllabus
(i) Comprehension By this paper a few short sentences
should be included into one sentence,
definitions for specific underline words
find out most suitable alternative clause,
Comprehensive Questions and writing
own essay on given paragraph to prove
candidate’s capability in expression of
precise and clear presentation of ideas
and language, summerizing and
vocabulary strength in essay writing.
(ii) General A Question paper to test the General
Intelligence Intelligence, logical skills, expression of
ideas, psychological power,
Telepathitical ability,  statistical skills
and comprehension skill.
(iii) General Candidates   are   tested   on   following
Knowledge options - Local and International
prominent information, current affairs
of scientific and industrial development
skills in printing field and social,
economic wellbeing cultural and
environmental situation of the candidates
dwelling area.
 A written aptitude test will be held to officers to absorb Grade III
Cadre  on following subjects:
(i) General Administration : 03 hours 100 marks
(ii) Printing technology  : 03 hours 100 marks
  Name of the paper Syllabus
(i) General Procedural rules of the Public Service
Administration Commission, Establishment Code
Statutes and departmental regulations
and knowledge are tested in this paper.
(ii) Printing (i) Pre- Printing
Technology Type setting , Lay outing papers, creating
computer designs, works in process camera,
planning and lay-outing by using film roles,
Ripping, setting images, Forming plates and
forming polymer plates.
(ii) Printing
Print Offset Litho Web
Print Letter Press forms
Print Letter Press Rotary.
(iii) Post Printing
Cutting, Folding, Gathering and
Inserting wiring, sewing sections and
perfect binding Forming case covers,
making ledgers, foiling Rebinding and
special Binding works.
(iv) Other  Cutting using  dye, blind
embossing, foil laminating, creasing and
perforating, costing and Estimation ,
security printing.
(v) Future Requirements :- setting plates,
print continuous stationery, Digital
Printing
(vi) Compiling :- Pre-Editing , proof
Reading, Examining machine proofs.
(vii) Maintaining and repairing machines
and machine Parts in the Equipment
Maintaining and repairing machines
and Electric parts in the Equipment
maintaining and repairing computer and
electronic parts Maintaining and
repairing buildings (including electric
parts)
(Applicants are given opportunity to
answer Four (04) Questions from Four (04)
preferable parts out of the given questions
from each part mentioned above)
8.2 Interview .—
8.2.1 General Interview :- (marks are not awarded)
To examine whether recruitment purpose and other
procedural qualifications are fullfiled or not and
physical capability.
(9) Examination rules .—
(i) The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil,
and English . Candidates are free to choose a medium at
their will but should answer all the papers in only chosen
medium.
 All external candidates should be answered to all three
(03) Question papers while internal candidates need to
answer only two (02) papers
  Name of the paper Syllabus

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1136
(ii) Examination fee is Thousand Rupees (Rs. 1,000/-)
This fee must be sent to Commissioner General of
Examination to be debited to his revenue head 2003-02-13
through any Post office throughout the Island and
receipt should affixed on the space indicated in the
application and photostat copy should be kept in your
possession for your own benefit.
(iii) Examination Fee is not refundable under any
circumstances.
(iv) This examination will be held in Colombo and the date
will be informed on due course.
(v) Illegible and incomplete applications will be rejected
without informing.
N. B.— Nobody is allowed to enter into the examination
hall without the admission card. On the examination
day the applicants should furnish only theirs
admission card with an attested signature.
(vi) The application must be prepared on a A4 paper and the
size is 22-29 cm and external applicants must place clauses
1.0 to 2.11 on front page of the application while clauses
3.0 to 6.0 on second page and Internal applicants must
prepare their application placing clauses 1.0 to 2.11 on
front page and 3.1 to 7.0 on second page and remaining
clauses on third page and particulars should be written by
own hand writing, if relevant and incomplete  application
will be rejected without further notice. keeping a copy of
the application with you, is helpful. Further, applicant
must compare the application with specimen published in
notice to ascertain the accuracy. Any discrepancy would
course to reject the application. Therefore advise to
applicant to prepare the application strictly according to
the speciman given in the notice of the Gazette Notification.
(vii) The receipt of application will not be acknowledged and
issue admission cards to applicants who would have
submitted completed applications in all aspects, soonafter
issuing the admissions cards it is published in the news
papers in all mediums. If the admission cards are not
received in two or three days after the notice published in
newspapers then need to inform to Department of
Education with a photostat copy of the application that
kept with you alone the copy of the receipt, if the applicant
stays out of Colombo a Fax Number must be sent with
requesting letter to the Examination Department of Sri
Lanka.
(viii) Commissioner of Examinations reserves the rights to
postponed  or cancel the examination with the approval of
Public Service Commission.
(ix) All candidates are bound to comply with procedural rules
imposed by Commissioner General of Examinations.
Violations of these rules are liable for punishment impose.
by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
(x) Identity of the applicant. - Candidates should prove their
identity to the supervisor of the Examination hall. For
this purpose one of  the following documents will be
accepted.
1. National Identity Card,
2. Passport,
3. Driving Licence.
Note.- (a) Any document should not be attached to the
application.
(b) If applicant fails to produce the documents when
demand then such applications are not be considered.
(c) Employees of Government Service/Local
Government Service/State Corporations should tender
their applications through heads of respective bodies.
Before the examination all such candidates should be
attested their signatures by the relavent heads of
their working place. Candidates who are not
employees as mentioned above, should get attested
by Principal of a School, Retired Principal, Grama
Niladhari of the area, Justice of Peace, Commissioner
of Oaths, Lawyer, Notary Public, Commissioned
Officer of any force, Any Government or Local
Government Staff Officer whose salary exceeds.
Rs. 240,360 or clergy of religious or someone holds
such dignity.
10. Punishment to false information .– If it is disclosed that an
applicant does not posses the qualification at anytime before the
examination or in the course of the examination or after the
examination, his/her application is liable to be cancelled. If it is
disclosed that an applicant has furnished false facts knowing that it
is false or that he/she has wilfully hidden any fact he/she is liable to
be dismissed from government service.
11. This post is liable to amendments of periodical procedural
rules of  the Public Service Commission Circulars of the Government
and Departmental Regulations to Grade III Executive cadre.
12. Any issue arise out of these regulations the Public Service
Commission reserves the ruling over such occassions.
By order of the Public Service Commission,
C
HARITHA HERATH,
Secretary,
Ministry of Media and information.
June 06, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
(For Office use only)
APPLICA TION FOR THE LIMITED COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO EXECUTIVE SERVICE CADRE, CLASS I GRADE III IN THE
PRINTING SERVICE - ASSISTANT GOVERNMENT PRINTER (PRODUCTION),
ASSISTANT GOVERNMENT PRINTER (MAINTENENCE - PRINTING
MECHANICAL) ASSISTANT GOVERNMENT PRINTER (MAINTENNCE -
ELECTRONICS) ASSISTANT GOVERNMENT PRINTER (PRINTING EDITOR) IN
THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING - 2012
1.0 Medium :
Language medium for the examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant number should be written in the cage)

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1137
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Last Name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters) Example : (SILV A, A. B.)
2.2 Name in full :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.3 Name in full :––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Permanent address : (In English capital letters) :–––––––.
2.5 Permanent address (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.6 Gender :
(Male - 0, Female - 1)
(Write relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Civil status :
(Single - 1, Married - 2)
(Write relevant number  in the cage)
2.8 National identity Card Number :
2.9 Date of birth :
Year :  Month :  Date :
2.10 Age as at the closing date for applications :
Years :  Months : Days :
2.11 Telephone Number (if any) :
3.1 The post apply :
Assistant Government Printer (Production) - 01
Assistant Government Printer (Maintenance -
Printing Mechanical) - 02
Assistant Government Printer
(Maintenance - Electronic) - 03
Assistant Government Printer (Printing Editor) - 04
(Write the relevant Number of the Post in the cage)
3.2 Do you intend to forward an application for the open competitive
       examination ? :––––––––––––.
4.0 Information regarding the Qualification :––––––––––––.
4.1 The current occupation and section in the Printing
Department.
4.2 The number of courses  you have followed in printing and
the name of the  institute :
5.0 Receipt
(Firmly paste the receipt here)
(Keep the photostat copy of the receipt)
6.0 Applicant's Declaration :
I, do hereby declare that the foregoing particulars  are true and the
No. ............... date ............... of receipt of fees are pasted on the
application.  I agree to abide by any decision to cancel  my examination
candidature before in the course of or after the examination and I
agree to be bound by the rules and  regulations stipulated  by the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant's Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
7.0 Attestation of the signature of the applicant:
(According to notice 9C  of the Gazette notification)
I, do hereby certify that   .......................... (Full name) who
submits this application is personally known to me and that he/she
placed his/her signature before me on this ..........................
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Officer attesting the Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Attesting Officer :––––––––––.
Occupation:––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
 (Official seal)
8.0 Certification of the Head of the Section of the Applicant :
I, do hereby certify that the applicant is currently .............
(designation) of ...........................(Branch) of Government Printing
Department and forward the application for further requirements.
––––––––––,
Head of the Section.
Date :––––––––––.
Full Name of the Head of the Section :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
9.0 Certification of the Head of the Section of  Personal files :
I, do hereby certify the applicant has fullfil every and single
required qualifications stipulated in Gazette Extraordinary
publication No. 1816/12 on 26.06.2013 and also clause 3.0 of Sri
Lanka Printing service minute and he/she is not guilty of any
disciplinary inquiry since ........ 2014 for the last five (05) years.
––––––––––,
Head of the Section of
Personal Files.
Date :––––––––––.
Name of the Head of Personal Files :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
(Official Seal)

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1138
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
For office use only
APPLICATION FOR THE OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINA TION FOR
RECRUITMENT TO EXECUTIVE SERVICE CADRE CLASS I GRADE III IN
THE PRINTING SERVICE IN THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT
PRINTING - 2012
1.0 Medium :
Medium for the Examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write relevant number in the cage)
2.0 Personal Information :
2.1 Last name with initials at the end :––––––––––.
(Eg.- SILV A, A. B. in English capital letters)
2.2 Name in full (In English capital letters) :––––––––––.
2.3 Name in full (Sinhala/Tamil) :––––––––––.
2.4 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(In English capital letters)
2.5 Permanent address :––––––––––.
(Sinhala/Tamil)
2.6 Gender :
Male - 0
Female - 1
(Write relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Civil Status :
Single - 1
Married - 2
(Write relevant number in the cage)
2.8 National Identity Card No :
2.9 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
2.10 Age as at the closing date of application :
Years : Months : Days :
2.11 Telephone Number (if any) :
3.0 (i) Date of  the degree (Read notice 7(ii) in Gazette
Notification carefully) :––––––––––.
(ii) University/Institute :––––––––––.
(iii) Date of Registr ation :––––––––––.
(iv) External/Internal :––––––––––.
(v) Degree :––––––––––.
(vi) Subjects :––––––––––.
(vii) Class :––––––––––.
(viii)Upper/Lower :––––––––––.
(ix) Examination Number :––––––––––.
(x) Medium for the Examination :––––––––––.
4.0 Firmly paste the receipt :
(Firmly paste the receipt here)
(Keep the photostat copy of the receipt)
5.0 Applicants declaration :
I, do hereby declare that the foregoing particulars are true and
the number ............. date ............... of receipt of fees are pasted on
the application. I also agree to abide by any decision to cancel my
examination candidature before in the course of or after the
examination and I agree to be bound by the rules and regulations
stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––.
6.0 Attestation of the signature of the applicant :
    (According to notice of the Gazette Notification)
I, do hereby certify that ................. (full name) who submits
this application is personally known to me and that he/she placed
his/her signature before me on this ..............
–––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting the signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Full name of the attesting officer :––––––––––.
Occupation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
(Official Seal)
06-465

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1139
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 40 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'06'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.06.2014
1140
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2014
JUNE 06.06.2014 Friday — 23.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
13.06.2014 Friday –– 30.05.2014 Friday 12 noon
20.06.2014 Friday –– 06.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
27.06.2014 Friday –– 13.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
JULY 04.07.2014 Friday — 20.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
11.07.2014 Friday –– 27.06.2014 Friday 12 noon
18.07.2014 Friday –– 04.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
25.07.2014 Friday –– 11.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 01.08.2014 Friday — 18.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
08.08.2014 Friday –– 25.07.2014 Friday 12 noon
15.08.2014 Friday –– 01.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
22.08.2014 Friday –– 08.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
29.08.2014 Friday –– 15.08.2014 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2014.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.