

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2142$91 - 2019 iema;eïn¾ ui 28 jeks fikiqrdod - 2019'09'28
No. 2142/91 - SATURDAY,  SEPTEMBER 28,  2019
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
PG 4682 - 12 (09/2019)
 The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Provincial   C ouncils Notifications
PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL   ANNOUNCEMENTS  UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Notice
I, Don Arthur Chamara Sampath Dasanayake, Chief Minister of Uva Province and Minister of Finance and Planning
hereby impose directives relating to the Provincial Revenue Department Inventive Allowance fund in accordance with
the powers vested under the provisions of statute No.2 of 1992 and statute No.4 of 1993 and Section 77 and Section 104
a of the amendment No.08 of 1990 of the Finance Statute of the Uva Province. These orders shall come into effect from
01.01.2017.
DON ARTHUR CHAMARA SAMPATH DASANAYAKE,
Chief  Minister of Uva Province and
Minister of Finance and Planning,Law and Order,
Education, Local Government, Land, Power & Energy,
Construction and Rural Infrastructure Development,
Uva Province.
Office of  the Chief Minister,
On 20th September, 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.09.2019
2 A
Finance Statute of the Uva Province No. 08 of 1990
Orders
1. This directive is enacted in accordance with the powers vested to the Chief Minister of Uva Province under the
chapter 77 and 104 A of the Uva Provincial Finance Statute No.08 of 1990 and its effective from the date of
publication in the Gazette .
2. Under the provisions stated in the Chapter 104 A of the Uva Provincial Finance Statute No.08 of 1990 Hereinafter
referred to as “the Statute”, regulations are enacted to the Administration of Provincial Revenue Department
Incentive Allowance Fund and provide for matters connected therewith. These orders will be known as the
Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Orders.
3. An account should be maintained for Provincial Revenue Department Officers Incentive Allowance Fund at a
Government Bank.
4. The purpose of the Fund’s existence is for the purposes of paragraph 104 A (3) (A) and (B).
That is,
(1) Payment of incentive allowance to Officers in the Provincial Revenue Department.
(2) Providing necessary funds for the welfare activities of the officers of the Provincial Revenue Department.
5. The Fund shall be administered by a committee of seven members, Hereinafter referred to as Committee and. The
composition of the Committee shall be as follows –
1. Chief Secretary of Uva Province,
2. Secretary, Ministry of Finance,
3. Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance),
4. Provincial Revenue Commissioner,
5. Deputy Provincial Revenue Commissioner,
6. Two Officers of the Provincial Revenue Service named by the Provincial Revenue Commissioner.
6. The fund account should consist of the following sources,
Amounts allocated annually by the Provincial Council for the purpose of incentive alowance work in terms of chapter
104 (2) of the Uva Provincial Finance Statute No. 08 of 1990.
(A) In the event that a tax or fee prescribed by any person has not been duly paid in accordance with the provisions
of a Charter administered by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue and the prescribed tax or fee is collected
as income, and
Not providing the reports required by such statutes to be submitted under a Statute implemented by the
Provincial Commissioner of Revenue and
Turnover as stated in a report, value stated in aninstrument of title, on confirmation that the declaration has
been false, according to the provisions of the statute an assessment by an assesse and,
25% of the revenue collected from the additional effort of the Officers of the Provincial Revenue Department
and
(B) 5% of the revenue collected by fines and penalties imposed under certainstatute implemented by the Provincial
Commissioner of Revenue,
Should be based on a proceeding for the amount of funds to be credited to the account.
7. Payments from the fund shall be made only for the following reasons:
1. As the purpose  of  establishing the Fund to provide half yearly incentives to the Officers of the Department of
Revenue, and for the arrears of incentives in salary revisions.
2. For the welfare of the Provincial Revenue Department Officers.

<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.09.2019
8. (1) The seal of the fund shall be placed in the hands of a member of the Committee, which is determined by the
Committee from time to time.
(3) The seal of the Committee shall not be placed on any document except in the presence of two members of
the Committee who shall sign the document unless otherwise approved by the Committee.
(4) The Committee shall elect two members of the Committee as Chairperson and Secretary of the Committee.
(5) The Chairman of the Committee shall preside over the meetings and the Chairman shall attend all
meetings. All questions to be decided at a meeting of the Committee shall be decided by a majority vote
of the members present. When the number of votes is equal, the chairman shall have a critical vote in
addition to his vote.
(6) (I) The role of the Secretary of the Committee is as follows.
(A) Summoning meetings on the knowledge of the Chairperson,
(B) Writing reports for Committee meetings and keeping them safe,
(C) Submitting the Committee with other feasible proposals,
(D) Handling Articles on behalf of the Committee,
(E) Maintains documents pertaining to the correspondence of the Committee,
(1) The Committee shall consist of five members.
(2) The Committee shall regulate the proceedings of the Committee and proceedings relating to its meetings.
(3) The evaluation of the Officers in the payment of Incentive allowances to the Officers of the Department
of Revenue shall be carried out by a three-member Sub-committee headed by the Provincial Commissioner
of Revenue as specified in the Incentive Payment Procedure, such Sub-committee shall be appointed
with the approval of the Provincial Revenue Department Officers Incentive Allowance Fund Committee.
Sub-committee decisions shall be subject to the approval of the Committee.
(9) The Committee shall perform the following functions:
(1) The Committee shall regulate the proceedings of the Committee and proceedings relating to its
meetings.
(2) Taking action to pay only for matters specified in Section 104A (3) of the statute and the Regulated
Fund Procedure.
(3) Granting approval for payment of Incentives at the rate agreed by the Committee on the basis of the
Sub-committee’s determination, in accordance with the procedure for the payment of funds from the
Fund.
(10)(I) The Fund’s financial year is a calendar year
(7) The accounting reports prepared for each calendar year in respect of the Fund’s account shall be kept
under the audit of the Auditor-General in accordance with Article 154 of the Constitution.
(11) (I) The Minister may from time to time specify the procedure of the Incentive Fund to regulate the
implementation of these Directives, to prescribe the procedure for the formulation of procedures, and
to prescribe such matters as may be prescribed.
(2) The procedure should be published in the Gazette  by the Minister.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 20 19'09'28
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 28.09.2019
4 A
10 - 503
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
(12) Unless otherwise noted in the context of these terms, these d ecrees
“Province” means Uva Provin ce.
“Provincial Counc il” means Provincial Council of Uva Province.
“Minister of Finan ce” means the Minister in charge of Uva Provincial Finan ce.
''Chief Secretary” means Chief Secretary of Uva Province.
 “Secretary of the Ministry of Finance” means Secretary of the Finance Ministry of Uva Provincial Council .
“Commissioner” means Commissioner of Uva Province Revenue Department.
“Fund” means the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund.
“Account” means the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Account.
“Committee” means the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Committee.
“Chairman” means Chairman of the Uva Provincial Revenue Department Incentive Allowance Fund Committee.
(13) If there is any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English texts in these directives, the Sinhala text shal l
prevail.