

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2115
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"038 – 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 22 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'09'22
No. 2,038 –  fRiday ,  sEPtEmbER  22, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 13th october, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th september, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting).
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2037 of 15.09.2017 was not published.
2113-b 81209- 5,403 (09/2017)
Note.–   appropriation bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
of september 15, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2017
2114
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
	 (ii)		Disqualification	from	one	subject		or		from		the	whole	examination	;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
	 (v)	Suspension	of	the	certificate	for	a	specified	period	;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall	be	deemed	final.		In	the	case	of	examinations		for	recruitment	to	the	
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member	of	the	Examination	Hall	Staff.	If	there	is	an	urgent	need	for	
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6.	A	candidate’s	answer	script	is	identified	only	by	the	Index	Number	
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing	an	index	number	that	is	difficult	to	decipher	is	liable	to	be	rejected.	
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should	be	tied	up	with	the	answer	script.	It	should	be	a	part	of	the	answer	
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside	the	Examination	Hall	should	not	be	taken	out.	If	a	question	has	
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any	file	cover,	card	board	pad,	folded	newspapers,	brown	papers	should	
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15.	Impersonation	while	answering	a	paper	or	before	the	commencement	
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)		Be		at	the	Examination	Hall	well	in	time.	It	is	sufficient	to	be	at	the	
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper.	If	you	have	any	doubt	as	to	the	location	of	the	Examination	Hall,	
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)		In	case	of	any	doubt	regarding	your	entry	for	a	paper	or	eligibility	
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their	identity	cards	at	every	paper	they	sit.	If	a	candidate	fails	to	produce	
identification	 documents	 at	 the	 Examination	 Hall,	 his	 candidature	 is	
liable	to	be	cancelled.	In	case	a	candidate	forgets	to	bring	such	documents	
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper,	precis	paper)	will	be	supplied.	If	you	receive	any	stationery	that	is	
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index	Number	and	the	name	of	the	Examination	on	each	sheet	of	paper	
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working	of	the	problem.	Necessary	sketches,	diagrams	and	figures	should	
be	accurate	and	sufficiently	large.	In	an		 answer	running	into	serveral	
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor	or	to	an	Invigilator.	Or	else	remain	in	your	seat	till	it	is	
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
	(xii)		If	it	becomes	necessary	for	you	to	speak	to	the	Supervisor	or	an	
Invigilator,	or	if	you	need	stationery,	remain	in	your	seat	and	raise	your	
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2017
2115
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
mINISTRy  Of hEALTh,  NuTRITION  AND  INDIGENOuS  mEDICINE 
Departmental   Examination   for   Preliminary   Grade
Medical   Officers   and   Dental   Surgeons – September,  2017
it is hereby notified that the Departmental Examination should be passed by Medical Officers in Preliminary Grade 
before promotion to Grade II, By Dental Surgeons before confirmation in the service and by the Medical officers in 
administrative Grade or specialist Grade who have not completed this departmental Examination during a period of 
two years from the date of appointment to such post as per section 08 of the medical service minute of sri Lanka in the 
Health services published in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic socialist Republic of sri Lanka No. 1883/17 of 
11.10.2014, will be held on 21.10.2017 in sinhala, tamil and English medium. the venue and the time of the examination 
will be notified along with the Admission Card.
02. Qualifications.– Medical Officers in the Preliminary Grade who have not completed the relevant examination 
and Dental Surgeons who are not confirmed in the service can apply for this examination. Medical officer appointed to 
a post in the administrative Grade or specialist Grade without having completed this examination also can apply for the 
above Examination.
03. Applications.– applications that should be prepared by the candidates as per specimen shown at the end of 
this circular must be handed over to the Head of the institute on or before 22.09.2017. The applications that are certified as 
all the eligibilities have been fulfilled, should be forwarded to the Director (Examinations), Ministry of Health, Nutrition 
and indigenous medicine, “suwasiripaya”, No. 385, Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha, colombo 10, on 
or before 30.09.2017 through their Heads of institutions. the Head of division should certify the accuracy of contents 
in each application. A self addressed envelope in the size of 9” x 4” inches, affixed with stamps to the value of Rs. 35.00 
should be sent along with the application. (Candidates can write their official or private address). Applications which are 
received late, incomplete or inaccurate will be rejected.
Note.– the application should be prepared using an a4 paper based on the specimen form of the application 
so as to recommended from 01 to 04(e) on the first front page and from 04(f) to 09 on the second page. 
applications which do not conform to above will be rejected any information. 
04. examination fees :
 I.  Candidates who sit the examination for the first time need not pay examination fees. However, in every 
subsequent sitting they should affix stamps to the value of Rs. 25 per subject in the stamps cage provided 
for in the application and cancel same by placing their signature and the date.
 ii. the fees once paid will not be allowed to transfer for any other Examination or refunded under any 
circumstances.
05. Admission to the examination:
 i.  candidates whose applications have been accepted will be issued with admission cards. they should 
duly complete and submit same to the supervisor at the Examination centre. otherwise they will not be 
allowed to sit the examination.
 ii.  candidates should prove their identity to the supervisor at the examination hall. for this purpose one of 
the following documents will be accepted :
  (a) National identity card ;
  (b) departmental identity card ;
  (c) Valid driving License ;
  (d) Valid Passport.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2017
2116
 iii. if you did not receive your admission card due to any unavoidable reason you can trace your examination 
centre and the index number through the web site ; if you were able to trace your examination centre 
and the index number as mentioned above you are permitted to be presented at the examination centre 
in the web site together with a letter attesting your signature by your immediate superior officer and sit 
the examination by establishment of your identity. the applicants who have received the admission card 
should certify their signature and should be bought. The applicants who have obtained the certification on 
their signature will not be entitled to face the examination. (Web site : www.health.gov.lk).
06. Scheme of the examination.– the examination consists of four parts that is three written essay type question 
papers and a sinhala/tamil oral test. Each part carries 100 marks. a minimum of 50 marks should be obtained for each 
part to pass the examination and this examination could be completed in one sitting or appearing for the parts of the 
examination in several sittings. At the first attempt officer should appear for all relevant subjects. 
07. Syllabus of the examination :
7.1 Written examination :
 7.1.1  Establishments code Questions Paper :
  Duration 02 hours. Should answer five (05) out of eight (08) questions.  
  Syllabus :
 (i)  General Regulations of the department of Health services in Health ministry ;
 (ii)  orders and Regulations of the Public service commission ;
 (iii) establishments Code :
Part i - chapters Vi, Vii, Viii, iX, Xii, Xiii, XiV , XV , XVi, XVii, XViii, XXiii, XXiV , XXV , 
XXVi, XXVii, XXViii, XXX, XXXi, XXXii
Part ii - chapters XLVii and XLViii ;
 7.1.2  Administration of Hospitals and Dispensaries Questions Paper :
  duration 1 1/2 hours. total marks 100. should answers four (04) questions out of seven (07) questions.
  Syllabus :
  Health manual :
 (i) administration of Hospital and Public Health, 
 (ii) management of Laboratory services, 
 (iii) management of drugs.
 7.1.3  Accounts Questions Paper :
  duration 02 hours. should answer 04 questions out of 07 questions.  
  Syllabus :
  (i)  Regulations of stores accounts of the department of Health services ;
 (ii)  sections of finance in the manual of the department of Health services ;
 (iii) Financial Regulations relating to the daily routine duties of a Medical Officer of Health -  
chapter i - f. R. 1, 2, 78.
chapter ii - f. R. 90, 91, 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106, 107, 108, 109, 110, 113, 115, 118, 119.
chapter iii - f. R. 124, 125, 126, 127, 128, 131, 133, 134, 135, 136, 137, 138, 139, 140, 142, 143, 
151, 152, 154, 155, 156, 189.
chapter V - f. R. 200, 201, 215, 225, 238, 245, 255, 257, 260.
chapter Vi - f. R. 380, 381, 382, 383, 384, 385, 386, 388, 389, 390, 391, 392, 393 394.
chapter Vii - f. R. 488, 493.
chapter Xiii - f. R. 715, 716, 756, 757, 758.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2017
2117
Procurement Guideline : 
chapter 1 - all sections
chapter 2 - section number - 2.3, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.7, 2.8.
chapter 3 - section number - 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9.   
7.2 Viva Voce - Sinhala/Tamil : This oral test is conducted by the staff officers of the Departmental to measure 
the proficiency in Sinhala/Tamil. Ability of the Sinhala medium officers to communicate in Tamil medium 
and the ability of the Tamil medium officers to communicate in Sinhala medium regarding the matters that 
arise while discharging their normal duties is tested. duration 10 minutes. 
8. to follow the regulations related to Examination Procedure.– candidates are warned against copying or 
attempting to copy from the script of another candidate or from any book or paper or notes whatsoever. No candidate 
should attempt to look at the script of another candidate and should not help any candidate either help another candidate 
or obtain help from another candidate or person. further mobile phone and the similar electronic equipments should not 
be used. any candidate who disregards this rule is liable to punishment. 
9. Please bring the contents of this circular to the notice of all relevant officers in your Division/Specialized 
campaign/institution. the information is also available in the Web site - www.health.gov.lk
N.B.– Sinhala medium notification on examination will be effected if any contradictory is arisen in 
the examination notifications published in Tamil and English mediums. 
 
M. B. L. RahuMan,
 deputy director General (admin.) ii,
 for secretary 
 ministry of Health, Nutirition and indigenous medicine. 
ministry of Health, Nutrition and indigenous medicine,  
“suwasiripaya”,
No. 385, Ven. baddegama Wimalawansa thero mawatha,
colombo 10,
28th august, 2017.
Specimen form of Application
 
For Office Use Only                
dEPaRtmENtaL  EXamiNatioN  foR  PRELimiNaRy  GRadE
MEDICAl  OFFICERS  AND  DENTAl  SURGEONS - SEPTEMBER, 2017
01. (a)  (i)  full Name of the applicant (in sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (ii)  full Name of the applicant (in English capitals block Letters) :
 (iii)  Name with initials (in sinhala) :–––––––––––––.
 (iv) Name with initials (in English block Letters) :

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2017
2118
  (b)  (i)  designation (Please mark () in relevant cage) :
   (i) Medical Officer   (ii) Dental Surgeon
 (ii)  date of internship appointment :–––––––––––––.
 (iii)  date of appointment to the Preliminary Grade/Grade ii :–––––––––––––.
02. subjects offered (mark ‘’ within the cages against the subjects you offer in this Examination. mark “X” against the 
subjects not offered) :
 admin. of Hospitals and dispensaries Est. code  accounts
 sinhala Viva Voce t amil Viva Voce
03. medium you sit for the examination  (mark ‘ ’ in relevant cage)
 sinhala                      English                        tamil 
04.  (a)  (i) Present station :–––––––––––. 
  (ii) this institution belongs to :  Line ministry
       Provincial council
 (b)   (i)  if Provincial council mention Province :–––––––––––.
   (ii) district of the Present station :–––––––––––.
 (c) t elephone No. :
 (d) identity card No. :
 (e)  Please mark  “” in the relevant cage of the examination centre you prefer out of the following centers. (if any 
or several examination centres, out of those given below, would be cancelled due to a departmental requirement 
or due to absence of a sufficient number of candidates. In such an instance, the candidates already attached to 
such centers would be re-attached to a closest examination centre or to another centre as decided by the director 
General of Health services).
  colombo Kandana Hambantota ampara
  Kaluthara Galle badulla Vavuniya
  Kurunegala anuradhapura Rathnapura Polonnaruwa
  Kandy batticaloa Jaffna trincomalie
 (f)  Whether two self-addressed envelop in the size of 9x4 inches with stamps affixed to the value of Rs. 35.00 has 
been attached to the application to post the admission card? :––––––––––.
 (g)  (i)  Postal address to post the admission card (in sinhala) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) Postal address to post the admission card (in English) :––––––––––––.
05.  (a)  Whether you sit for the examination for the first time :––––––––––––.
 (b)  If not so, have you affixed stamps to the application? :––––––––––––.
stamp cage

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'09'22
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 22.09.2017
2119
06. Certificate of the Candidate :
 (i)  i do hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to my 
knowledge and I need not affix stamps since, I sit the Examination for the first time/have affixed stamps to the 
value of Rs. ………… since i repeat the Examination, * and the stamps affixed by me to the application are 
genuine and not used.
 (ii)  i agree to abide by the rules and regulations stipulated by the ministry of Health Nutrition and indigenous 
medicine for the conduct of this Examination and if i was found ineligible in accordance with the scheme of 
the Examination i agree with whatever decision taken for the cancellation of my candidature.
 –––––––––––––––,
 signature of the candidate.
date :–––––––––––.
07. Certification of the officer who handle the Personal File : 
i certify that this application was handed over to me before the closing date and particulars furnished by the 
applicant in this application are true and accurate according to the particulars in the personal file and a copy of this 
application is attached to the personal file. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Name and signature.
date :–––––––––––.
08. Certification of Head of Institution :
 
i certify that mr./mrs./miss ........................ serves as a ................................ in this institution and the particulars 
furnished by him/her in the application are correct according to the particulars in his/her personal file and he/she sit the 
examination for the first time and he/she is eligible to sit this examination and he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence.
 ––––––––––––––––,
 signature of the Head of institution.
 (Rubber stamp)
date :–––––––––––.
09. Certificate of the Head of Decentralized Unit/Specialized Campaign :
*Mr./Mrs./Miss …………… serves as a Medical Officer/Dental Surgeon* in my Division/Campaign* and the 
particulars furnished by him/her* in the application are correct in accordance with the particulars available in his/her* 
personal file and he/she* is eligible to sit for the Examination.
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of Head of Decentralized Unit/
 specialised campaign (frank/Rubber stamp).
date :––––––––––––.
(* - delete words which are inapplicable)
09–491
PRiNtEd  at  tHE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  sRi  LaNKa.