

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2428$43 - 2025 ud¾;= ui 20 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2025.03.20
No. 2428/43  -  THURSDAY,   MARCH   20 ,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A - PG 7060 - 354 (03/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L. D. B. 7/2023
ThE  ANTI-CORRuPTION   ACT,  No.  9 of 2023
ReGULATioNS  made by the Minister of Justice and National integration in consultation with the Commission to 
investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption under Section 156 read with Section 82 and Section 92 of the Anti-
Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023.
	 Harshana	Nanayakkara,
 Minister of Justice and National integration.
Colombo,
19th March, 2025.
ReGULATioNS
 1.  These Regulations may be cited as the Anti-Corruption (Declarations of Assets an Liabilities) Regulations 2025.
 2. every person to whom Part ii of the Act applies shall make the declaration of assets and liabilities in the form set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
 3. For the purposes of these regulations, the details of assets, liabilities, income, expenditure and interests directly or 
beneficially	owned	in	or	outside	Sri	Lanka	shall	be	provided	as	required	and	specified	in	the	form	set	out	in	the	
Schedule hereto.
 4. in these regulations, “Act” means the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

i fldgi ( ^i& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part i : Sec. (i) - GAZeTTe eXTRAoRDiNARY oF THe DeMoCRATiC SoCiALiST RePUBLiC oF SRi LANKA - 20.03.2025
2A
SCHeDULe
FoRM
Declaration of Assets and Liabilities
(under Section 82 of the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023)
 (1) Name with initials :
 (2) Type of declaration and Year (Annual/First appointment/end of tenure/post-retirement/ad hoc/election) :
 (3) Date of submission :
 (4) institution and designation :
PeRSoNAL  iNFoRMATioN  oF THe DeCLARANT
1. Personal Information of the declarant
Name in full
if you have changed your name during the previous year, please indicate 
your previous full name.
Date of birth (DD/MM/YYYY)
Gender (Female/Male/Other)
National identity Card Number (NIC No.)
Passport Number
Taxpayer	Identification	Number
Are your a dual citizenship holder? if yes, mention the Country Passport 
Number of such Country
Personal e-mail and Contact Number/s (mobile and fixed)
Official	E-mail	and	Contact	Number/s	(mobile and fixed)
Official	address
Current residential address
Permanent residential address
Notes
	 (1)	 The	Anti-Corruption	Act,	No.	9	of	2023	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	the	“Act”)	requires	designated	public	officials,	
candidates	for	public	office	and	other	persons	reffered	to	in	subsection	(1)	of	Section	80	of	the	Act	to	make	periodic	
declarations of their assets and liabilities within and outside Sri Lanka. This Declaration of Assets and Liabilities shall 
include -
 (a) the assets and liabilities of the person making the declaration (hereinafter referred to as the “declarant”);
 (b) the assets and liabilities of his spouse;
 (c) the assets and liabilities of each of his dependent children, irrespective of their age;
 (d) the assets and liabilities of any other person’s dependent on him irrespective of their age.
 (e) the assets and liabilities of any other person who cohabits and shares the common household with the person 
to whom Part ii of the Act applies for at least six months prior to the date of declaration, except where such 
person does not share mutual rights and obligations with the person to whom Part ii of the Act applies.
[Regulation 2]

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.03.2025
3A
 (2) The persons referred to in (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of the Note (1) shall, throughout this form, be referred to as the 
“covered persons”.
	 (3)	 This	Declaration	of	Assets	and	Liabilities	shall,	subject	to	the	provisions	of	the	Part	II	of	the	Act,	required	to	be	filed	
for	any	one	of	the	reasons	specified	in	the	Table	below.	Please	confirm	the	reason	by	checking	the	appropriate	box	
below.
	 (4)	 Failing	to	comply	with	the	requirements	of	Part	II	of	the	Act	including	submitting	a	relevant	Declaration	of	Assets	and	
Liabilities,	failing	to	include	all	required	assets	and	Liabilities,	or	making	a	false	statement	on	the	Declaration	of	
Assets	and	Liabilities	is	an	offence	under	Section	90	of	the	Act	and	such	asset	omitted	to	be	included	shall	be	vested	
in the State.
	 (5)	 If	you	believe	you	are	not	required	to	file	or	if	you	have	any	questions	about	what	you	are	required	to	declare,	contact	
the Commission to investigate Allegations of Bribery or Corruption.
  Tel: 0112596359; 0767011954; e-mail : assets@ciaboc.gov.lk; Website : www.ciaboc.gov.lk
2. When to make the declaration of assets liabilities
Reason for submission (check appropriate one) Date disclosure required
(i) Appointed to the public service (First appointments) Within three months of the appointment
(ii) Annually	while	serving	as	a	public	official	(Annual) 31st of March each year
(iii) Leaving public service (end of tenure) Within fourteen (14) days of leaving public service
(iv) Former	public	official	(Post-retirement) Two consecutive years following the end of tenure 
Declaration of Assets and Liabilities
(v) Candidate for President, Parliament, Provincial 
Council, or a Local Authority (election)
Upon submission of the nomination paper
(vi) Change of assets or liabilities of Ten Million Rupees or 
more (ad hoc)
Within one month
General Instructions :
 1) All dates should be reported in the format : day/month/four-digit year.
 2)  In reporting assets, indicate whether it was acquired by purchase, bequest, gift or other means. If acquired by other 
means, explain. For the value of any asset besides a publicly traded security, show the purchase price of all assets 
bought and provide a good faith estimate of the value at the time of filling for all other assets.
 3) When reporting assets held by a covered person include those held in Sri Lanka or abroad. In reporting ownership, 
include not only any asset legally titled or registered in the covered person’ s name, but any property to which the 
declarant has the benefit or use including joint ownership or possession. Examples would be an automobile the 
covered person drives a substantial amount of time or a house or apartment where the covered person stays a 
substantial amount of time.
DeTAiLS  oF  THe ASSeTS  AND  LiABiLiTieS  oF  CoveReD  PeRSoNS
1. INfORmATION  ON  COvERED  PERSONS  OThER  ThAN  ThE  DECLARANT
Last name 
and other 
names of 
the Covered 
Person
Date of 
Birth
Nationality Income Tax 
Number
National 
Identity Card 
Number 
(NIC No.)
Passport 
Number
Current 
Address
Permanent 
Address

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.03.2025
4A
2. ImmOv ABLE  PROPERTY  hELD  BY  COvERED  PERSONS
Covered 
Person
Type* Area, space 
(Ft. /acres/
perch)
Address Date of 
acquisition, 
rights acquired
(ownership, 
lease, or other 
right of use 
or enjoyment) 
Land Registry 
Number
manner of 
acquisition
(Gift, 
Purchase & 
etc.)
v alue Name of 
any co-
owner or 
other legal 
or natural 
person with 
rights to 
property
	 *		(1)	Land	Plot;	(2)	Residential	Building;	(3)	Apartment;	(4)	Office;	(5)	Commercial	Building;	(6)	Garage	;	(7)	Warehouse;	
(8) other (specify).
 3.  mOv ABLE  PROPERTY
  To be declared: movable property, the value of which exceeds Five Hundred Thousand Rupees (Rs. 500,000.00).
  Movable property means any material item that can be moved without damaging them including safe deposit vaults 
(Identification	Number).
  The following properties shall not be declared in this Section of the declaration :-
	 	 Securities;	Corporate	Rights;	Cash:	Money	in	bank	and	other	financial	institutions	accounts;	precious	(bank)	metals	
and gifts in the form of money.
Covered
person
Type Weight 
and/or 
quantity Characteristics
Date of 
acquisition	
and the 
manner of 
acquisition
v alue
Information on 
co-owners (if the 
property is co-
owned)
Include % of 
ownership for each 
co-owner Natural 
person or legal 
person
Information on 
the owner of the 
property (if it is 
acquired	under	the	
right of possession 
or use) (Natural 
person or legal 
person)
Type of 
right
Trademark 
or name of 
manufacturer
 
	 *		(1)	Antiques;	(2)	Art;	(3)	Gold,	Silver,	Platinum	or	any	other	precious	metals;	(4)	Watches;	(5)	Other	pieces	of	jewellery	
(specify); (6) Collections of stamps; (7) Coins and (8) Gems, Diamonds or any other precious stones shall be declared 
in this Section if the value exceeds Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand Rupees (Rs. 250,000.00).

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.03.2025
5A
 4. movable property - v ehicles
  To be declared: v ehicles and other self-propelled machines and mechanisms regardless of the value.
Covered
person
Type* Type of 
right
make and 
model
(trademark)
Engine’s 
cylinder 
capacity 
(cc)
Year of 
production
Identification 
number (if 
applicable
manner of 
acquisition
v alue Information 
on co-owners 
(if the 
property is 
co-owned)
(Include % 
of ownership 
for each co-
owner, Natural 
person or legal 
person)
Information 
on the 
owner of the 
property (if 
it	is	acquired	
under the right 
of possession 
or use) (Natural 
person or legal 
person)
 *  (1) Motor Cycles; (2) Motor Tricycles; (3) Motor Cars; (4) Dual Purpose v ehicles; (5) Land v ehicles; (6) Motor Lorries 
(7) Buses; (8) Trailers and Bowsers (9) Special Purpose v ehicle; (10) Lorry Trailers; (11) Prime Movers; (12) 
Ambulances; (13) Quadricycle; (14) Tractors; (15) Hearses; (16) other Special Purpose v ehicle; (17) Motor Home; 
(18) Agricultural Machine; (19) Water v ehicle; (20) Air v ehicle; (21) others (Specify).
5. SECuRITIES
Covered 
Person
Type* Type of 
right
The issuer of 
the security 
Natural 
person or 
legal person
Date of 
acquisition and 
the manner of 
acquisition
v alue 
(for publicly traded 
securities closing 
price on the day 
before	filing;	for	
nontraded purchased 
securities price paid; 
for	a	bequest,	gift,	
or other good faith 
estimate at time of 
filing)
Quantity of 
the securities
Information 
about the 
person to whom 
securities were 
transferred to 
management 
Natural person or 
legal person 
	 *	 A	security	is	a	fungible	financial	instrument	used	to	raise	capital	in	public	and	private	markets.	Examples	include;	(1)	
Stocks; (2) Debt securities; (3) Corporate bonds; (3) Central Bank Bonds; (4) Treasury Bonds; (5) Tax reserve 
certificates;	(6)	Obligations;	(7)	Saving	(deposit)	certificates;	(9)	Promissory	notes;	(10)	Bonds	of	international	financial	
organizations; (11) Foreign government bonds; (12) Bonds of the Natural Persons’ Bank Deposits Guarantee Fund; 
(13)	Cheques;	(14)	Investment	certificates;	(15)	Mortgage	securities;	(16)	Mortgage	bonds;	(17)	Mortgage	certificates;	
(18) Mortgage guarantee; (19) Derivatives; (20) Privatization securities (vouchers, etc.); (21) Documents of title to the 
goods; (22) other type (Specify).

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.03.2025
6A
6. CORPORATE   RIGhTS
  To	be	declared	:	any	equity	rights	other	than	the	securities	mentioned	in	table	under	heading	“5.	SeCURiTieS ” 
including	interests	in	limited	or	general	partnerships	or	any	other	equivalent	of	statutory	capital	of	legal	entities	
registered in Sri Lanka or abroad including shares in credit unions.
Covered 
Person
Name of entity, 
equity rights in 
which belong 
to the covered 
person
Country of 
registration 
of the main 
office of the 
entity
The 
organizational 
and legal form of 
the entity
Details of 
registration
Type of 
right
Share in the capital or its the 
equivalent of the legal person
in monetary terms 
(value)
in percent 
(%)
overall Acquired	
during the 
previous 
year
7. INTANGIBLE   ASSETS   AND   LICENSES
  intangible assets include intellectual Property Rights (rights to invention, useful model, know-how, industrial Design 
or Plant’s v ariety, Trdemark or Trade Name, Copyrights, Patents etc.), right to use subsoil and other natural resources 
or any other (Specify).
Covered 
Person
Type [intellectual 
property Rights 
(the	specific	type)/
Right to use subsoil 
and other natural 
resources/other 
(indicate which 
one)
Description of the object 
of the right (according to 
the official document that 
certifies the right to the 
asset - if applicable; indicate 
series and number of that 
official document)
Type of 
right
Date Acquired The 
manner of 
acquisition
v alue
8. INCOmE
8.1 Income other than the gifts
Covered 
person
Type of income* Type of right Source of income Natural 
person or legal person
The amount earned 
during the previous 
calendar year
	 *	 Income	means	assessable	income	specified	in	sections	4,	5,	6,	7	and	8	of	the	Inland	Revenue	Act,	No.	24	of	2017	and	
includes, by way of  illustration but not limitation, (1) Salary (monetary allowance including incentives and 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.03.2025
7A
compensatory payments; (2) Honoraria or other payments according to Contracts; (3) income from entrepreneurial 
activity; (4) income from independent professonal activity (Specify); (5) income from the sale of real estate;  
(6) income from the sale of movable property (other than the securities); (7) income from leasing property; (8) 
Dividends; (9) interest; (10) Royalties; (11) insurance payment; (12) Charitable aid; (13) Pension; (14) inheritance; 
(15)	Income	from	the	sale	of	securities	and	equity	rights	(Specify	the	type);	(16)	Income-sponsored	travel	and	services;	
(18) Proceeds from vehicle permits; (19) Scholarships; (20) other income (Specify); (21) Contracts with public entities.
8.2 Gifts including travel reimbursements
  List any gift including travel reimbursement of a covered person received exceeding Fifty Thousand Rupees  
(Rs. 50,000.00) in total from a single source in the previous year from any person or corporation but not from any 
immediate family members: even if reported above.
Recipient Description of gift Date received From whom Good faith estimates of 
value
9. mONETARY  ASSETS
Covered 
person
Type * Type of right Amount Currency Entity in which relevant 
account is opened or 
where deposits are made 
A person registered in Sri 
Lanka or foreign entity
Person/entity 
to whom/which 
funds were lent
 * (1) Cash; (2) Digital Currency; (3) Funds in bank accounts (Mention the Account Number); (4) Contributions to credit 
unions	and	other	non-bank	financial	institutions	including	mutual	investment	institutes	(indicate	the	type	of	institution	
and the Account Number); (5) Funds lent to third persons; (6) Assets in the form of precious metals; (7) others 
(Specify).
10. fINANCIAL  OBLIGATIONS
  Report if the value of the obligation exceeds Five Hundred Thousand Rupees (Rs. 500,000.00) in total.
Item Covered 
person
*Type Amount Currency Person 
in whose 
favour the 
obligation 
arose 
Natural 
person 
or Legal 
person
Date 
when the 
obligation 
arose
Due date Information on 
the guarantor 
of the obligation 
(if the obligation 
is secured by 
guarantee)

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.03.2025
8A
 * (1) Credits received; (2) Loans received; (3) obligations under leasing contracts; (4) Amount of money paid towards 
the principal amount of the promissory (credit) sum; (5) Amount of money paid towards interest on the loan  
(credit)/obligations under insurance contract; (6) obligation under non-state pension provision contract; (7) Money 
lent to the declarant; (8) Money lent to the covered persons other than the declarant; (9) outstanding tax debt; (10) 
others (Specify).
11.   OThER  TRANSACTIONS  ( NOT  COvERED  IN  ThE  PREvIOuS  TABLES  uNDER  PREvIOuS  
hEADINGS )
Covered Person Type of transaction* The object of 
transaction**
Information on the 
counterparty of the 
transaction
 * The transaction resulted in obtaining by the covered person of the right of ownership (including joint ownership); 
possession	or	use/ceasing	of	the	covered	person’s	right	of	ownership,	possession	or	use/financial	obligation	of	the	
covered person (specify what exactly).
 ** (1) Real estate; (2) Land plot; (3) Residential Building; (4) Apartment; (5) Commercial Building; (6) Garage; (7) other 
property (indicate which one); (8) Movable property; (9) v ehicle; (10) Securities; (11) Monetary Assets; (12) Jewellery; 
(13) Personal and Home electronics; (14) Clothes; (15) Livestock (16) Gold, Silver, Platinum or any other precious 
metals;	(17)	Antiques;	(18)	Art;	(19)	Other	property	(Specify);	(20)	Intangible	Assets	(Specify);	(21)	Travel	(Aggregate	
amount of all family members); (22) education (Private Schools or University); (23) entertainment.
12.   COvERED  PERSON ’ S   POSITIONS   OR    mEmBERShIP    IN    PuBLIC    OR   PRIv ATE    ORGANIzATIONS  
AND  ThEIR  GOvERNING  BODIES
  To be declared : participation of the covered person as a member in managing, auditing or supervisory bodies of civic 
associations, charities, self-regulatory or self-governing professional associations and membership in such associations 
(organizations).
	 	 The	following	information	shall	be	indicated	if	the	covered	person	occupied	a	specified	position	or	was	a	member	of	
the organization during the reporting period for any duration.
Covered person Name of the 
organization/body
Legal and organizational 
form*
Details of registration
 * (1) Civic association; (2) Charity; (3) Self-regulatory or Self-governing Professional Association; (4) Trusts and 
Foundations; (5) A Private or State-owned enterprise; (6) General or Limited Partnerships; (7) Any other types of legal 
persons (Specify).
13. TRuSTS
  Does any person or entity hold any asset or assets for a covered person in a trust or similar legal entity or contractual 
arrangement? if so, provide a copy of all documents establishing the trust or other entity or contractual relationship and 
where the document does state the following information, list it below:

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'03'20
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 20.03.2025
9A
Trustee name/
contact 
Information
Assets Settlor name/
contact details
Names of all 
beneficiaries
Names of trust 
protector(s), 
enforcer (S), or 
other third party 
with power over 
trustee
Applicable law
  Does any covered person hold any property in trust for any other person? if so, provide the same information called for 
in above.
OATh/AffIRmATION
  i, ...................................................................................... do, hereby, solemnly, sincerely and truly, declare and  
affirm/swear	that	the	answers	given	and	the	statements	made	by	me	herein	are	true	and	accurate	and	this	declaration	of	
assets and liabilities is made truthfully, without any pressure or coercion from any party. if in the future there is any 
change (increase or decrease) within any Asset or liability which is held by any covered person it will mandatorily be 
declared.
	 	 							 I	am	fully	aware	of	the	legal	consequence	of	the	discovery	of	any	undeclared	assets	and/or	false	declaration.	 
Sworn/affirmed	 to	 at	 ................................................	 on	 this	 .......................	 day	 of	 .......................................	 
20 ............................... before me.
Commissioner of oaths/Justice of the Peace.
EXPLANATORY  NOTES
	(1)	 If	any	of	the	columns	in	this	form	are	insufficient	for	the	particulars	required,	such	particulars	may	be	given	in	a	
separate Schedule or Schedules provided that appropriate reference is made to any such accompanying schedules in the 
return. Such Schedules shall also be signed by you.
 (2) if in any section of this form, there are no items to be recorded, please write “ NONE ” in the appropriate space.
	(3)	 For	the	puposes	of	any	further	clarification,	please	refer	to	Part	II	of	the	Anti-Corruption	Act,	No.	9	of	2023.
eoG 03 - 0181
PRiNTeD AT THe DePARTMeNT oF GoveRNMeNT PRiNTiNG,  SRi LANKA.