

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
————————
Presented by the Hon. Buddhika Pathirana, M. P.
 for Matara District on 04th of August 2021
(Published in the Gazette on July 26, 2021)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
SAMADHI COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
BILL
to incorporate the Samadhi Community Development Foundation
Price : Rs. 12.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
This Bill can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
[Bill No. 65]
A

<!-- page 2 -->

1Samadhi Community Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
General
objects of the
Corporation
25
30
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAMADHI COMMUNITY
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
WHEREAS an Foundation called and known as the
“Samadhi Community Development Foundation” has been
established in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as Follows :—
1. This act may be cited as the Samadhi Community
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.  of 2021.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of the
Samadhi Community Development Foundation (hereinafter
referred to as “the Foundation”) or shall hereafter be admitted
members of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”)
with perpetual succession under the name and style of the
“Samadhi Community Development Foundation”, and by
that name may sue and be sued in all courts, with full power
and authority to have and use a common seal and to alter the
same at its pleasure.
3. The general, objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to organize maintain and uplift the educational
activities and pre training programmes for the poor
children and young those who have no educational
facilities;
Preamble
Incorporation
of the
Samadhi
community
Development
Foundation
Short title

<!-- page 3 -->

Samadhi Community Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
2
5
10
15
20
25
30
(b) to utilize the youth labour for the welfare of the
general public;
(c) to encourage the farmers and establish young
farmers organisations;
(d) to grant opportunities for training in pre-vocational
education, in the fields of sports, computer training,
massmedia, leadership, learning of Tamil, English
and other Languages;
(e) to conduct lectures, seminars, exhibitions and to
organise educational propaganda activities;
(f) to establish library facilities;
(g) to preservation of environment and comparative
development ; and
(h) to do all such other acts, matters and things as are
incidental or conductive to the attainment of the
objectives of the corporation.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to enter into all contracts directly or through a
representative as may be necessary, to borrow or raise money
with or without security, to receive or collect grants and
donations and payment of interests thereto, to invest its fund
in local, foreign investments with the view of raising funds
of the Corporation, to engage, employ and dismiss officers
and servants required for the carrying out of the objects of
the Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation

<!-- page 4 -->

3Samadhi Community Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
5. (1) The management of the affairs of the Corporation
shall be subject to the rules of the Corporation, be
administered by an Executive Council (hereinafter reffered
to as the “Council”) consisting of not more than six office
bearers inclusive of the Chairman/Managing Director,
Secretary, Treasurer and such number of members as may be
provided or in rules and elected in accordance therewith.
(2) The first Executive Council of the Corporation shall be
the Executive Council of the Foundation holding office on
the day preceding the date of the Commencement of this Act.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time
to time at a general meeting and by majority of not less than
two-third of the members present and voting to make rules,
not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any other
written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the election, appointment or nomination of the
members of the Board of Management and their
powers and duties and terms of office;
(b) the powers, conduct of duties and functions of
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(c) the procedure to be observed at the, summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation and of
the Committee of Management, the time place,
notice and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
therefore and the conduct of business thereat;
(d) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership of Committee of Management and of
the Corporation;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation the custody of its funds and
maintenance and audit of the account; and
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation
Rules of the
Corporation

<!-- page 5 -->

Samadhi Community Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
4
5
10
15
20
25
30
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made under subsection (1) may it a like
meeting and in like  manner to or rescinded be amended,
altered, added.
(3) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
immediately  preceding the date of commencement of the
Act shall insofar, as they are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act, or any other written law, be deemed
to be rules made under this section.
(4) all members of the Corporation shall be subject to
the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation on the day
preceding the date of commencement of this Act shall be
paid to the Corporation hereby constituted and all debts
due to and subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purpose of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act with full power to sell, mortgage, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of them.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such number
of office bearers as may be provided for in the rules of the
Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument in
token of their presence and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable
Seal of the
Corporation

<!-- page 6 -->

5Samadhi Community Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body corporate or
any other person except such as are mentioned in this Act
and those claiming by, from, or under them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
5

<!-- page 7 -->

Samadhi Community Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
6
DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING