

<!-- page 1 -->

1131 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
1131
¡â¤ 1, 465 _ 2006 ÌæÀà”æ´Ú 29 Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2006.09.29
No. 1,465 – FRIDAY,  SEPTEMBER  29,  2006
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1134
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1137
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 5th October, 2006, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 22nd September, 2006.
L
AKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2006.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
N.B.—  Part IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,464 of 221.09.2006 was not published.
Note.–
(i) Premadasa Hegoda Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 08th September, 2006.
(ii)Maligawatta Janaza and Welfare Society (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II  of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 08th September, 2006.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
1132
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made
from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire
a working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1
proficiency Test in one of the Official languages within one year;
Grade II Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency
Test (where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage
if the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have
already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads
of  their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from
Public officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the
Public  Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications
should  state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take
up the new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in
the Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1
of 25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

1133 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
Rules And Instructions For Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations
:—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification  from  one  subject  or  from  the whole examination
;
(iii)Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for practical and oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination hall other than a
member of the Examination hall staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the index number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. If should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination hall. Should the Supervisor so requires each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed
to leave the Examination hall even for a brief period during the course
of the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at
the Examination hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of
each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination
hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be
sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to
produce identification documents at the Examination hall, his candidature
is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such
documents into the Examination hall, it should be brought to the notice
of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them
before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination hall should be used for
answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on
the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be
used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink,
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils,
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your index number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi)You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
Depart. of Examinations, Commissioner General of Examinations.
Pelawatta,
Battaramulla.
B 4 – B 079357

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
1134
Posts - Vacant
POST OF BIO MEDICAL ENGINEER
MINISTRY OF HEALTHCARE AND NUTRITION
APPLICATIONS are invited  for the post of Bio Medical Engineer
in the Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition. Applications
prepared as per form of specimen should be sent under registered
cover to reach the Secretary, Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
No.385 Ven. Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10 on or before 30.10.2006. The words “Post of Bio
Medical  Engineer in  the Ministry of Health” should be written on
the top  left hand corner at the envelope enclosing applications.
02. Annual salary scale : Rs.22,935,—10 x 645 - 8 x 790 - 17 x
1050 - 53,555 (SL - 01-2006) (In terms of public Administration
Circular No.06/2006)
03. Age Limit : Should be not less than 21 and not more than
35 years of age. (The maximum age limit will not apply for those
who are already in the public service)
Education and other qualifications
(01) For the post of Electronic Engineer :-
(a) Passed Parts I,  II and III of the Institute of Basic Engineering
London) together with an electronic subject of the Part III
Examination
 or
(b) Posses an Engineering Degree from a recognized University
together with an electronic subject.
or
(c) Graduate ship of the Institute of Electronic and
Telecommunication
or
(d) Associate Membership of the Institute of Electronic and
Telecommunication Engineering or Membership (MIERE)
or Fellowship (FIERE) of the Institute of Electronic and
Telecommunication Engineering.
(02) For the post of Electrical Engineer
(a) Passed Parts I, II and III of the Institute of Electrical
Engineering (London) together with subject of advanced
Electrical Engineering and Aplied  Electronic Egineering
Scheme of the Part III Examination ;
or
(b) Passed Part I, II and III of the examination for Electrical
Engineering of the Institute of Sri Lanka Engineering together
with the subjects of the direct Electric Current of teh Part III
Examination ;
 or
(c) B.Sc (Engineering) Degree or from a recognial University
together with the subjects of direct Electric current ;
or
(d) Membership/Fellowship of (MIEE/FIEE)  Institute of
Electrical Engineering (London) or Membership  Fellowship
of the Institute of Electrical Engineering  (Sri Lanka).
03. For the Post of Mechanical Engineer :-
(a) Passed Part I and II of the Institute of Engineering (London)
or
(b) Passed Part I and II of the examination for mechanical
Engineering of the Institute of Engineering Sri Lanka
(c) Posses Graduateship of the Institute of Mechanical
Engineering (London)
or
(d) B. Sc. Engineering Degree on Mechanical Engineering
or
(e) Membership/Felllowship of (MIME/FIME) of the Institute
of Mechanical Engineering (London) or Membership of
Fellowship (MIE/FIE) of the Institute of Engineering (Sri
Lanka)
05. Method of Recruitment :
Recruitment will be made by Publication of a notice and holding
an Interview by a formal interview Board appointed for this purpose.
06. Terms of Engagement :-
The post is permanent and selected officer is entitled to pension
under contributory pension scheme.
Exception :-
Provided an officer holding a pensionable post prior to 01.01.2003
is selected to the post he/she is further entitled to a pension under
the pension minute and he/she would be required to contribute to the
widows/widower’s and orphans pension fund.
(07) Service Conditions :-
Section from 10-12 in chapter 11 of the Establishments Code will
apply;
Applicants who are already in the Public Service should submit
their applications through the relevant Heads of Department.
(08) Applications will not be acknowledged. Applications which
do not conform in every manner to the requirement of this letter will
be rejected.
By order of the Public Service  commission.
(R
ANJITH  MALIGASPE ),
Secretary,
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition.
15th September, 2006.
Ministry of Healthcare and Nutrition,
“Suwasiripaya”
385, Ven Baddegama Wimalawansa Thero Mawatha,
Colombo 10.

<!-- page 5 -->

1135 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION
POST OF BIO MEDICAL ENGINEER
MINISTRY OF HELTHCARE AND NUTRITION
01. (a) Name with initials :———.
(b) Names denoted by initials :———.
02. Address :———.
(a) Permanent :———.
(b) Official :———.
(Officers in the Government Service/Provincial Public Service/
Corporation should write their official address and any change of
address should be informed forthwith)
03. (a) Date of Birth :———.
(b) Age as at the closing date of applications :———.
Years :——.months :——. Days :——.
04. Sex :———.
05. Whether married or single :———.
06. Educational Qualifications  :———.
07. Service particulars :———.
Post Institution Date of Permanent/Temporary
Appointment
I do hereby certify that the informations furnished by me in this
application are true and correct. I am also aware that if any information
furnished by me in this application was found false are incorrect
after appointment,  I am liable to be disqualified and dismissed from
the post without any compensation.
..............................
Signature of Applicant
Date :———.
05. Recommendation of Head of Department
...................................
Signature of Head of
 Department and Designation
Date :
09-891
JUDICIAL  SERVICE  COMMISSION
Recruitment for the Post of Quazis
APPLICATIONS are invited under the Muslim Marriage and Divorce
act (Chapter 115) for the recruitment of quazis for the areas described
in the following schedule.
Persons with following qualifications may apply.
An Attorney-at-Law or graduate of a recognized university or a
Moulavi from any the institution recognized by the Ministry in
charge of the Muslim Religions and Cultural Affairs or a holder of
the Al Alim Certificate issued by the Department of Education or
holder of other suitable professional qualifications or retired principals
of Government Schools.
Applicants should be married male persons of over 40 years of
age and of good character and good social standing in the community
possessing a sound knowledge of the law relating to Muslim Marriage
and Divorce.
The selected candidate will be appointed for a period which will
be specified in the letter of appointment.
It is a legal requirement that a Quazi should reside in the area for
which he is appointed.
Applications forms obtainable from this Office, should be sent
to reach me on or before 31st October, 2006.
P. W. D. C. J
AYATHILAKE ,
Secretary,
Judicial Service Commission..
Office of the Judicial Service Commission,
P.O. Box 573,
Hultsdorp,
Colombo 12,
14th September, 2006.
SCHEDULE
   01. Avissawella Judicial Division of Avissawella
02. Anuradhapura Revenue Division of Nuwaragam, Hurulu
and Thalagam in Anuradhapura  District
03. Akkarapattu A. G. A. Division of Akkarapattu in
Ampara District
04. Colombo South Slave Island, Cinnamon Garden,
Kollupitiya, Bambalapitiya, Havelock
Town,
Narahenpita, Wellawatta and Kirulapona
in the Judicial division of Colombo
05. Eravur Pattu Revenue Division of Eravur Pattu in
Batticaloa District

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
1136
06. Galle Judicial Division of Galle
07. Gamapaha Judicial Division of Gampaha
08. Hambantota Judicial Division of Hambantota
09. Irakkamam V aripathnchenai, Oddipuram,
Ameeralipuram, Unit 10A, Unit 11 A,
Nallawanthimalai, and Irakkamam
Gramsevak Division Nos. 01 to 09 in the
Judicial division of Akkaraipattu.
10. Kaluthara Judicial Division of Kaluthara
11. Karaiwahupattu
*(North) Divisional Secretary Division of
Kalmuani in Ampara District
12. Kurunegala Judicial Division of Kurunegala
13. Kegalle Judicial Division of Kegalle
14. Monaragala Judicial District of Monaragala
15. Nawalapitiya Revenue Division of Udabulathgamuwa
in Kandy District and Hapugasthalawa
Village in Nuwara Eliya District
16. Oddamawadi Koralai Pattu West (Oddamawadi) in
Batticaloa District.
17 Pahatha -HewahetaBirth Marrige and Death Registration
Division of Pahatha - Hewahata in Kandy
District
18. Polonnaruwa Judicial Division of Polonnaruwa
19. Pulmudai Revenue Division of Kattukulampttu
East and West in Trincomalee District
20. Puttalam and
 Chillaw Judicial Division of Puttalam and Chilaw
(except Divisional Secretary Division  of
Kalpitiya area)
21. Poojapitiya and
 Harispattuwa Divisional Secretary Divisions of
Poojapitiya and Harispattuwa in Kandy
District
22. Ratnapura Judicial District of Ratnapura
23. Sammanthurai Sammanthurai Pradeshiyasaba No.01 and
02, Malkampiti, Nainakadu,  Malwatta,
Navinthanveli, and Annaivilai area in
Ampara District
24. Tangalle Jud icial Division of Tangalle
25. Thambalagamam
and Kanthale Divisional Secretary Divisions of
Thambalagamam and Kanthale in
Trincomalee District
26. Thunpane Divisional Secretary Division of Thupane
in Kandy District
09-922
(Kalmunai)
MINISTRY FOR THE PROMOTION OF
BOTANICAL AND ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS
POST OF RECEPTIONIST
APPLICATIONS are called for vacancies in the permanent cadre in
the post of Receptionist, Ministry for the promotion of Botanical
and Zoological Gardens.
The closing date for applications is 18.10.2006 and further
particulars and application forms could be obtain from the
Administration Branch  of the Ministry for the Promotion of
Botanical and Zoological Gardens.
01. The Post : Receptionist
02. Age Limit : Candidates should be not less than 18 years and
not more than 45   years of age as at the closing date of applications.
(This age limit will not apply to those who hold posts in the Public
Service).
03. Nature of duties :
* Courteously receiving the patrons visiting the Ministry for
the Promotion of Botanical and Zoological Gardens,
addressing them and directing them to the relevant officers
according to their needs.
* Clearly answering inquiries made in regard to the Ministry
and thereby render courteous and efficient service, operate
and maintain the telephone switchboard in the Reception
Counter and maintaining the relevant telephone directories.
04. Educational Qualifications :
Should have passed the G.C.E (O.L.) Examination in six (6)
subjects in not more than with credit passes for at least four (4)
subjects including credit passes for Sinahala/Tamil Language or
Literature, artithmetic/Commercial Arithmetic/Pure Mathematics/
Elementary Mathematics and English. (Passes  in five subjects in
one sitting are required).
or
Should have passed G.C.E. (O.L.) Examination in six (6) subjects
in not more than two sittings with credit passes four (4) subjects
including credit passes for Sinahala/Tamil Langguage, Mathematics
and English. (Passes in five subjects in one sitting are required).
or
Should have passed the National Certificate in General Education
Examination in six (6) subjects with “A” or “B” Grade passes for

<!-- page 7 -->

1137 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
four (4) subjects including and High Fluency in English is reqired.
If Tamil is not the medium of examination of the candidate a working
knowledge  in Tamil would be considered as an additional qualification.
Aptitude of the candidate would be tested at an interview.
05. Professional and other qualifications :
Two years’ experience in the relevant field in a state or recognized
institution (Should be authenticated with relevant certificates).
06. Salary Group and Scale :
Salary Scale for Grade III :
MN-1-2006 (12,920 - 14x120-4x40—15,160).
07. Efficiency Bar :
The selected officer should pass the first efficiency bar within
03 years from the date of appointment.
(a) An examination will be held to test the knowledge on the
Establishment Code and Financial Regulations.
(b) Proficiency in the Second Official Language :
Officers who have passed the G. C. E. (O.L.) Examination
in Sinhala, Tamil, English media respectively  should pass a
secondary proficiency test in Tamil, Sinhala and Sinhala or
Tamil language respectively. A pass in G.C.E (O. L.) is
sufficient as proficiency in  the second official language.
Note: A pass in the Efficiency Bar Examination is essential
and nobody is entitled to exemption due to completion of
45 years of age.
08. (a) This post is permanent and you are entitled to a contributory
Pension under the Contributory Pensions  Fund.
(b) The provisions in sections 10 -12 in Chapter 11 of the
Establishment Code are applicable.
S. L
IY ANAGAMA ,
Secretary,
Ministry for Promotion of Botanical and Zoological Gardens,
No. 82, Sampathpaya,
Rajamalwatte Road,
Battaramulla.
09-923
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Admission of Teachers in Government and
Government approved Private Schools to Universities
in Sri Lanka for the Acadamic Year 2006/2007
APPLICATIONS are entertained from teachers in government and
Government approved Private  Schools, who have passed the General
Science/Arts (with English as a subject) qualifying (External)
Examination to study the following courses in universities in Sri
Lanka during the academic year 2006/2007.
(i) Arts Degree Course with English as a subject
(ii)Science Degree Course
02. For this purpose, the applicants, should possess the
qualifications as follows :
(i) Should have passed the General Science/Arts (with English
as a subject) qualifying (External) Examination held in or
after year 2002 (A copy of the result sheet should be attached
to the application)
(ii)Should have completed five years service as a teacher  on the
last date of receiving applications and should be confirmed
in the post.
(iii)Should not have been registered to follow courses in a
Teachers College, a College of Education, a University or in
the National Institute of Education.
(iv) Selection for admission will be based on the total number of
marks obtained in the General Arts Qualifying Examination
(External) or General Science Qualifying Examination
(External) and the marks obtained for the relevant subject.
In addition to this, the applicants, qualified for General
science degree will be subjected to an oral test conducted by
the relevant university and the applicants qualified for Arts
degree will be interviewed by the University Grants
Commission.
(v) Only teachers who are entitled to study leave should forward
their applications, as study leave has to be granted to them
if they are selected to follow the course.
03. Claims for approval of full pay study leave will be examined
at the interview.
04. The Ministry is not bound with the responsibility to provide
graduate teaching appointments after the award of the Degrees.
05. In the case of applications forwarded by teachers in govern-
ment approved private schools, the Principal/Manager of the school
should state therein whether full pay study leave for the relevant
teacher could be allowed/not allowed.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
1138
06. All applications should be prepared in accordance with the
specimen form appearing herewith and forward them in duplicate
under registered post to the address given hereunder to reach before
16.10.2006.
07. The words “Applications for Admission to Universities
in Sri Lanka 2006/2007 should be clearly written on the left hand
top corner of the envelope enclosing the application. Applications
of teachers in Government Schools should be certified by
the Principal, Zonal Director and the Provincial Director of
Education and those of teachers in government approved private
schools by the Principal/Manager of the relevant schools.
A
RIYARATNE   HEWAG e,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Human Resource Development Branch,
Ministry of Education,
“Isurupaya”,
Battaramulla.
S
PECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Application for admission to...................... University to follow
a course in .............during the academic Y ear 2006/2007
1. (i) Name in full :———.
(ii)Name with initials :———.
2. Sex :———.
3. Post Held (Service Class/Grade) :———.
4. Private Address :———.
5. Official Address :———.
6. Present Place of work :———.
(i) School :———.
(ii)District  :———.
(iii)Province :———.
7. (i) Date of first appointment :———.
(ii)Date of confirmation :———.
8. Teacher Registration Number :———.
9. (i) Date of Brith :———.
Year :———. Month :———. Date :———.
(ii)Age on 16.10.2006  :———.
Years :———. Months :———. Days :———.
10. Year of passing the Qualifying Examination and Subjects
(a copy of the Result Sheet should be attached)
(i) Year :———.
(ii)Subjects 1............... 2.................
3.................
11. Name of the course and subjects to be followed :
(i) Name of the Course :
(ii)Subjects 1............... 2.................
3.................
12. Name of the University expected for admission :
13. Whether already registered to follow another course in a Teach-
ers’ College? College of Education, University or National
Institute of Education :
If so details :
I certify that the above details are true and correct
....................
Signature  of Applicant.
Date :
I certity that the above teacher is serving in...... school with effect
from ..... and his/her last salary was paid from this school. He/she
can be released to follow the abvoe course.
I recommend/ do not recommend the approval of study leave
required by the applicant. (Please give reasons if study leave is not
recommended.)
.........................
Principal/Manager
Signature and Seal
Date :———.
Address :———.
Recommended/Not recommended
.................
Zonal Director
Signature and Seal
Date :———.
Address :———.
Recommended/not recommended
....................
Provincial Director of Education
Signature and Seal.
Date :———.
Address :———.
09-821

<!-- page 9 -->

1139 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2006.09.29
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 29.09.2006
MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS
Competitive Examination for Recruitment to  Grade II of
Grama Niladhari Service- 2006
FOLLOWING revisions are hereby made to the notification Section
IIA, Part I of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka No.1461 dated 01.09.2006, calling applications for the
above examination.
1. Schedule I indicated in the Tamil translation of the previous
notification should be revised as Schedule II. Further, the Divisional
Secretary’s Divisions where the posts of Grama Niladharies have
fallen vacant and the numbers of the same will be included as
Schedule I.
2. Following revisions will be made in the Sinhala and English
versions of Schedule, I While removing the Divisional Secretary’s
Divisions and numbers; namely —
Eheliyagoda 273
Walikamam East (Kopai) 640
Walikamam South (Uduwil) 638
Kachchaduwa 412
Mulathivu 572
Following Divisional Secretary’s Divisions and numbers will be
included in the notification :
Lunugala 226
Welioya 413
Oddusudan 576
At the meantime, revisions will be made in respect of Divisional
Secretary’s Division in the following manner :
Digamadulla 426 as Dimbulagala 426
Vadamarachchi East 644 as Maruthankerni 644
Nugegoda 9 as Sri Jayawardanepura
 Kotte 9
Maharagama 9 as Maharagama 8
Rasnayakapura 456 as Rasnayakapura 455
Kandy Kadawath 332 as Kandy Kadawath 331
Sathara Sathara
3. Following revisions will be made in respect of Divisional
Secretary’s Division only in the Sinhala version of Schedule I :
Siyambalapitiya 185 as Siyambalanduwa 185
Yatatinuwara 344 as Yatinuwara 344
Walikamam East 637 as Walikamam East 637
(Chunnai) (Chankanai)
4. Further the closing date of application  indicated in Paragraph
6.0 of the Gazette dated 01.09.2006 will be extended up to 20.10.2006
so as to grant opportunity for making applications prepared accord-
ing to the revisions.
B. G. K
ARUNARA THNE ,
Secretary,
Ministry of Home Affairs.
Ministry of Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
15th September, 2006.
09-924
OPEN / LIMITED  COMPETITIVE   EXAMINATION   FOR
RECRUITMENT  TO  CLASS  II  GRADE  II  OF  THE  SRI
LANKA  ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE – 2006
THE following amendment is made for the Sub-section (ii) (a) (ii)
(Limited Competitive Examination) of the Paras 6 of the Gazette
Notification related to the above Examination published in the Gazette
No. 1458 of 11th August, 2006.
(ii) “be a person in Public Service or in the Provincial Public
Service with not less than 10 years continuous satisfactory permanent
service as at 15.09.2006 as a confirmed officer in a post with a
consolidated salary scale the initial of which is not less than
Rs. 101,880 per annum (according to Salary Code TB-2-1 of Public
Administration Circular 09/2004 of 27.12.2004)”.
Accordingly, the closing date of applications is extended up to
05th October, 2006 enabling applicants to send applications as per
the above amendment.
By order of the Public Services Commission,
S. B. D
IVARATNE ,
Deputy Secretary to the Treasury.
General Treasury,
Colombo 01,
20th September, 2006.
09-77
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA