

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of February 25, 2011
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 28. 02. 2011)
 PORTS AND AIRPORTS DEVELOPMENT LEVY
A
BILL
to make provision for the imposition and collection of a levy to be called the
Ports and Airports Development  Levy on every article originating from
outside Sri Lanka and imported into Sri Lanka; to amend Part I of the
Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002; and to provide for matters connected therewith
 or incidental thereto.
Ordered to be published by the Minister of Finance and Planning
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00

<!-- page 2 -->

1 Ports and Airports Development Levy
5
10
15
20
L.D.—O. 9/2011.
A N  ACT  TO  MAKE  PROVISION  FOR  THE  IMPOSITION  AND  COLLECTION  OF  A
LEVY  TO  BE  CALLED  THE  PORTS  AND  AIRPORTS  DEVELOPMENT   LEVY
ON  EVERY  ARTICLE  ORIGINATING  FROM  OUTSIDE  SRI LANKA  AND
IMPORTED  INTO  SRI LANKA ; TO  AMEND  PART  I OF  THE  FINANCE  ACT ,
N O . 11 OF  2002; AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO .
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Ports and Airports
Development  Levy Act, No.   of 2011.
PART I
IMPOSITION  OF  PORTS  AND  AIRPORTS  DEVELOPMENT   LEVY
2. Subject to the provisions of section 7, there shall be
charged and levied on the cost, insurance and freight value
of every article originating from outside Sri Lanka and
imported into Sri Lanka, a levy to be called the Ports and
Airports Development  Levy ( hereinafter in this Part referred
to as the “Levy”).
3. (1) The levy to be charged and levied in respect of
the cost, insurance and freight value of any article referred
to in section 2 shall be calculated, at the rate of 5.0 per
centum, for the period commencing on January 1, 2011.
(2) With effect from January 1, 2011, no levy shall be
charged in respect on the cost, insurance and freight value
of any article imported into Sri Lanka—
(a) for the purpose of processing and re-export; or
(b) to be used for the manufacture of goods for exports.
Short title.
Levy on
articles
imported into
Sri Lanka.
Manner of
calculating
the levy.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Ports and Airports Development Levy
5
10
15
20
25
30
(3) The Minister may, from time to time having regard to
the interests of the national economy, by Order published in
the Gazette—
(a) exempt from the operation of the above levy, any
article specified therein; or
(b) specify a concessionary rate to be charged and
levied in respect of any article or articles specified
therein.
(4) Every Order, made in terms of subsection (3) by the
Minister shall—
(i) be in operation immediately upon the Minister
affixing his signature thereto;
(ii) be published in the Gazette as soon as convenient;
(iii) be approved by resolution of Parliament as soon as
convenient thereafter; and
(iv) if not approved by Parliament, be deemed to be
rescinded with effect from the date of such
resolution.”.
4. (1) The following articles shall be exempt from the
Ports and Airports Development  Levy—
(i) foreign currency notes as specified under the
relevant Harmonized Commodity  Description and
coding System Numbers for the purposes of
Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) (with effect from
June 1, 2010);
(ii)goods for the use of international events conducted
in Sri Lanka, on donations from abroad, as approved
by the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance
having regard to the interests of the national
economy (with effect from May 12, 2010);
No levy to be
charged in
respect of
specified
articles.

<!-- page 4 -->

3 Ports and Airports Development Levy
5
10
15
20
25
(iii) goods for any infrastructure development project
out of the donations directly to Government
Ministries, as approved by the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance, (with effect from
September 8, 2010);
(iv) goods for any Specific project funded through
foreign loans and on which project the tax is borne
by the Government, as approved by the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance having regard to
the interests of the national economy (with effect
from January 1, 2011); and
(v) any other article which the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance may, by Order published in
the Gazette, in terms of subsection (3) of section 3,
declare as being an exempted article.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of sections 2 and 3,
the Director-General of Customs shall defer the collection
of the levy on the importation of any article, for the use of
any specified project identified by the Minister in charge of
the subject of Finance, by an Order published in the Gazette,
having regard to the interests of the national economy on
which the tax is borne by the government, with effect from
July 1, 2009 until such time the article is re-exported after
the completion of such project subject to the furnishing of a
corporate guarantee which covers the amount of the tax due
on the articles so imported.
5. The levy payable under section 2 on an article
imported into Sri Lanka, shall be paid by the person importing
the article to the Director-General of Customs, at the time of
the import of the article, and upon payment of the levy the
Director-General of Customs shall cause and endorsement
to be made on the import invoice relating to that article
specifying the amount recovered as the levy.
Levy to be
paid to the
Director-
General of
Customs.
30

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Ports and Airports Development Levy
5
10
15
20
25
6. Where any article originating from outside Sri Lanka
and imported into Sri Lanka is sold—
(a) by the Director-General of Customs for the recovery
of any customs duty, surcharge or other levy payable
or deemed to be payable under the Customs
Ordinance or for any contravention of the
provisions of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235);
(b) by the Sri Lanka Port Authority established by the
Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979, for
the recovery of any dues under that Act; or
(c) by the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue,
for any taxes administered by him,
the purchaser of that article shall be deemed for the purposes
of section 5 to be the person importing that article and the
provisions of this Act shall apply to such purchaser accordingly.
7. Nothing in section 2 shall apply to any article
imported into Sri Lanka in respect of the provision of any
service by a mission of any State or any organization under
the provisions of the Diplomatic Privileges Act, No. 9 of
1996.
8. The levy shall, for purposes of recovery of the levy
and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, be
deemed to be a customs duty payable under the Customs
Ordinance (Chapter 235), and accordingly the provisions of
the Customs Ordinance shall apply to the recovery of such
levy.
9. The Director-General of Customs shall transmit to
the Consolidated Fund, all sums recovered by him as the
levy under this Act.
Purchase of
certain
articles
deemed to be
imported for
the purpose
of this Act.
Exemptions.
Customs
Ordinance to
apply to the
recovery of
levy.
Amount
recovered as
levy to be
credited to
the
Consolidated
Fund.

<!-- page 6 -->

5 Ports and Airports Development Levy
10. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,
“article” means any goods, materials, foreign currency notes,
any agricultural or horticultural products or merchandise
but does not include diamonds, gems, gold, jewellery  and
electronic items imported for the purpose of processing and
re-export.
11. The provisions of—
(1) paragraph (i) of subsection (1) of section 4 of this
Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have come
into effect on June 1, 2010;
(2) paragraph (ii) of subsection (1) of section 4 of this
Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have come
into effect on May 12, 2010;
(3) paragraph (iii) of subsection (1) of section 4 of this
Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have come
into effect on September 8, 2010;
(4) paragraph (iv) of subsection (1) of section 4 of this
Act shall be deemed for all purposes to have come
into effect on January 1, 2010;
12. The provisions of this Act shall, be deemed for all
purposes to have come in to operation on January 1, 2011.
13. Where the Director-General of Customs collects
during the period commencing on January 1, 2011 and
ending on the date of the commencement of this Act, from a
person importing any article, an amount equal to five per
centum as specified in section 3 of this Act on the cost,
insurance and freight value of such article, such collection,
shall be deemed for all purposes  to have been, and to be,
validly made, and the Director-General of Customs is hereby
indemnified against all action, civil or criminal, in respect
of such collection.
Interpretation.
Retrospective
effect.
Operation of
the
provisions of
this Act,
Indemnity.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Ports and Airports Development Levy
14. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or
in respect of which regulations are required or authorized to
be made under this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of publication, or on later date as may be specified
therein.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be
placed before Parliament for approval. Every regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as
from the date of disapproval, but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder.
(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
PART II
A
MENDMENT  OF  PART  I OF  THE  FINANCE  ACT , NO . 11 OF  2002
15. Section 2 of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002 (Part I)
is hereby amended in the first proviso to that section, by the
repeal of paragraph (d) thereof and the substitution therefor
of the following paragraph:—
“(d) for the period commencing on January 1, 2009 and
ending on December 31, 2010 at the rate of 5.0 per
centum.”.
16. It is hereby declared for the avoidance of doubts,
that the provisions of Part I of the Finance Act, No. 11 of
2002 relating to the payment of the Ports and Airports
Development Levy shall not apply to any article originating
from outside Sri Lanka and imported into Sri Lanka
commencing on or after January 1, 2011.
17. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Regulations.
Amendment
of section 2
of Part I of
the Finance
Act, No. 11
of 2002.
Part I of the
Finance Act,
No. 11 of
2002 not to
apply.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of any
inconsistency.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 8 -->

7 Ports and Airports Development Levy
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  M AWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.