

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
ශී  ලංකා  පජාතාන්තික  සමාජවාදී   ජනරජෙය්  ගැසට්  පතය 
අති විෙශෂ   
අංක 2254/3 - 2021 ෙනොවැම්බර් මස 15 වැනි සඳුදා  - 2021.11.15 
 
No. 2254/3 –  MONDAY, NOVEMBER,  15,  2021 
EXTRAORDINARY 
 
PART I : SECTION (I)  — GENERAL 
 
 
Government Notifications 
 
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ACT, No. 14 of 2008  
 
NOTIFICATION UNDER SECTION 3(2)   
 
BY Virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 
2008, as amended, I, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation, do by this 
Notification:- 
  
 (1) A four lane elevated highway from New Kelani Bridge to Athurugiriya via Rajagiriya (hereinafter referred to 
as "the Project") has been identified as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the Strategic 
Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008, as amended (hereinafter referred to as "SDP Act"), to construct 
and operate by China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd. (CHEC) with an envisaged investment of USD 
821.6 million. The project will be implemented with 100 percent foreign funding under Design-Build-Finance
- Operate-Maintain and Handover (DBFOMH) basis a nd the CHEC NKBA Elevated  Highway (Pvt.) Limited 
(hereinafter referred to as "Project Company") w ill build, operate and maintain the project. The Project 
Construction Period is three (03) years from the effec tive date of the related Concession Agreement and the 
project operational and maintenance period is fifteen (1 5) years after the construction period (altogether 
eighteen (18) years). Upon completion of the project operational and maintenance period, the Project 
Company shall hand over the Project to the Ministry of Highways.   
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk 
 1A - G 35363  - 60 (11/2021) 
(Published by Authority) 

<!-- page 2 -->

2 A I ෙකොටස - (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.11.15 
PART I –  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2021 
 (2) CHEC, the Bidder, is registered in  China, founded in 1980, with its business headquartered in Dong Zhi Men 
Wai, Beijing, China. CHEC is an Engineering Company that specializes in infrastructure development such as 
marine engineering, roads and bridges, dredging and reclamation, railways and airports. CHEC is also the 
contractor that will carry out engineering, procurement and construction of the Project. CHEC for the purpose 
of implementation of this project will establish a speci al purpose company to be duly incorporated under the 
Laws of Sri Lanka through its parents or an affiliate 100 percent owned by CHEC. 
 
 (3) This Project is one of the largest foreign investment s in the road sector with a committed investment of USD 
821.60 million and is expected to be financed, with an equity contribution of USD 246.50 million, loan of 
USD 575.10 million, to be made during the construction period of the Project. 
 
 (4) It is declared that the Project shall be granted exemptions in terms of the SDP Act subject to the  Project 
fulfilling the following terms and conditions; 
  
  a) A minimum investment of USD 821.60 million shall be invested in the Project during the three (03) 
 years construction period commencing from the effective date set out in the related Concession 
 Agreement. 
  b) Hand over the Project to the Ministry of High ways after the construction, operation and maintenance 
 period of eighteen (18) years. 
 
 (5) The Project shall be implemented as per the speci fications agreed between the Project Company and the 
Ministry of Highways. The Ministry of Highways shall do the toll collection. 
 
 (6) For the purposes of the aforesaid Project, the exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall 
apply, in terms of the SDP Act. 
 
SCHEDULE 
1. Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 
  (a) Corporate Income Tax 
 The profit and income generated by the Project to be exempted from Corporate Income Tax under the 
 Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 during the Construction Period of three (03) years and the 
 Operation and Maintenance Period of fiftee n (15) years, after the Construction Period. 
  (b) Tax on Dividends 
   Tax on dividends for the shareholders of the Project Company in relation to the distribution of 
 dividend income shall be exempted during the Oper ation and Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years 
 and one (01) y ear thereafter. 
  (c) Tax on Payment of Interest on foreign loans,  fees to consultants, Management fees and royalty 
  The Project Company shall be  exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax (WHT) on the 
  following ; 
 i. On the interest of foreign loans taken for capital expenditure; 
 ii. On fees paid to consultants (upto forty (40) consultants in the Construction Period of three (03) 

<!-- page 3 -->

3A I ෙකොටස - (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.11.15 
PART  I : SEC. (I)– GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2021 
years and upto twenty (20) consultants in the ma intenance period of fifteen (15) years after the 
Construction Period); and 
 iii. On Management Fees and Royalty Payments (not exceeding five (05) percent of the total 
project cost during Construction Period of three (03) years and not exceeding two (02) percent 
of the total project cost during the Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years after the 
Construction  Period. 
 
 
  (d) Capital Gains Tax 
   The shareholder of the Projec t Company and the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment 
 of Capital Gains Tax during the Construction Pe riod of three (03) years and the Operation and 
 Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years after the Construction Period. 
  (e) Income Tax on Employment 
   The expatriate employees (technical and manage rial experts) of the Pr oject Company shall be 
 exempted from the payment of income tax arising from the gains and profits from employment in 
 relation to the Project, as set out below; 
 i. for a period of three (03) years from the da te of commencement of c onstruction (subject to a 
maximum number of forty (40) expatriate employees). 
 ii. for a period of fifteen (15) years after the Construction Period (subject to a maximum number of 
twenty (20) expatriate employees). 
 
2. The Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002 (VAT Act) 
All imports of project related goods as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred 
to as "BOI") and services required for the implementation of the Project, shall be exempted from the payment of 
Value Added Tax(VAT) during the Construction Period of three (03) years and the Operation and Maintenance 
Period of fifteen (15) years after the Construction Period. VAT on local purchases of project related goods as 
approved by the BOI and services required for the implementation of the Project, shall be deferred during the 
Construction Period of three (03) years and the Operation and Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years after the 
Construction Period. 
 Further, the semi-annuity service payment by the Government of Sri Lanka to the Project Company including 
 interest income receivable under the Concession Ag reement shall be exempted from the payment of VAT 
 during the Operation and Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years after the Construction Period.
  
3.  The Ports and Airports Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011  
The Project Company shall be exempted from the charge and payment of Ports and Airports Development Levy 
(PAL), on all imported project related goods as approved by the BOI (whether directly imported by the Project 
Company or sourced through any contractor (s) or sub-contractor (s) provided the goods are consigned in the 
name of the Project Company during the Construction  Period of three (03) y ears and the Operation and 
Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years or total of eighteen (18) years from the date of commencement of 
construction. 

<!-- page 4 -->

4 A I ෙකොටස - (I) ෙඡදය - ශී ලංකා පජාතාන්තික සමාජවාදී ජනරජෙය් අති විෙශෂ ගැසට් පතය - 2021.11.15 
PART I –  SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.11.2021 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA. 
4. Excise (Special Provision) Act, No.13 of 1989  
Import of project related items as approved by the BOI, by the Project Company, its contractor (s) and its sub-
contractor (s) provided the goods are consigned in the name of the Project Company shall be exempted from 
the charge and payment of Excise Duty during the Cons truction Period of three ( 03) years and the Operation 
and Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years after the Construction Period. 
  
 
5.  Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979  
  
Import of project related items as approved by the BOI by the Project Company, its contractor (s) and its sub-
contractor (s) provided the goods are consigned in the name of the Project Company shall be exempted from 
the charge and payment of CESS during the Construction Period of three (03) years and the Operation and 
Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years after the Construction Period. 
6.  Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)  
All imports of Project related items whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through any 
contractor (s) or sub-contractor (s) provided the goods are consigned in the name of the Project Company 
(other than the items listed in the Negative List published by the Ministry of Finance) as approved by the BOI, 
shall be exempted from Customs Import Duty (CID), during the Construction Period of three (03) years and 
the Operation and Maintenance Period of fifteen (15) years after the Construction Period. 
However, any importation of items in the Negative List shall be considered by the BOI where such items are 
either not wholly produced in Sri Lanka or are not available in sufficient quality, quantity and considering the 
time line for Project completion. 
Further, to expedite the implementation of the project, the same concessions shall apply for any imports related to 
clause 2 through clause 6 in the Schedule, the period between the date of signing the related Concession Agreement and 
the Effective Date. 
 
  
 M
AHINDA RAJAPAKSA, M.P., 
 Minister of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation 
  
Ministry of Economic Policies and Plan Implementation, 
15th, November, 2021. 
 
 
 
 
11-687 
 