

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
Attention is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 20th May,  2022 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 6th May, 2022.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2022.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
  
Page 
Land Settlement notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 130
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"278 - 2022 wfm%a,a ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2022'04'29                                              
No. 2,278 - FRiDAy , APRiL 29, 2022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
129 -  B 082339- 353 (04/2022)
T - 02, SANDA
Pg. 1-20/3rd
N.B.. The list of Jurors in Colombo District Jurisdiction Area in year 2022, has been Published in Part Vi of this Gazette in Sinhala, 
Tamil and English Language.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'04'29
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 29.04.2022
130
miscellaneous  land notices
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General.: 4/10/70617;  
Ref. No. of  Provincial Land Commissioner:   
N P / 2 8 / 0 4 / 0 2 / S L O / 4 3 / 1 5 7 5 .                                     
notIfIcatIon  under  state  land 
regulatIon no. 21(2)
iT is hereby noticed that Sustainable Green Energy Private 
Ltd. has requested a state land allotment in extent of 09 
acres depicted in the sketch and situated in the Village of 
Kaththarsinnakulam of No. 215 B, Kaththarsinnakulam 
Grama Niladhari division which belongs to Vavuniya 
Divisional Secretary's Division in the District of Vavuniya 
on lease under the State Lands Ordinance for Commercial 
Purpose.
02. The boundaries of the land requested are given below:-
On the North by   :  Land belongs to P. Pathmanadan;
On the East by   :  Road;
On the South by   :  kaththarsinnakulam -  
  Karuvelapuliyankulam road;
On the West by  :   Land belongs to Rathnam;
  The requested land can be granted lease for the necessary 
purpose. Therefore, the government has intended to 
lease out the land subject to other government approved 
conditions and the following conditions.
 ( a) Terms of the  lease : Thirty  years. (30) (From 
29.03.2022 to 28.03.2052)
  Annual amount of the lease : in the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year 2022 is less than Five 
Million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 2% of the market value 
of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of the 
Chief Valuer. in the instances where the valuation of 
land in the effective year of lease is more than Five 
Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the market 
value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation 
of the Chief Valuer. This amount of the lease must be 
revised in every five years and the revision shall be 
added a 20% of the amount that just preceded.
  Premium : Not levied.
 
 (b) The lessees must, within a period of one (01) year from 
the date of commencement of the lease, develop the 
said land to the satisfaction of the Divisional Secretary;
 ( c)  The lessees must not use the said land for any purpose 
what so ever other than a Commercial Purpose;
  (d) This lease shall also be subject to the other special 
conditions imposed by the Provincial Land 
Commissioner/ Divisional Secretary and other 
institutes ;
 ( e) Existing buildings must be maintained in a proper state 
of repair;
 (f) if the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
 
 ( g) No permission will be granted until expiry of 05 years 
from 29.03.2022 subleasing ;
 ( h) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse. 
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within 
06 weeks of herein Gazette publication to the effect that this 
land must not be given on lease, the land shall be leased out 
as requested.
 S. V . a. D. I
Shara M. SaMarathunga,
  A s s i s t a n t  L a n d  C o m m i s s i o n e r                                                         
 For Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura", 
 Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
22nd April, 2022.
04 - 1105
PRiNTED  AT  ThE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANKA.