

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2011
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1700$5 - 2011 wfma%,a 05 jeks wÕyrejdod - 2011'04'05
No. 1700/5  -  TUESDAY ,   APRIL  05,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT   PROJECTS   ACT,   No.  14 OF  2008
Notification under Section 3 (2)
BY  VIRTUE of the powers vested  in  me in terms of  Section 3 (2) of  the Strategic  Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008,
I,  Basil  Rohana Rajapaksa,  Minister of Economic Development, being the Minister in charge of the subjects of Investment
and Tourism, do by this Notification-
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, a Project to build a Luxury
Hotel and  Residential Units / Villas in Hambantota in the Southern Province, at a total investment of around
US$ 109 Mn.,  having spent around US$ 3. 5 Mn. to purchase a private land, being a project  of that  national
interest  is likely to bring economic and social benefits to the country and also  change the landscape of the
country ; The project company is Shangri- La Investments  Lanka (Private) Limited.
(2) Declare that the date of commencement of  the  project shall be 7th  February 2011  wherein the Project
Agreement between the Board  of  Investment and the  Company implementing the project - Shangri - La
Investments Lanka (Private) Limited  has  been executed, The  project construction period shall be  Thirty six
(36) months from the date of the commencement of the  project. The date of commencement of commercial
operation shall be thirty six (36) months from the  said date of  the commencement of the project ;
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project in terms of the Strategic Development Projects Act, the
exemptions set out in the Schedule to this Notification shall apply to the project company.
SCHEDULE
1. The lnland Revenue Act, No. 10  of 2006 ;
- A ten (10) year  corporate income tax holiday period under the lnland Revenue Act commencing from either the
first (01st) year in which the Company makes taxable profit or three (03) years after commencement of commercial
operations, whichever falls first, Thereafter, there will be a partial exemption granted equivalent to the rate of six
per centum (6%) which is half of the applicable tax rate for each year of assessment for a  further period of fifteen
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'04'05
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 05.04.2011
2A
(15) years immediately succeeding the  last date  of the tax exemption period. For avoidance of doubt, it is to be
noted that the general tax regime then prevailing shall be applicable in relation to the Company implementing the
project after the expiration of the twenty five (25) years as setout above.
The tax on dividends distributed to shareholders out of profits shall be exempted from income tax during the said
ten (10) year tax exemption period and one (01) year thereafter.
- A five (05) year tax exemption from PAYE Tax shall be applicable for a Maximum number of twenty (20) expatriate
staff of  the Company.
- The Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withhoding Tax :
(a) on interest on foreign loans taken  for capital expenditure ;
(b) on technical fees to consultants;
(c) on management fees, royalty payments and marketing fees. Provided  these payments are made to one of
the following subsidiaries of Shangri -La Asia Limited ;
* Shangri-La International Hotel Management Ltd - Hong Kong
* Shangri-La International Hotel Management - BV
* Shangri-La International Hotel Management (Pte) Ltd.  Singapore
Provided the fees will not exceed three per centum  (3%) of gross operating  revenues by way of basic
management fees/ royalties, marketing fees will not exceed one point five per centum (1.5%) of gross
operating revenue and at ten per centum (10%) of  gross operating profits by way of incentive management
fees.
2. The Value Added Tax Act,  (V AT) No. 14 of 2002.
The payment of  Value Added Tax (V AT) on the  importation of  projecct related goods and the local purchases
of project related goods and services  during the project Construction period.
3. The Finance Act,  No. 11 of 2002 - The Company shall be exempted from the payment of Port and Aviation Levy
(PAL) during the project Construction period.
4. Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)  - Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all capital goods
imported in the name of the Company implementing the project during the construction period, in relation to
items so imported solely for the purposes of the Project.
B
ASIL ROHANA RAJAPAKSA, MP,
Minister of Economic Development.
Colombo,
5th April 2011.
04 -604
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.