

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
A
BILL
Presented by Hon. Vidura Wickramanayaka, M. P. for Kalutara District
on 08th March, 2012
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 156]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on February 27, 2012)
BULATHSINHALA JANASAKTHI MAHASANGAMAYA
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
2—PL 006628—850 (03/2012)

<!-- page 2 -->

1Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
2—PL 006595—  75 (02/2012)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE COMPUTER SOCIETY OF SRI LANKA
WHEREAS a Society called and known as  the "Computer
Society of Sri Lanka" has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said Society
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Society has hitherto  successfully
carried out and transacted the several objects and matters for
which it was formed and has applied to be incorporated and
it will be expedient to grant the said application:
BE it therefore, enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as  Computer society of Sri
Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.   of 2012.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such  so many persons as now are members of the
Computer Society of Sri Lanka or shall hereafter be admitted
as members of the Society hereby constituted, shall be a
body corporate with perpectual succession, under the name
and style of the "Computer Society of Sri Lanka" ^hereinafter
referred to as the corporation" and by that name may sue and
be sued, shall have full power and authority to have and use
a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. (i) The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to provide an organization for professionals engaged
in information and communication technology,
supervise and monitor its professional activities and
Incorporation
of the
Bulathsinhala
Janasakthi
Mahasangamaya.

<!-- page 3 -->

2  Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
foster and maintain the highest professional
standards in the industry;
(b) to  recognize, confer and award the status of
Chartered Membership amongst such other classes
of membership as the Corporation may from time
to time decide in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation made under section 6 of this Act;
(c) to promote and develop the study and practice  of
information and communication technology and
to advance knowledge, facilitate education,
training, research and the acquisition and
interchange of technical knowledge therein for the
benefit of the public;
(d) to promote, organize and engage in economic and
financial activities and to carry on such activities
both within and outside Sri Lanka for the purpose
of financing the programmes projects and activities
of the Corporation;
(e) to conduct examinations qualifying for membership
of the Corporation and to test the competence of
persons engaged in information and communication
technology and the award of certificates;
(f) to contribute within the area of its professional
competence to the economic growth of the country;
(g) to manage various programmes and projects of the
Corporation;
(h) to enter into arrangements for union of interest,
cooperation, joint ventures, reciprocal concession
or otherwise with any person carrying on or engaged
in any business or transcation which the
Corporation wishes to carry on or be engaged; and
30
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
(i) to  liaise with similar professional institutions in
Sri Lanka or abroad in furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation;
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things that
are given below:–
(a) to  borrow or raise money with or without security
for the carrying out of the objects of the
corporation;
(b) to  receive or collect savings and donations from
the people concerned for the carrying out of the
objects of the Corporation;
(c) to  perform, execute and administer legal acceptance
that shall directly or indirectly provides an
opportunity to execute all or any of the objects of
the Corporation;
(d) to  write, accept, discount, minute, transact, buy,
sell and disclose receipts, cheques, notes of
assurance and any other instruments of transcation
and to open operate, maintain and close bank
accounts;
(e) to  enter into contracts and agreements with any
individual bodies or organization of anyone;
(f) to  appoint, employ, dismiss officers and servants
of the Corporation as decided by the Corporation
and to provide their salaries, emoluments and
gratuities;
(g) to  invest the money in government's security
bonds or in any other investments when it is not
needed immediately to fulfill the objects of the
Corporation; and
(h) to do, perform and execute any or all such acts, as
are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
30
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4  Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
furtherance of all or anyone of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the rules and regulations of the Corporation that are being
implemented for the time being and be managed, controlled
and administered by nine (09)  members elected in a general
meeting at the zonal level, and a "Board of Administration"
consisting of five (05) members nominated by the President
subject to the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Divisional Secretary of Bulathsinhala shall be
the President of the Corporation.
(3) An Advisory Board consisting of seven(07) members,
inclusive of the President and six (06) other members
nominated by the Board of Administration, shall be
appointed for the guidance of the Corporation.
(4) The members of the Board of Administration of the
Association shall be the first Board of Administration of the
Corporation since the day when this Act becomes effective.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any Annual General Meeting of the Corporation
and by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the members
present and voting to make rules, not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law, for  the
following matters:–
(a) to enrol, withdraw and dismiss members of the
Corporation and to decide over the membership
fees and amount of share that they owe to the
Corporation;
(b) election of Board of Administration, vacation of or
remmoval from office of the office bearers and
Rules of the
Corporation.
30
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
powers, duties and conduct of the office of the
Board of Administration;
(c) appointment, powers, duties and functions and
conduct of the various officers,  agents and servants
of the Corporationt;
(d) procedure to be observed and the summoning,
holding, announcing and agenda, the quorum of
meetings of the Board, Corporation or any
subcommittee thereof, and the procedure to be
adopted to discuss and in decision making.
(2) Any rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner, as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3)  All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
monies received by way of testamentary dispositions,
donations, membership fees, shares or charges shall be
deposited in the name of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Administration shall determine.
(2) The Corporation may establish a depreciation fund, a
welfare fund or a sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation,
development or improvement of the property of the
Corporation.
(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise and discharge of the powers and functions of the
Corporation shall be paid out of the fund.
 8. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Corporation shall be capable in law to take and
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6  Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
Limitation of
the liability
of the
members.
5
hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may be vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise
and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation for the purpose of this Act and subject
to the rules in force for the time being of the
Corporation, with full power to mortgage, sell,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. No member of the Corporation shall be liable to pay
anything except the amount to be recovered from him by
the Corporation for the release of loans and liabilities or any
other matters of the Corporation.
10. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to, subscriptions, contributions, shares or donations
payable to the Association on such day shall be paid to the
Corporation to the purpose of this Act.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the settlement of all its debts and liabilities any
property or whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, and shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is or
are by rules prohibited from distributing any income or
property among its members.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and
all other transactions of the Corporation.
Debts due by
and payble to
the
Association.
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts of
the
Corporation.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Corporation
may hold
movable and
immovable
property.

<!-- page 8 -->

7Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor. In this section "qualified auditor" means–
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an auditor issued by the
Council of such institute; or
(ii) a firm of accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other insitute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an auditor issued by the Council of such Institute.
13. The Seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the
persons duly authorized by the President or the Managing
Director or the Board, who shall sign their names to the
instrument in token of their presence. Such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
14. Nothing contained in this Act shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or any other person.
15. In the event of any consistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
Seal of the
Corporation.
5
10
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
15
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
20

<!-- page 9 -->

8  Bulathsinhala Janasakthi Mahasangamaya
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .