

<!-- page 1 -->

251 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
251
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 253
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... –
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING ACCEPTANCE OF NOTICES
FOR PUBLICATION IN THE WEEKLY “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to each of the ‘Notices’ appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of
acceptance of notices for publication in the weekly Gazette at the end of each Part of the Gazette of the democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in every Part of the Gazette shall close at 12 noon of each Friday, a fortnight before the date of
publication. All Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc., are advised that any notification fixing specific dates for closing times of
applications in regard to vacancies, tender notices and the dates and times of auction sales, etc., should be prepared with due regard to this
change, i.e., by giving adequate time both from the time of despatch of notice to the Government Press and from the date of publication
thus enabling those interested in the contents of the notices to actively and positively participate.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach this Department positively by 12 noon of the Friday, two weeks
prior to date of publication e.g., Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 30th  March, 2007, should reach the Government Press
on or before 12 noon on 16h March, 2007.
L
AKSHMAN   GOONEWARDENA ,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2007.
˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘
¡â¤ 1 ,490 _ 2007 ˜åÚ”º  23  Éæ¾ł ÌŁ¤º˙å…å _ 2007 .03.23
No. 1,490 – FRIDAY , MARCH 23, 2007
N.B.— Part  IV(A)  of the Gazette No. 1,489 of 16.03.2007  was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
252
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 proficiency
Test in one of the Official languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency
Test within two years, and Grade III proficiency  Test (where applicable)
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other then those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensonable posts
should contribute to the Widows ‘ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover form their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Governemt
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and
Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes  the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed  forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads  or Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No traveling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility.
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (1 of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect form 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

253 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
Posts - Vacant
DEPARTMENT OF BUDDHIST  AFFAIRS
Post of  Dirver IIA
APPLICATIONS are called from Sri Lankan for the post of Driver 11 'A' Department of Buddhist Affairs of Ministry of Religious Affairs
and Moral Upliftment.
1. Vacancy :- 01
2. Qualifications :-
2.1 Citizen of Sri Lanka
2.2 Should be not less than 18 years or not more than 45 years the last date of application on called' this highest age limit will not
apply to those who are permanently employed in government service or provincial government service.
2.3 Should be passed grade 8/year 9 the school certified by the Director General of Education.
2.4 Should have the certificate certified by commissioner general of Motor Traffic which can drive private or rent station wagon
vehicle less 24 gross weight (certificate should have obtained before 3 years of the date of appointment.)
2.5 Should be 3 years experience as a driver.
2.6 Height should be 5'2.5''
2.7 Should have good health to work day and night
2.8 Should have very good knowledge about rules of road.
3. Method of recruitment
This post is permanent and pensionable and have 3 years probation period.
4. Condition of service
This post is controlled under Government Service Drivers' Circular.
5. Salary scale
Rs. 12360-10x110-10x120-10x130-12x140-17640 (According to G. S. C. 6/2006)
6. Method of applying
Applications should prepared according to the specimen given at this advertisement and sent to the commissioner general of
Buddhists Affairs, Department of Buddhist Affairs, 135, Dharmapala Mawatha, Colombo 07, under registered post on or before
2007.04.10
on the top of the left hand corner of the envelope in which the application is enclosed the words "Application for the post of
driver" should be marked.
7. Photocopies of the following documents should be forwarded with the application.
i. Birth Certififcate
ii. Certificate of residencies
iii. Educational qualifications
iv. Newly obtained Grama Niladhari certificate
v. Two Character certificates taken
H. W. D. S
UNIL ,
Commissioner general of Buddhists Affairs.
07th March, 2007
Department of Buddhist Affairs,
No. 135, Dharmapala Mawatha,
Colombo 07.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
254
Specimen Application for the Post of Driver II A
1. Name with initials :————.
1.1 Names indicated by first letters :————.
1.2 National Identity Card Number :————.
2. Permanent Address :
3. Date of Birth :————. Date :————. Month :————.  Year :————.
Age up to 10.04.2007 Dates :————. Months :————.   Years :————.
4. Nationality :————.
5. Educational Qualifications (indicate higher qualifications)
5.1Experience :————.
5.2Category of driving license :————.
6. Are you being a guilty by court of law ? If yes, give information.
7. Applicant's certification
I declare that the information furnished by me is true and accurate to the best of my knowledge. I have stated any forge or incorrect
information furnished by me, to the conditions of recruitment, that my application can be cancelled and or after selected me if it is
revealed I am liable to dismissed.
……………………,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
03-695
DEPARTMENT  OF  AYURVEDA
Recruitment for the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Service
APPLICATIONS are invited from citizens of Sri Lanka for the post of Preliminary Grade Medical Officer, in the category of Medical
Officers in the Department of Ayurveda. The applications prepared on a sheet of paper of size 13" x 8" according to the specimen form
appearing herein under, should be sent under registered cover addressed to the “Commissioner of Ayurveda, Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna, Maharagama” on or before 20th April 2007. The words “Posts in the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service” should be written on
the left hand top corner of the envelope enclosing applications.
1. Salary Scale:
(i) For Graduates - Rs. 25,515 - 4 x 645 - 8 x 650 - 16 x 1,050- 50095 (P. S. circulated Number 6/2006 - SL-2-2006, Stage 2)
(ii) For Diploma Holders - A fixed monthly salary of Rs. 23,250 will be paid with the first three years.
2. Age Limit :- Should not be less than 18 years of age and not more than 45 years of age as at 20th April 2007.
3. Educational and other qualifications :-
(i) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka ; and
(ii) Should posses a Degree in Ayurveda/ Sidha/ Unani/ systems of medicine  Obtained  after a five years course of study in a
recognized University, completed  one year intership and registered as a Physician in the Medical Council of Ayurveda or
(iii)Possess a Diploma Certificate in Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani system of medicine obtained after a five years course of study in a
recognized Ayurvedic College and registered as a Physician  in the  Medical  Council of Ayurveda
(iv) Should be of excellent character and physically fit and posses a very good eye sight.
Note : when the waiting list does not contain an adequate number of graduate physicians in Ayurveda,. Siddha or Unani for filling
vacancies in the approved cadre, such vancancies should be filled by recruiting Diploma Holders in Ayurveda, Siddha or Unani with
necessary qualifications.

<!-- page 5 -->

255 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
4. Conditions of Services.- This post is permanent and pensionable. The selected candidate should contribute to the Widows’ and
Orphans/Widowers’ and Orphans’ Pension Scheme. The appointment is subjected to the three year probation.
5. Promotion .- After recruitment to the post of the preliminary Grade, promotions are made in conformity with the terms and
conditions of service laid down in the Sri Lanka Ayurveda Medicals Service Minute.
Note .- (i) After the earliest batch of the Indigenous Physicians who have passed the final (Degree/Diploma) Examination in
(Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani) and who have fulfilled all the qualifications laid down in the Scheme of Recruitments as at 20th April 2007 but so
far not recruited to the government service, but has been recruited in the order of merit based on the individual  marks secured by each of them
and after having been recruited to fill the vacancies of the existing course, the other batches of the Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani Graduate Medical
Officers will be recruited, based on merit as aforesaid according to the chronological order they have passed their examinations.
(ii) From among the Ayurvedic Medical Officers, possessing the Diploma Certificates, selection will be made to fill the vacancies
based on the order of priority indicated in the  Register of Registration as an Ayurvedic  Medical officer.
(iii) Provided howerver, where the Cabinet takes another decision which runs  counter  to the above mentioned Scheme of
Recruitment and the above determination.(Methodology). Such decision made by the Cabinet shall supersede the above-
mentioned Scheme of Recruitment and the determination aforesaid.
(iv) 75% of the vacancies existing in the approved cadre will be filled by Ayurvedic Medical  Officer possessing a degree in
Ayurveda/Siddha/Unani system of medicine and the balance 25% from those who possess a Diploma in the Ayurveda/Siddha/
Unani system of medicine.
(v) The criteria adduced for the recruitment of Siddha/Unani Physician within the total approved cadre Gazetted in the Paragraph
(i) of he Part (i) of the Gazette  of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, dated 23.08.2002 reading along with section
substituted as 10.10 of the Minute of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Service published int he Gazette (Extraordinary) No. 924/2
dated 20th May 1996 of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, will apply for recrutment to the number of vacancies
available in the Cadre.
6. Candidates will be selected through an interview and after certification of qualifications conducted by an Interview Board constituted
for this purpose.
7. Selected applicants should be prepared to serve in any part of island.
8. The selected applicants should be prepared to produce any of the or all the following documents  when called for :
(i) Certificate of Birth
(ii) Degree of diploma Certificate
(iii)Certificate of Experience
(iv) Certificate of Registration in the Medical Council of Ayurveda
(v) Grama Niladhari’s Certificate counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
9. The applications of officers in the Public Service should be applied only through the respective Heads of Departments. Applications
received after 20th April 2007 will be rejected. The applications and all relevant documents should be addressed to the official
designation of the Commissioner of Ayurveda and not to the personal name of any other officer.
10. Reference is also requested to the general conditions applicable the appointments in the Public Service appearing in the beginning
Part I : Section (IIA) of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
As instructed by the Public Service Commission.
A
SHOKA  M ALIMAGE ,
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine.
Ministry of Indigenous Medicine,
Old Kottawa Road,
Nawinna,
Maharagama.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
256
Post of Preliminary Grade medical Officers in the Medical Officers Grade of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Service in the Department of
Ayurveda.
1. Name in Full :———.
2. Address :———.
3. Date of Birth and age as at 20th April 2007 :———.
4. Whether Citizen of Sri Lanka :———.
5. Nationality (Sinhalese/Tamil/Muslim/Burgher/Others) :———.
6. Where the Residential Place belongs to :———.
(i) The Provincial Council :———.
(ii) District :———.
(iii)Divisional Secretary’s Divions :———.
(iv) Where the Residential place belongs to :———.
7. Whether Married/Unmarried :———.
8. Education and /or the Technical qualification (Professional  qualification). :———.
9. Institution and the year where the practical  Training was received. :———.
10. Number and year of Registration in the Medical Council of Ayurveda :———.
11. Details Regarding Experience  :———.
12. Year of Passing the Degree/Diploma :———.
I hereby confirm that the particulars furnished in these applications are true and correct. I am also aware that if it is revealed to the
appointing Authority that any particulars contained herein are untrue  and incorrect. I will be terminated from service without payment of
any compensation.
Signature of Candidate.
Date :———.
REPORT OF THE HEAD OF DEPARTMENT IF THE APPLICANT IS IN THE PUBLIC SERVICE
I hereby certify that the afore- mentioned particulars are correct and that his/her work and conduct are satisfactory. He/She could/could not
be released from the present post.
Signature of the Head of Department,
Designation,
Date  :———.
03-732
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR AIR  FORCE
Airmen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force for Airmen in the Gunner  Trade :—
1. (a) Educational Qualifications required  :-
Passes in 06 subjects at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (without additonal and optional subjects)
including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil/Language. (If Mathematics, Science is/are included in the six subjects Mathematics II, Science II
for an applicant of year 1999/2000).

<!-- page 7 -->

257 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
(b) Other Requirements.— Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force :
(1) Nationality.— Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka,
(2) Age.—  Not less than 18 years of age and not more than 23 years as at 20th May, 2007,
(3) Height.—  5' 5" inches and above,
(4) Weight :  BMI=Weight (kg)<25
       Heght (m)2
(5) Chest : 32” (Minimum)
(6) Vision Colour Standared : CP2
(7) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(8) Civil Status.—  Candidates must be  Unmarried.  ( Airmen are not allowed to marry until the completion of a period of two
years from the date of Enlistment or until one year after the completion of the Basic Trade Training Course or which ever
is later).
2.  Candidates who do not possess the required educational qualifications or fulfill the requirements of paragraph 01 (a) and (b) will
be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height and vision will be measured. Candidates whose  height and vision is below the
standard  specified in the Gazette Notification and who have no exceptional skill will not be interviewed.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievement in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :
(a) Airmen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and orders with effect from the date of
enlistment ;
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordeingly. They will be required to perform
combat duties and any type of duty, day and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.— Selected candidates will be enlisted in the rank of Aircraftman (Second and Third Class) in the Regular
Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in which five years will have to be served continuously and for a further 07 years in the
Regular  Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for further service on completion of five
years of service.
6. Official Language Requirements :
The Selected candidates must confirm to the  Official Language Policy of the Government of Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances :
(a) Pay Rates.— The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen shall be as follows :
Aircraftman - Rs. 166,560–7X1,440–10X1,800 –  Rs. 1,94,640 per annum ;
Leading Aircraftman  - Rs. 170,880–4X1,440–11X1,800 – Rs. 196,440 per annum ;
Corporal - Rs. 175,200–1X1,440–13X1,800 –  Rs. 134,040 per annum.
Sergeant - Rs. 175,320—10x1800–2,2520 - X 3,480 -– Rs. 204,960 per annum
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 182,040—8x1,800–2x2520 - 3x3480 – Rs. 2,11,920 per annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 1,89,240—4x1,800–2x2520 - 9x3480 – Rs. 2,32,800 per annum.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances.— Rs. 1,375.00 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance.— Rs. 600.00 per month.
(3) Enhanced allowance.— Rs. 1,900/- per month for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Enhanced allowance.— Rs. 2,400/-  per month for those serving in Jaffna Peninsula).  (Rs. 80/= will be paid for each
working day).
(5) Incentive Allowances - After completion of 05 years service (Rs. 250.00 to Rs. 850.00 per month.)
(6) Ration Allowance.— Rs. 5,649.75 per month for living out Airmen. (Free messing for living-in Airmen).
(7) Accommodation.—  Free for personnel living-in.
(8) Travelling.— Three sets of Holiday Railway warrants per year (For Airmen, Wife and Children). One set of Railway
warrants per month or the reimbursement of bus fare for living-in Airmen.
(9) Disturbance Allowance.— When proceeding on duty outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).

<!-- page 8 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
258
(10)Qualification pay :-  For personnel who have qualified in special courses or posses qualifications, which are of special
value to the Service. (Up to maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11)Good Conduct Badge Pay.— Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high standard
(Rs. 30.00 to Rs. 204.00 per month).
(12)Uniform upkeep allowances.— Rs. 170 per month.
(13)Re-engagement pay :- Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(14)Medical Facilities.— Provided through Air force expense for Airmen and their Families.
(15) Free travel to work in S.L.T.B. buses for living - out Airmen within a radius of 30 miles (48 Km.).
(16) Following Rent Allowance are payable to married Airmen not in occupation of Government married quarters Rs. 1,200
- Rs. 3,300 per month.
(17)Instructional pay :- (Rs. 425.00 to Rs. 510.00 per month).
(18)Other Allowance.— (Separation and Overseas, etc.) will be paid per  Force Pay Code.
(19) Pensions / Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force  Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from time to
time. All airmen are contributors to the Widows’ and Orphans’ pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme, Rate of contributions
are as per Widows’ and Orphans ‘ pensions (Armend Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970.
  8. Instructions to Applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicant’s own handwriting in terms of the form specified below, all cages of the
application should be filled with much details as possible. Applications should be sent by registered post addressed to
“Chief Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to reach there not later than 1200 noon on 31st
March, 2007. The envelope enclosing the application should be marked “Application for  Airmen” on the top left corner.
Application received at   Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date   and time and not in accordance with the
requirements of this notification and not in registered post will not be considered.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their applications
through their Heads of the Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a certificate to the
effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or when
called upon to do so :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be accepted) ;
(2) Certificate in support of the educational qualifications required ;
(3) Certificate for Trade/Technical  Training and / or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution ;
(4) Two recent certificate of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school attended and the other
from  the responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the present employer
(if employed) ;
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and cadeting, etc..
(d) Applications of candidates who fail to produce documents when required to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original documents or copies of documents should be attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any originals of certificates if enclosed with the application form.
09. Interview will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force Station Colombo.  Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force Recruiting Board. . Such candidates will be informed individually
of the date  time and Place.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do
not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
without the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely  to  be suitable  following their interviews will be required to present themselves before and Air Force
Medical Board.

<!-- page 9 -->

259 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt
to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqualification of such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application, which is found to be incorrect, will render the applicant liable to disqualification, if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
W. D. R. M. J. GOONETILEKE ,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR THE GUNNER TRADE  IN THE
SRI  LANKA  AIR FORCE
01. Full Name :————.
(According to National Identity Card)
02. National Identity Card Number. :————.
03. Postal Address :————.
04. Permanent Address :————.
05. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :————.
06. District :————.
07. Electorate :————.
08. G.S. Division :————.
09. Telephone Number :————.
10. Date of Birth :————.
Age as at 20th May, 2007 :
Years :————, Months :————, Days :————.
11. Married or Single :————.
12. Height Feet :————, Inches :————.
13. G.C.E. (O/L) Examination :
  Year Index No. Subject Passed Grading
14.  G.C.E. (A/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subject Passed Grading

<!-- page 10 -->

 I ï¤å·Ì : (II¡) ïﬂ…˘ _ ˚òØ ¨â¤å Àò°å”å¾à”òŁ¤ Ì˜å°Éå…ß °¾˙°ï˘à “æÌ À”ò˘  _ 2007 .03.23
PART  I : SEC . (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 23.03.2007
260
15. (a) Any special qualifications for the post :————.
(Eg.— Technical, Training and Experience, etc.)
16. Details of special achievements in sports :————.
17. Other achievements of note at school or with outside organizations :————.
18. If previously applied for the Armed Forces or Police Service, give details :————.
19. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military Court? If so, give details :————.
20. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name  Description Permanent Address
21. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above questions are, to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I have read
and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are selected as
Airmen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force published in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
———————,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :————.
03-621
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.