

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
169
169
wxl 1"848 - 2014 ckjdß 31 jeks isl=rdod - 2014'01'31
No. 1,848 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 31, 2014
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 172
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 181
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st February, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
February, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2014.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N.B.— (i) Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,847 of 24.01.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
170
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
171
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
172
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
V ACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :–
(a) Air Field Construction Branch ;
(b) Medical Branch ;
(c) Dental Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Air Field Construction Branch :
Material Engineering Officers for Asphalt Plant -
Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant.– BSc in Engineering Specialized in
Civil or Material Engineering with one (1) year post
qualification experience in an Asphalt Plant and having
ability to handle all quality assurance practices related
to the asphalt productions. The candidates should have
thorough knowledge in design of Asphalt mixes and
testing of related material and capability to administrate
multiple site laboratories ; or
BSc Specialized in Material Science with two (2) years
post qualification experience in an Asphalt Plant and
having ability to handle all quality assurance practices
related to the asphalt productions. The candidates
should have thorough knowledge in design of Asphalt
mixes and testing of related material and capability to
administrate multiple site laboratories.
* Flying Officer. – NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil
Engineering and post qualification experience in Asphalt
Plant for three (3) years.
Building Service Engineering Officers - Male
(Regular/Volunteer)
* Temporary Squadron Leader. – BSc in Engineering
Specialized in Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering
with MSc in Building Service Engineering with two (2)
years post qualification experience in designing/
developing/Managing new technologies related to
building services including air conditioning, water
supply, sanitation, public health, fire protection, lift
and escalators.
Civil/Electrical Engineers - Male (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant.– BSc in Engineering Specialized in
Civil/Electrical Engineering or equivalent qualification.
* Flying Officer.–  NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil/Electrical
Engineering or equivalent qualification with three (3)
years post qualification experience.
* Pilot Officer.– NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil/Electrical
Engineering or equivalent qualification with less than
three (3) years post qualification experience.
Quantity Surveyors - Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant .– BSc in Quantity Surveying
conducted by the University of Moratuwa or Graduate
member of the Institute of Quantity Surveyors in Sri
Lanka with two (2) years post qualification experience
or Technical member of the Institute of Quantity
Surveyors in Sri Lanka with three (3) years post
qualification experience in the relevant field.
* Flying Officer.– Technical member of the Institute of
Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka or Successful
completion of National Diploma in Quantity Surveying
conducted by UNIVOTEC Ratmalana with two (2)
years post qualification experience.
Surveyors - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant.–  BSc in Surveying Science from
University of Sabaragamuwa or Bachelor Degree from
ISM Diyathalawa.
* Flying Officer.–  Diploma in survey from ISM
Diyathalawa.
(b) Medical Branch :
Medical Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant .– MBBS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Pre-Intern Trainees - Male/Female (Regular)
* MBBS or Medical Degree equivalent to MBBS (Sri Lanka)
from any recognized university of a foreign country which
is accepted by SLMC. They will be enlisted as Regular
Commissioned Officer for a period of 5 years and should
qualify the ERPM examination and SLMC registration
within 5 years from the date of enlistment.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
173
* Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank of
Flying Officer. After completion of ERPM examination
and with SLMC registration they will be considered for
the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
(c) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant .– BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Pre-Intern Trainees - Male/Female (Volunteer)
* BDS of Dental Degree equivalent to BDS (Sri Lanka) from
any recognized University of a foreign country, which is
accepted by SLMC. They will be enlisted as V olunteer
Commissioned Officer for a period of 5 years and should
qualify the ERPM examination and SLMC registration
within 5 years from the date of enlistment. The service of
the Pre-Intern trainees who fail to qualify the above
examination will be terminated.
* Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank of
Flying Officer. After completion of ERPM examination
and with SLMC registration they will be considered for
the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
Dental Students - Male/Female (Regular)
Pilot Officer.– Completed 2nd BDS and beginning of 3rd
year.
Flying Officer.– Completed final BDS Part I and studying
in the final year.
Note :
* Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission in the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
* Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka Air
Force until completion of final year. They will also be
Commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with the
SLMC.
* Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
* Dental students to submit a certificate from their respective
Universities depicting their year of studies.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : As at 31st March, 2014
(1) For Air Field Construction Medical
and Dental (Medical/Dental Officers
and Pre-intern Trainees) : 18 to 35 years
(2) For Dental Branch (Dental Student) : 18 to 30 years
(e) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
(f) Weight : Body Mass Index should be in
accordance with the Physical
Efficiency Test Standards of the Sri
Lanka Air Force
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With
or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may possesses special qualifications may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height/weight provided
he/she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
174
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15( d)(17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :–
Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 =
Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Medical Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920 - 2 x 7,740 - Rs. 329,400
p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 -12x 15,720 - Rs. 697,320
p. a.
(c) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Dental - Rs. 306,180 -3x 7,740 - Rs. 329,400 p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 -12x 15,720 - Rs. 697,320
p. a.
(d) Other allowances applicable to Medical and Dental
Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I – Rs. 3,400 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs 2,125 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 25,000 per month
(4) Extra duty payments
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 335 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 383 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 528 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 628 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are
to be calculated separately as applicable.
(e) Service Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 6,600 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
3. Hard line allowance Rs. 600 per month.
4. Additional hard line allowance Rs. 4,400 per month
for those serving in operational areas.
5. Special allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100 will
be paid for per day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 14,449.80 per month (if
permitted to live out).
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Sepcial allowance 20% of consolidated salary.
12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
13. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
15. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
16. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
175
17. Rent Allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
18. Service Allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Medical and Dental
Officers in consideration to the number of complete
years of service)
19. Additional Service Allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Medical and Dental Officers
only).
20. 1/20 Allowance - Con pay x 1/20 x 3 days (Maximum)
per month (applicable to service Medical and Dental
Officers only).
21. Extra Duty Payments 120 hours (maximum) per
month (applicable to service Medical and Dental
Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Command
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda”
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 10th
February, 2014 under registered cover. The envelope
enclosing the application should be marked  “Application
for Commission in the ........... Branch” Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with
the requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant ;
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
176
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
9. E-mail Address :––––––––––.
10. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
11. Height :–––––'––––––".
12. District :–––––––––––.
13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
14. Grama Seva Division and Number :–––––––––––.
15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
16. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
19. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
20. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
21. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
22. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
23. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
26. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that answers given to the above
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be
adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates
who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published
in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
01–905
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Airmen/Airwomen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force
for Airmen/Airwomen in the trades are given below :
1. (a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
1. Aeronautical Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Frame Mechanic (Male),
(b) Aero Engine Mechanic (Male),
(c) Aero Electrical and Instrument Mechanic (Male).

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
177
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English
Languages. Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/
Science is essential.
2. General Engineering Trades :
(a) Armament Mechanic (Male)
(b) Motor Transport Mechanic (Male)
(c) Air Craft Welder Assistant (Male)
(d) Surface Assistant (Male)
(e) General Mechanic (Male)
(f) Sheet Metal Worker (Male)
(g) Carpenter Mechanic (Male).
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English
Languages. Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/
Science will be an added qualification.
3. Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering Trades :
(a) Air Radio Mechanic (Male)
(b) Telegraph Mechanic (Male).
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English
Languages. Mathematics and Science. A credit pass for Mathematics/
Science is essential.
(c) Telephonist (Male)
(d) Computer Technician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English
Languages.
4. Medical Trades :
(a) Nursing Assistant (Male/Female)
(b) Dental Assistant (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including ordinary passes in English Language and credit
passes in Sinhala/Tamil language, Mathematics, Science and one
other subject. Having three passes at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
from Science Stream in one sitting will be added advantage for
selection and a qualification for advance training under Ministry of
Health Services.
5. Logistics Trades :
(a) Supplier (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil and English
Language and a credit in Mathematics/Science/Business and Account
Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will
be an added qualification.
(b) Catering Assistant (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil  Language.
6. Administrative Trades :
(a) Administrative Assistant (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English
Languages and a credit in Mathematics/Business and Account
Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will
be an added qualification.
(c) Accounts Assistant (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English
Languages and a credit in Mathematics/Business and Account
Studies. Knowledge on computers (Microsoft Office package) will
be an added qualification.
7. Operations Trades :
(a) Operations Air (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil  and a credit
in English Language.
(b) Operations Ground (Male/Female)
(c
) Dog Handler (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil  Language.
8. Police Trade :
(a) Police (Male/Female)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
178
considered) including an ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil  and English
Languages. Priority will be given to male and female candidates
those who measured 5'8" and 5'6" or above in height respectively.
9. Musician Trades :
(a) Musician (Male)
Passes in 06 subjects at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination at not
more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects not
considered) including an ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil  Language.
Ability of singing and playing of musicial instrument will be
considered as special qualification.
(b) Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following
general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular
Air Force :–
(1) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(2) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more
than 23 years (Male),
Not less than 18 years and not more
than 22 years (Female) as at 31st
July, 2014  ;
(3) Height : 5 feet 5 inches and above (Male) ;
5 feet 3 inches and above (Female)
(4) Weight : 17< BMI < 26 (Male)
17<BMI <25 (Female)
BMI  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2 (m)
(5) Vision Colour Standard : CP 2
(6) Visual Acuity : 6/6 each eye (without spectacles)
(7)  Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried.
(Airmen/Airwomen is not allowed to marry until the
completion of two years from the date of enlistment
and until one year after the completion of the Basic
Trade Training Course and which ever is later).
2. Candidates who do not possess the required educational
qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 01 "a" and "b"
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height, weight
and vision will be measured. Candidates whose height, weight and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification
and who have not exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may
at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be cnsidered
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements
in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen/Airwomen will be governed by the Air Force
Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with
effect from the date of enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the
selected trades accordingly. They will be required to
perform combat duties and any type of duty, day and
night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of
Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.– Selected candidates will be enlisted
to the third class of the rank of Aircraftsman/Aircraftwomen in the
Regular Air Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in
which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst serving
a further 04 years in the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to
do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen/Airwomen to extend
for further service on completion of eight years of service on the
discretion of Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
6. Official Language Requirements.–  The selected candidates
must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government of
Sri Lanka.
7. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen
shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - R. 173,100 - 6 x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320 - 4x Rs. 1,740 - 19x
Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Corporal - Rs. 183,540 -10x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880
- Rs. 229,860 Per annum
Sergeant Rs. 187,620 - 3 x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880 -
3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700 - 1x Rs. 2,040 - 9x
Rs. 2,880 - 3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500 - 7x Rs. 2,880 - 14x
Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 273,420 per annum
Master Warrant Officer - Rs. 223,500 - 13x Rs. 3,840
- Rs. 273,420 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated
pay scale applicable to airmen increments in promotions will be
based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade
efficiency and will be placed in the appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowances of Rs. 6,600 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 3,900 per month for
those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance - 1- Rs. 2,400 per month (Rs. 80 will
be paid per day).
(5) Special allowance - 2 - 15% of consolidated salary and
Rs. 375 w. e. f. May, 2013.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
179
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years
service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 12,758.40 per month for living
out Airmen (free messing for living-in Airmen).
(8) Uniform upkeep allowance - Rs. 170 per month.
(9) Interim allowance - Rs. 1,000 per month.
(10) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(11) Travelling - Three sets of holiday railway warrants per
year (for Airmen/Airwomen/Wife/Husband and
Children as applicable). One set of railway warrants
per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in
Airmen).
(12) Disturbance allowance - When proceeding on duty
outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/
unmarried).
(13) Qualification pay - For personnel who have qualified
in special courses or possess qualifications, which are
of special value to the service. (Up to maximum of
Rs. 637.50 per month).
(14) Good conduct badge pay - Paid to personnel whose
behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high
standard. (Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(15) Re-engagement pay - Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300
per month during the period of re-engagement.
(16) Medical facilities - Provided through Air Force expense
for Airmen/Airwomen and their married families.
(17) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T.
B. buses for living out Airmen/Airwomen within a
radius of 30 miles (48km).
(18) Following rent allowance are payable to married
Airmen/Airwomen not in occupation of Government
married quarters Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(19) Instructional pay - (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(20) Other allowance - (separation and overseas etc.) will
be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(21) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air
Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended
from time to time. All Airmen is contributors to the
Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces)
Scheme. Rate of contributions are as per Widows' and
Orphans' Pensions (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970).
8. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in applicants own
handwriting in terms of the from specified below. All cages
of the application should be filled with much detail as
possible. Applications should be sent by registered post
addressed to "Command Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air
Force Trade Training School, Ekala, Kotugoda" so as to
reach there not later than 1200 noon on 28th February
2014. The envelope enclosing the application should be
marked "Application for Airmen/Airwomen" on the top
left corner. Applications received at Sri Lanka Air Force,
Ekala, Kotugoda after closing date and time and not in
accordance with the requirement of this notification and
not in registered post will not be considered.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear
a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released
if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the
following documents when interviews or when called upon
to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued
for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificates in support of the educational
qualifications required.
(3) Certificates of Trade/Technical training and/or
experience (if any) obtained from a recognized
institution will be an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these
should be from the Principal of the last school
attended and the other from a responsible person
who has the know of the applicant for more than two
years or from the present employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities and
cadeting etc.
(d) Application of candidates who fail to produce document
when required to do so will not be considered.
(e) No original documents or copies of document should be
attached to the application form.
(f) The Air Force will not be responsible for loss of any
originals of certificates if enclosed with the application
form.
9. Candidates considered suitable for the interview will be
required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an
Air Force Recruiting Board. Such candidates will be informed
individually of place, date and time.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
180
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews,
he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who do not
have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of
the accepted identification. However, no candidates will be enlisted
with out the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews
will be required to present themselves before an Air Force Medical
Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected
according to high marks merit at these interviews.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do
so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt to
influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqulaification
of such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not
be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  AIRMEN/AIRWOMEN IN THE
SRI  LANKA  AIR FORCE
1. Full Name :––––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
2. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
3. Applied Trade :–––––––––––––.
4. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
5. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
6. Nearest Air Force Station :–––––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. District :–––––––––––.
9. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
10. G.S. Division :–––––––––––––.
11. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
12. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
13. Age (as at 31st July 2014) :
Years :–––––––––,  Months :––––––––,  Days :––––––––.
14. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
15. Gender :–––––––––––––.
16. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.
17. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
18. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Y ear Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
19. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––––.
(Eg.– Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
20. Details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :–––––––––––.
22. If previously applied for the Armed Forces of Police give
details :–––––––––––.
23. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :–––––––––––.
24. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address
25. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force pubilshed
in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
01–904

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
181
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY OF BOTANIC GARDENS AND PUBLIC
RECREATION
Department of National Botanic Gardens
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR
RECRUITMENT OF GARDENS FORMAN TO FILL THE
V ACANCIES IN THE DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL
BOTANIC GARDENS
APPLICATIONS are invited from the Qualified Citizens of Sri
Lanka for the Post of Gardens Forman of Management Assistant
Technical Segment – 3 to fill the vacancies available at the gardens
of the Department of National Botanic Gardens.
02. Conditions of Service .– The selected candidates shall be
appointed to Grade III of the Service on the following conditions.
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable.
(ii) The employment is subjected to a probation period of
three years from the date of appointment.
(iii) The Selected officers are required to comply with the
provisions of the constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka,  National Language Policy
Establishment Code, Financial Regulations, Government
Circulars & Procedural Rules of Public Service
Commission, Departmental Orders and any other Orders
that are already issued or which may be issued by the
Government from time to time.
(iv) The officer should pass the 1st Efficiency Bar
Examination within the three years from the date of
appointment in Grade III.
(v) The relevant proficiency level of the second official
language should be acquired as per the provisions of
Public Administration Circular 07/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
03. Salary Scale :
I. Salary Group -   MT 1 – 2006 A
II. Salary Scale – Rs. 14,425 – 10 x 145 – 11 x 170 – 6 x 240
– 14 x 320 – Rs. 23,665 (According to Public
Administration Circular No. 6/2006 (IV) )
04. Qualifications :
4.1 (i) Education Qualifications :
Should have passed six (06) subjects with Credit
passes for Sinhala or Tamil or English language,
Mathematics and two other subjects in one sitting in
G .C.E (O/L) Examination.
(ii) Professional Qualification :
Being successfully completed and obtained a
certificate of a technical course in Agriculture /
Gardening / Floriculture or Nursery management
related to Botanic Gardens sector which is equal or
above the level – V of National V ocational
Qualifications (NVQ) accepted by commission for
Tertiary and V ocational Education which is relevant
to the duties of this post.
(iii) Experience :
Experience of the relevant field will be considered as
a special qualification.
4.2 Other Qualifications :
(i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(ii) Applicants should bear an excellent moral character.
(iii) Applicants should have fulfilled all qualifications as
mentioned in above 4.1 (i) and 4.1 (ii) required for
recruitment to the post at the closing date of
applications as mentioned in this Gazette Notification.
(iv) Every applicant should be in good mental and
physical order to serve in any part of the Island and
shall get through a government medical examination.
(v) Should not be less than 18 years and more than 35
years of age at the closing date of the application.
(Age limit is not applicable to the applicants who
are already confirmed in the Government Service).
05. Method of Application.– The application should be prepared
in the form of specimen appended to this notification using A4 size
(8 ½" x 12") paper using both sides. Duly completed application
should be forwarded through registered post addressed to "The
Director General, Department of National Botanic Gardens, P.O
Box 14, Peradeniya" to reach on or before 24th February 2014. The
post applied should be written on the left hand top corner of the
envelope enclosing the application.
06. Examination Fee. – A deposit for the value of Rs. 400/- be
made in favor of "The Director General, Department of National
Botanic Gardens, Peradeniya Branch of Bank of Ceylon Account
No: 0007040743 before the closing date of application and the
receipt should be pasted in the relevant cage of the application
form. (Keep a photocopy for future reference).
07. Method of Selection.– By written examination and structured
examination.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
182
07.1 Written Examination :
(i) This is a combine paper to examine general knowledge,
general intelligence and knowledge of relevant subject
fields.
(ii) This examination will be held by The Director General,
Department of National Botanic Gardens. Candidates
who obtained higher marks from the exam, will be called
for the structured interview only two times the number
of vacancies.
Date of Examination will be informed in future
Medium of Examination.–  The Examination will be held in
Sinhala and Tamil Languages.
08. Syllabus.– General knowledge / General intelligence and
Amenity Horticulture / Fundamental Botany / Flowers and
Ornamental Plants Cultivation / Plant propagation and Garden
Maintenance.
09. Structured Interview.– Structured interview will be held for
selected candidates by the Director General, Department of National
Botanic Gardens. Maximum of 100 marks will be given to the
candidates for Additional Educational Qualifications, Additional
Professional Qualifications, Language proficiency, Experience and
skills performed at the interview.
Dr. D.S.A W
IJESUNDARA,
The Director General,
Department of National Botanic Gardens.
 …… January 2014
MINISTRY OF BOTANIC GARDENS AND PUBLIC RECREA TION
DEPARTMENT OF NATIONAL BOTANIC GARDENS
APPLICATION FOR OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION
FOR RECRUITMENT OF GARDEN FORMAN OF
DEP ARTMENT OF NATIONAL BOTANIC GARDENS
(Office use only)
01. Language medium of examination:- Sinhala - 01
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage) Tamil – 02
02. Name with initials (In English Block Capitals) Mr./ Mrs./Miss :
–––––––––––.
03. Name in full (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
04. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
05. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
06. Postal Address (In English Block Capitals) :–––––––––––.
07. 7.1 Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
7.2  Age as at the closing date of application:
Years : Months : Days :
08. Sex :
0 – Female 1 – Male
09. Civil Status :
1 – Unmarried   2 – Married
10. Ethnic Group
(Sinhala – 1, Tamil – 2, Indian Tamil – 3,
Muslim – 4, Other – 5)
11. Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
12. Qualifications:
12.1 Educational Qualifications :
Particulars of the G.C.E. (O/L) examination :
y Year and the medium of the examination :–––––––––.
y Index Number :–––––––––––.
y Result of the examination :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 6.
2. 7.
3. 8.
4. 9.
5. 10.
12.2 Professional Qualifications:
y Obtained Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––.
y Date of Completion :–––––––––––.
y Relevant Institution :–––––––––––.
12.3 Other Qualifications :–––––––––––.
13. Experience :–––––––––––.
14. Have you been convicted by a Court of Law for any offence (If
yes give particulars) :–––––––––––.
15. Particulars if the receipt for payment of examination fees:
      1. Number and the date of the receipt :–––––––––––.
Paste the receipt properly here.
(Keep a photocopy for future reference)

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
183
16. Declaration of the candidate:
I do here by declare that the particulars furnished above are true
& accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief. I also declare
that I have not been dismissed or treated as a person vacated the
post from Public Service. I agree to be bound by the rules governing
the examination and any decision that may be taken to cancel my
candidature prior to, during or after the examination if it is found
that I am ineligible according to the regulations of the examination.
Further I agree to be bound by the rules & regulations imposed by
The Director General, Department of national botanic Gardens
who reserves the right to make all decision with regard to the
appointment and place of work of this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
17. For the Candidates who already serve in the Public Service
Certificate of the Head of Department :
I forward here with the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ……
Who is currently serving  in this Ministry/Department ,  as a
permanent/temporary …………………… & certify that  he/she
can  be released from the current post of this Ministry/Department,
if she/he is selected for this post.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of head of Department and
Official Frank.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :–––––––––––.
01–906
–––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  OF SRI  LANKA
AYURVEDIC MEDICAL  SERVICE - 2014
IT is hereby notify that an Efficiency Bar Examination for Ayurvedic
Medical Service (For Ayurvedic Medical Officers) will be held in
Colombo by the Department of Ayurveda.
01. Candidates will be bound by the ruels and regulations imposed
by the Commissioner of Ayurveda.
02. The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appendix to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/herself. Application should be sent by those
who are qualified according to the service minute of the Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service, by the registered post through the
respective heads of institution to reach the "Registrar, Examination
Division, Department of Ayurveda, Nawinna, Maharagama" on or
before 17.02.2014 "Efficiency Bar Examination for Sri Lanka
Ayurvedic Medical Service - 2014" should be indicated at the top
left hand corner of the envelope containing the application.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time
need not to pay examination fees. However, stamps to the value of
Rs. 200 should be affixed for the whole examinations for subsequent
sittings and stamps to the value of Rs. 50 per subject should be
affixed if not applying for the whole examination. The stamp should
be duly cancelled by placing signature of the candidate and the date.
Under any circumstance the fees will not be refunded or transferred.
03. Identity of the candidates .– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :
(i) The National Identity Card issued by Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
04. The Commissioner, Department of Ayurveda will issue the
timetable and admission card to all candidates whose applications
have been accepted. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and submit to the supervisor of
the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will not
be permitted to sit for the examination. If a candidate has not
received his/her admission card at least seven days (07) before the
day of examination, He/She should without delay inform the
"Registrar, Examination Division, Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna, Maharagama" about the non-receipt of admission cards
along with the following information :
(i) Name of the Examination ;
(ii) Full name of the candidate ;
(iii) Postal Address ;
(iv) Name of the Post Office, Registration Number and Date
of the receipt.
05. Scheme of Examination.- (According to the service minute
of the Sri Lanka Ayurvedic Medical Service.
(I) Financial Regulation - One paper based on the following :
(i) Financial Regulation of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka Part I (Except Chapter X)
(II) Establishment Code - One paper based on the following :
(i) Chapters - I, II, III, IV , V, VI, VII, VIII, XII, XIII, XIV ,
XXIII, XXVII, XXIX, XXX, XXXII of the V olume I

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
184
of the Establishment Code of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and Procedural Rules Code of
the Public Service Commission.
(ii) Chapters - XLVII and XLVIII of Part II of the
Establishment Code of Democratic Socialist Republic
of Sri Lanka.
(III) Hospital Administration - One paper based on the
following :
(i) General rules and regulations relevant to the hospitals.
(ii) Cleanliness in hospital.
(iii) Rules and Regulations relevant to the patients.
(iv) Supply proper meals to the patients.
(v) Administration of drug manufactures.
(vi) Rules and Regulations regarding the admission of
patients.
(vii) Knowledge of the duties of all the employees in the
hospitals.
(viii) General administration in hospitals.
(ix) General administration of the Department of Ayurveda.
(x) Regulation of the stores accounts of the Department
of Ayurveda.
(xi) Manual of procedure of the Department of Ayurveda.
(IV) Of ficial Languages - Oral test. Sinhala/Tamil (15 minutes)
(i) For officers who joined the service in Sinhala medium :
(a) Answering the Tamil questions in Tamil Language.
(b) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.
(c) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(ii) For Officers who joined the service in Tamil medium :
(a) Answering the Sinhala questions in Sinhala Language.
(b) Translate Sinhala sentences to Tamil Language.
(c) Translate Tamil sentences to Sinhala Language.
Note.– Candidate must obtain at least 40 marks to pass in each
subject.
P. S. K. R. W
EERAKOON,
Commissioner of Ayurveda,
Department of Ayurveda.
Department of Ayurveda,
Nawinna,
Maharagama,
13th January, 2014.
Specimen Application Form
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION OF SRI LANKA
AYURVEDIC MEDICAL SERVICE - 2014
Index No. :
(For office use only)
Medium of Examination :
(Write the relevant letter in the cage)
Sinhala - S T amil - T
01. Name with initials : Mr./Mrs./Miss :–––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
02. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
03. Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
04. Name denoted by Initials :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil Letters)
05. National Identity Card No. :
06. (i) Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institute :
–––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
(ii) Province of the Office/Department/Institute :–––––––––.
07. (i) Name and Address of the Office/Department/Institute :
–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
(ii) Telephone No. (Official) :–––––––––––.
08. (i) Post :–––––––––––.
(ii) Number and Date of the letter of appointment :–––––––.
09. Subject/Subjects you wish to face :
Serial Number Subject Subject No.
10. Have you passed one or more subjects from any of the following
subjects in previous examination sittings. Financial Regulations/
Establishment Code/Hospitals Management/Oral Examination
(Tamil/Sinhala) :–––––––––––.
If so, Index No. and Year :
Subject Index No. Y ear

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
185
l1. Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :–––––––.
If not, value of the stamps affixed :–––––––––––.
Stamp cage :
Stamp to the value of Rs. 200 for the whole examination and
Rs. 50 for each subject.
Note.– The candidate should affix stamps to the relevant
value and cancel them by placing their signature and date.
Stamps should not overlap each other.
I declare that the above particulars are true that I am eligible to
appear for the examination in the language medium indicated above.
I also certify that the Rs. .................... stamps affixed here to are
genuine and have not been used before. I agree to abide by the rules
and regulations of this examination.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the Candidate.
Date :–––––––––––.
––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Admission to National Colleges of Education to follow a Pre-Service Professional
Course in Teacher Education - 2014
1.0 APPLICATIONS are invited from those with requisite academic qualifications and Eligibility to follow a Three Year Pre-Servic e
Professional Course in Teacher Education in National Colleges of Education.
2.0 Eligibility : Every applicant should –
2.1 Be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
2.2 Possess an excellent character and sound physical and mental health ;
2.3 Age :
2.3.1 Should not be more than 25 years of age as on 01.01.2014 ;
2.3.2 Buddhist Monks/Buddhist Nuns who apply for the course of Buddhism should not be more than 27 years of age as
on 01.01.2014;
2.3.3 Clergy who apply for the course of Catholicism/Christianity should not be more than 30 years of age as on 01.01.2014 ;
2.4 Should be unmarried.
3.0 Basic Educational Qualifications :
3.1 Should have passed three subjects in one sitting at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012.  (Two passes only for
estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education).
(Applicants for Technological Studies  - Crafts and Art Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.23, applicants for
Design and Technology Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.24 and applicants for Christianity/Catholicism
Course should refer to the NOTE in paragraph 4.8 ).
3.2 Should have passed  six core subjects  including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language with three Credit passes at the G .C.E.
(O/L) Examination/Preliminary Piriven Examination in not more than two sittings. (Should have passed at least 5 Core
subjects at the first sitting).
Note.– The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head
of his/her Department/Institute or an officer authorized
to sign on behalf of such Head of the Department.
A
TTESTATION OF THE SIGNATURE
I do hereby certify that ..................... who forward this
application is an officer attached to my office/known to me
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature before me on
........................
–––––––––––––,
Signature and rubber stamp
of the Attester.
Name of the Attester :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
01–928

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
186
Core subjects - (i) Religion, (ii) First Language, (iii) English Language, (iv) Mathematics, (v) History, (vi) Science and
Technology, (vii) Aesthetic Subjects (Art, Dancing, Music, Drama and Theatre, Literature (Sinhala, Tamil, English, Arabic),
(viii) Technical subjects (Agriculture, Commerce and Accounts, Handy craft) or one subject out of first and third categories
by the applicants who followed G. C. E. (O/L) New Syllabus - 2008.
Compulsory subjects of Preliminary Piriven final examination are (i) Sinhala, (ii) Pali, (iii) Sanskrit, (iv) English,
(v) Mathematics, (vi) Thripitaka.
3.3 If the Special requirements in the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination mentioned under 3.2 have not been completed in two sittings,
they should have been completed at the third sitting. (Special requirements will be considered only if the applicants have
completed the basic qualifications indicated at 3.1 and 3.2 above. If special qualifications have not been especially mentioned;
only the qualifications mentioned under 3.1 and 3.2 will be considered).
3.4 English Language proficiency for the English Language Course and English Medium Courses.
3.4.1 Those who apply for English Medium courses except for English Language Course should have obtained a Credit
pass in English/Ordinary pass in English Literature at the G.C.E. (O/L) Examination.
3.4.2 Applicants for the English Language Course should have obtained Very Good Pass in English Language/Credit Pass
in English Literature. A Credit for English or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature at G .C.E. (O/L) will be sufficient
if the applicants have passed English Language as a subject in G .C.E. (A/L). However, in case of obtaining the same
mark in proficiency test by two or more applicants, the results obtained at the G. C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting will
be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a Distinction pass, 03 marks for a Very Good pass, 02 marks
for a Credit pass and 01 mark for an Ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the
total number of marks obtained in each district.  The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects.
If both proficiency and G . C. E. (O/L) marks are the same, Z score obtained in each district will be considered for
selection.
3.4.3 Although the Courses on  Information Communication Technology and Western Music are conducted in the English
Medium, the applicants are selected from those who have appeared for G.C.E. (A/L) in Sinhala or Tamil or English
Medium concerning the number of vacancies existing in Sinhala and Tamil Medium Schools.
3.4.4 Applicants who are called for interview for Art/Music will be granted an additional marks for the grades obtained in
G. C. E. (A/L) for the relevant subject as given below :
A Grade - 0.5
B Grade - 0.3
C Grade - 0.2
S Grade - 0.1
3.5 Effective date of all the Educational/V ocational certificates should be on or before the closing date of applications.
4.0 Educational Qualifications and Other Special Requirements :
Educational qualifications and other special requirements applicable to each Course in National Colleges of Education are as
follows :–
4.1 Course No. 01 - Primary Education (Sinhala)
Primary Education (Tamil)
4.1.1 Three passes including Sinhala/Tamil Language at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in year 2012. (Two passes
including Sinhala/Tamil Language only for estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education) ; and
4.1.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in six (06) core subjects including Credit passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, English
and Mathematics.
Note.– * If sufficient applicants with credit pass in English at G. C. E. (O/L) are not available in relevant district for
Primary Education Tamil Medium Course, a simple pass in English at G . C. E. (O/L) will be considered
together with other qualifications required.

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
187
* Applicants of the Primary Education (Sinhala Medium) course at Dambadeniya National College of Education
should have passed Buddhist Darmacharya Examination in addition to all the qualifications required. The
number of students admitted to Dambadeniya National College of Education is 60.
* Applicants selected to follow Primary Education course should serve continuously in Primary Section in
the Government Schools in after completing the course. Four Sinhala medium teachers and one Tamil
medium teacher of primary education will be attached to the Primary Education Unit established in Lady
Ridgeway Hospital for Children for one year service.
4.2 Course No. 02 - Science (Sinhala)
Science (Tamil)
Science (English)
4.2.1 Three passes in one sitting at the G.C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 in the following subjects :–
Physics, Chemistry and Biology (Two passes among the above subjects including Biology for SriPada National
College of Education only for estate workers children) ;
and
4.2.2 Passed at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Mathematics.
Note.–  Science (English Medium) Course.
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 from each district and appeared for G .C.E.
(A/L) in the English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.2.1 and 4.2.2 obtained from each district and apeared
for G .C.E. (A/L) in the Sinhala/Tamil Medium. If 50% of the qualified applicants as per (i) is not available layman
applicants will be selected as per (ii).
4.3 Course No. 03 - Mathematics (Sinhala)
Mathematics (Tamil)
Mathematics (English)
4.3.1 Three passes at the G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2012  in the following subjects :–
Mathematics, Combined Mathematics or Higher Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry. (Two passes in one of the
following subjects including Mathematics, Combined Mathematics and Higher Mathematics only for estate workers
children for SriPada National College of Education) ;
and
4.3.2 Passed at G.C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with a pass in Sinhala/Tamil Language and a Credit pass in
Science.
Note.–  Mathematics  (English Medium) Course
(i) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 from each district and appeared for G .C.E.
(A/L) in the English Medium.
(ii) 50% of those who have completed the qualifications under 4.3.1 and 4.3.2 from each district and apeared for G .C.E.
(A/L) in the Sinhala/Tamil Medium. If 50% of the qualified applicants as per (i) is not available layman applicants
will be selected as per (ii).
4.5 Course No. 05 - Buddhism
Buddhist Priests and Nuns can apply for the Course of Buddhism.
4.5.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2012 with three subjects including two out of Buddhism,
Buddhist Civilization, Pali and Sinhala ;
4.5.2 Passed Pracheena, Preliminary Examination ;
4.5.3 Passed Bauddha Dharmacharya Examination ;

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
188
4.5.4 Passed Daham School Final Examination ;
4.5.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Sinhala Language, Buddhism and
Mathematics/passed Preliminary Pirivena Final Examination in Six (06) compulsory subjects with Sinhala
Language, Mathematics and Tripitaka Dharma.
Note.–
(i) Priority order in selection –
(a) Applicants having all certificates 4.5.1, 4.5.2, 4.5.3, 4. 5. 4 and 4.5. 5 ;
(b) Applicants having certificates 4.5.1, 4.5.2 and 4.5.5 ;
(c) Applicants having certificates 4.5.1, 4.5.3 and 4.5.5 ;
(d) Applicants having certificates 4.5.1, 4.5.4 and 4.5.5 ;
(e) Applicants having certificates 4.5.1 and 4.5.5.
4.6 Course No. 06 - Hinduism
4.6.1 Three passes in one sitting including one of the  following subjects.– Hinduism, Hindu Civilization and
Sanskrit in the G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012 ;
4.6.2 Candidates having Shaiva Siddhantha Pandithar Certificate ;
4.6.3 Candidates having Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.6.4 Candidates having Ilang Shaiva Pulaver Certificate ;
4.6.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Hinduism.
Note.– Priority order in Selection
(a) Candidates having 4.6.1, 4.6.5 and all other certificates ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.4, 4.6.5 and one certificate out of other two ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.6.1, 4.6.5 and one certificate out of other three ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.6.1., 4.6.5
4.7 Course No. 07 – Islam
4.7.1 Three passes including one of the following subjects :-
Islam, Islamic Civilization and Arabic in the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 ;
4.7.2 Passed all subjects in Al-Alim Preliminary Examination and passed all subjects in Al-Alim Final Examination ;
4.7.3 Passed all subjects Al-Alim Preliminary Examination ;
4.7.4 Having Moulavi Certificate ;
4.7.5 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) core subjects with Tamil Language, Mathematics and Islam.
Note.– Priority order in Selection –
(a) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.2, 4.7.3, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5 ;
(b) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.3, 4.7.4. and 4.7.5 ;
(c) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1, 4.7.4 and 4.7.5 ;
(d) Candidates having certificates 4.7.1 and 4.7.5.
4.8 Course No. 08 – Catholicism/Christianity (Sinhala)
                           Catholicism/Christianity (Tamil)
4.8.1 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in year 2012 and passes in Six core (06) subjects
including Sinhala/Tamil language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
and

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
189
Ordinary Pass for Christianity/Christian Civilization in G . C. E. (A/L) Examination or Credit pass for
Catholicism/Christianity in G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
and
The Certificate of Catholic Bishop for Catholics to be a teacher of Catholicism and the Certificate of National
Christian Council for Christians to be a teacher of Christianity.
4.8.2 Selection of Catholicism Candidates will be made by giving priority in the order of following qualifications :
4.8.2.1 Four Year Course Certificate on Theology (BTH) ;
or
4.8.2.2 Christian Philosophy Certificate conducted by the National Seminary ;
or
4.8.2.3 Three year Religious Education Course Certificate in Deva Dharma Nikethanaya ;
or
4.8.2.4 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the Clergy Sect that the candidate has successfully
completed the study of the Religious Education and Training Course (Novitiate) to become a
member of the clergy ;
or
4.8.2.5 Passed the Catholic Dharmacharya Examination conducted by the National Catechetical Centre
Namely Dharmacharya Hons/(Dahamguru 3) ;
or
Dharmacharya Special (Dahamguru 2) ;
or
Dharmacharya Ordinary (Dahamguru 1) ;
or
4.8.2.6 Passed Christianity/Christian Civilization in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
4.8.3 Selection of Candidates for Christianity will be made according to the qualifications indicated in the following
order :
4.8.3.1 Should have obtained Dharma-V edi Diploma conducted by Lanka Theological College, Pilimathalawa.
4.8.3.2 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge (Dharmacharya) conducted by
National Christianity Council.
Note.–
* Those who anticipate for the Course of Catholicism/Christianity at National Colleges of Education in
2017 in addition to the qualification under Section 4.8.2 the three year certificate from "Aquinas
College of Higher Studies" and the Certificate for Catholic Daham School Final Exam will be considered.
(i) To select 85% from all admissions, Catholic candidates qualified under 4.8.1 will be selected on the
serial order shown under 4.8.2 When 85% of Catholic candidates have not applied, Christian Candidates
will be selected for such vacancies.
(ii) 15% of the total number of admissions will be selected from among Christian Candidates qualified
under 4.8.1 according to the serial order shown under 4.8.3. If 15% Christian Candidates have not
applied, Catholic candidates will be selected for such vacancies.
(iii) 40% of the total number of admissions will be selected from Catholic and Christian Clergy. If the
required percentage 40% of vacancies cannot be filled out of clergy, selection will be made from laity
applicants.
(iv) In case of sufficient applicants of the Clergy who have passed G . C. E. (A/L) in 2012  are not available,
those (clergy), who have passed the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination immediately preceding the Years 2011,
2010, 2009, 2008 and 2007 will be selected considering the closest year to 2012. If 40% of the Clergy
candidates have not applied layman candidates will be selected for such vacancies.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
190
4.9 Course No. 09 – First Language  (Sinhala) :
4.9.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year  2012 in three subjects including a Credit Pass for Sinhala subject ;
and
4.9.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and a Credit Pass in Sinhala Language.
4.10 Course No. 10 – First Language  (Tamil) :
4.10.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 in three subjects including a Credit Pass for Tamil subject. (Two
passes including Tamil only for the estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education, Priority will
be given to those who have a Credit Pass for Tamil Language at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination) ; and
4.10.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core Subjects including Mathematics and a Credit Pass in Tamil Language.
4.11 Course No. 11 - English :
4.11.1 Passed Three Subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2012 including English Language (Not General English)
with credit pass for English Language/Ordinary Pass in English Literature and Six core subjects including Sinhala/
Tamil Language and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/London G. C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
 or
4.11.2 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012  and passed G. C. E. (O/L) examination in
six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics with a Very Good Pass in English Language/
Credit Pass in English Literature.
Note.–
(i) Priority will be given to those who qualify under 4.11.1 in each district. They do not need to sit for the proficiency
test. (Selection will be made according to para 6.1.2) Their qualifications should be proved at the interview. Applicants
who are qualified under 4.11.2 should appear for the Proficiency Test ;
(ii) In case of insufficiency of the number of qualified applicants under 4.11.1, the applicants with qualifications under
4.11.2 will be considered. In case of finding sufficient number of applicants qualified under 4.11.1 in a certain district,
those who appeared for the proficiency test will not be admitted.
4.13 Course No. 13 –  Art (Sinhala)  :
Art (Tamil) :
4.13.1 Passed three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012 including Art ;
and
4.13.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (6) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and Art.
4.13.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Art/Art and Sculpture at G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2012 as per Section 3.4.4.
4.17 Course No. 17 – Music  (Carnatic)
4.17.1 Passed any three subjects including Carnatic Music at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012. (Two passes
including Carnatic music, only for estate workers children for Sri Pada National College of Education) ;
and
4.17.2 Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Tamil Language, Mathematics and Carnatic Music.
4.17.3 An additional mark will be awarded based on the Grade obtained for Carnatic Music in G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in Year 2012 as per Section 3.4.4.
Note.– (If a sufficient number of applicants who have fulfilled the required qualification for Sri Pada National College
of Education are not available, applications will be considered from those who are Indian origins reside in the
estate, have passed G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012 with three subjects including Carnatic Music

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
191
in Tamil medium. If vacancies exist beyond this, estate workers children who have passed G. C. E. (A/L)
examination held in year 2012 with two subjects in one sitting and obtained a Credit Pass for Carnatic Music
in G . C. E. (O/L) examination will be considered for selection.)
4.18 Course No. 18 – Western Music  (English) :
4.18.1 Passed three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012 including Western Music  ;
and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with passes for Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music and, with a Credit Pass for English Language or an Ordinary Pass for English Literature ;
or
4.18.2 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012 ;
and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (6) core subjects with passes in Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and
Western Music with a Credit Pass in English Language or an Ordinary Pass in English Literature. ;
and
Passed Grade five in Western Music (Theory and Practical) from a recognized institute approved by the Colleges of
Education Board. ;
or
Passed Western Music at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination as an additional subject.
Note.–  (i) Applicants should reach a satisfactory level of performance at the practical test conducted for Western Music
Course.
(ii) In selection, priority will be given to applicants qualifying under 4.18.1.
4.20 Course No. 20 - Physical Education (Sinhala) :
Physical Education (Tamil) :
Physical Education (English) :
4.20.1 Passed any three subjects in one sitting at G. C. E. (A/L) examination held in Year 2012 ;
and
4.20.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) examination in six  core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language, Health and Physical
Education and Mathematics ;
and
4.20.3 Achievements/performances of the recognized Track and Field Athletics and Organized Sports. A maximum of
75 marks will be awarded for three various games/events in the following priority order.
PRIORITY ORDER OF SPORTS /EVENTS
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks
1 International Level single —— 1 25
2 International Level single —— 2 24
3 International Level single —— 3 23
4 International Level —— team 1 22
5 International Level —— team 2 21
6 International Level —— team 3 20
7 International Level single team —— 19
  Representation
8 National Level single —— 1 18
9 National Level single —— 2 17
10 National Level single —— 3 16
11 National Level —— team 1 15
12 National Level —— team 2 14
13 National Level —— team 3 13

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
192
14 Provincial Level single —— 1 12
15 Provincial Level single —— 2 11
16 Provincial Level single —— 3 10
17 Provincial Level —— team 1 09
18 Provincial Level —— team 2 08
19 Provincial Level —— team 3 07
20 Regiment Sergeant Major —— —— —— 06
/Warrant Officer 1
21 Presidents’ Scout/Girl Guide —— —— —— 06
22 Sergeant Major /Warrant —— —— —— 05
Officer 2
23 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 1 06
Divisional Secretariat Level
24 District Level/Zonal/ single —— 2 05
Divisional Secretariat Level
25 District Level/Zonal / single —— 3 04
Divisional Secretariat Level
26 District Level/Zonal / —— team 1 03
Divisional Secretariat Level
27 District Level/Zonal / —— team 2 02
Divisional Secretariat Level
28 District Level/Zonal / —— team 3 01
Divisional Secretariat Level
4.20.4 Additional points will be granted for the grade obtained in Health and Physical Education at G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination as given below : .
A Pass -  05
B Pass -  03
C Pass -  02
S Pass -  01
Note.–
(i) Recognized Sports Competitions (International).–  Participation at International Competitions representing
Sri Lanka National Teams or School National Sports Teams (except Chess, Carom and Draught) through
Ministry of Education / Ministry of Sports and their registered Sports Associations. (Participation in
International Competitions on personal basis by school sports teams will not be considered) ;
(ii) Recognized Sports Competitions .– National level competitions organized by the Ministry of Education/
Ministry of Sports/National Youth Services Council ;
Provincial level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education /Provincial Ministry of
Sports /National Youth Services Council ;
District Level Competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education/Provincial Ministry of Sports
/National Youth Services Council ;
Zonal level competitions organized by the Provincial Ministry of Education ;
(iii) 1st, 2nd and 3rd places in “A” Grade Competitions organized by Sports Associations registered  under the
Ministry of Sports and Ministry of Education will only be given priority in order ;
(iv) Certificates gained for Sports performance/achievements within the preceding five years before the closing
date of the application will only be valid ;
(v) Marks will be awarded to the highest certificate obtained for the same event in the same year out of three
certificates.
Se. No. Levels/Subjects Single Team Place/Grade Marks

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
193
4.21 Course No. 21 - Home Economics (Sinhala)
Home Economics (Tamil)
4.21.1 Passed three subjects including Home Economics at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in Year 2012 ; and
4.21.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil Language, Mathematics and a Credit pass
for Science.
4.22 Course No. 22 - Agriculture and Food Technology (Sinhala)
                         Agriculture and Food Technology (Tamil)
4.22.1 Passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012  with Agriculture, Biology and Chemistry ;
and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) in six core (06) subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with Credit passes for
Mathematics and Science.
4.22.2 Passed three subjects including Agriculture/Agricultural Technology/Bio - Resource Technology / Food
Technology at  G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in year 2012 ;
and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) in six (06) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language with Credit passes for
Mathematics, Science and Agriculture/Agriculture and Food Technology.
Note.– Priority order for selection :
(a) Applicants who possess a certificate for successfully completing an Agriculture Course for one year or more
in a recognized Government Agriculture College in addition to 4.22.1 qualifications ;
(b) Applicants qualified under 4.22.1 ;
(c) Applicants qualified under 4.22.2.
4.23 Course No. 23-Technical Studies - Crafts and Art (Sinhala)
Technical Studies - Crafts and Art (Tamil)
4.23.1 Passed any three subjects at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 ;
and
4.23.2 Passed six core subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination including Mathematics and Sinhala/Tamil
Language and Craft and Art/Art and Craft ;
and
4.23.3 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is
relevant to the subject area and formally issued indicating the subject performance level and conducted
by a Government approved Technical College/National Apprentice Board/V ocational Training
Authority/Textile Industries Department/Industrial Development and Enterprise Promotion
Department/Other Institutions Governed by Central/Provincial Ministries.
Note.– (i) Priority Order of selection :
(a)  Applicants having Certificates 4.23.1, 4.23.2 and 4.23.3 ;
(b)  Applicants having Certificates 4.23.1 and 4.23.2.
(i) If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per ( a) is not available, the applicants who have
passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2011 and 2010 will be considered as per ( a). If
further vacancies are available the applicants who have passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination in the
Years 2012, 2011 and 2010 as per (b) will be considered.
(ii) In the application, under the Selection 16.1 it must be clearly indicate the applying  field of the
course as Crafts and Art.

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
194
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the
applications.
4.24 Course No. 24-Design and Technology (Sinhala)
Design and Technology  (Tamil)
4.24.1 Passed three subjects including one of the following components in Hard T echnology at G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in Year 2012 :–
(i) Civil Technology,
(ii) Mechanical Technology,
(iii) Electrical, Electronic and Information Technology ;
or
4.24.2 Passed any three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 ;
and
4.24.3 Passed six (06) core subjects at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination including Mathematics, Sinhala/Tamil Language,
and one subject out of the following subjects, Construction Technology/Mechanical Technology/ Electric and
Electronic Technology/Design and Technology,
and
4.24.4 Followed and successfully completed (in not less than 10 months) a Technical Course which is relevant to the
subject area and formally issued indicating the subject performance level and conducted by a Government
approved Technical College/National Apprentice Board/V ocational Training Authority/Industrial Development
and Enterprise Promotion Department/Other Institutions Governed by Central/Provincial Ministries.
Note.– (i) Priority Order of selection :
(a)  Applicants having Certificates 4.24.1 and 4.24.3 ;
(b)  Applicants having Certificates 4.24.2, 4.24.3 and 4.24.4.
If a sufficient number of qualified applicants as per (a) and (b) are   not available, the applicants who have
passed G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in the Years 2011 and 2010 will be considered as per ( a) and ( b)
mentioned in this Gazette notification.
yyyyy Those who anticipate to apply for the Course of Design and Technology at National Colleges
of Education in 2015 under 4.24.1 should have completed minimum of ten month course
mentioned under 4.24.4 ;
(ii) In the application, under the selection 16.1 it must be clearly indicate the applying field of the course as
Design and Technology ;
(iii) All requirements indicated above should have been completed on or before the closing date of the applications.
4.25 Course No. 25 – Information Communication Technology (English)  :
4.25.1 Passed in any three subjects including Information Communication T echnology at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
held in Year 2012. (Two subjects only including Information Communication Technology for the estate workers
children) ;
and
Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination with six (06) core subjects including Credit pass for English language/an ordinary
pass for English Literature and Information Communication Technology, Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
4.25.2 Passed any three (3) subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (Two (2) subjects only for the estate workers children.)
and
Passed G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and with a credit pass
for English Language/an Ordinary pass for English Literature and Credit pass for Mathematics.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
195
Note.– (i) Priority will be given to the applicants in each district quailfied under 4.25.1 in the selection for the
Information Technology Course. (Selection will be made according to Para. 6.1.2.) They should not appear
for the proficiency test, but should prove qualifications at the interview. Those who are qualified under
4.25.2 should appear for the proficiency test.
(ii) In case of insufficiency of the number of qualified applicants under 4.25.1, the applicants with qualifications
under 4.25.2 will be considered. In case of finding sufficient number of applicants qualified under 4.25.1 in
a certain district, those who appeared for the proficiency test will not be admitted ;
(iii) This test paper is an objective type of 1-1/2 hour question paper.
This test measures competency of the candidate on basic concepts of mathematics necessary to follow the
Information Communication Technology ;
(iv) Applicants shall sit for the Selection Test in Sinhala, Tamil or English medium of study ;
(v) Indicate the preferred medium under para. 1.0 of the application as S/T/E ;
(vi) For Information Communication Technology Course, children of estate employees will be selected on
similar basis of other courses and they should follow the course at Ruwanpura National College of Education.
4.27 Course No. 27 - Business and Accounting (Sinhala)
Business and Accounting (Tamil)
4.27.1 Having three passes in one sitting including Accounting and Business Studies (in the commerce stream) at G . C. E.
(A/L) Examination held in 2012 ;
and
4.27.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and English with at least a
Credit pass for one of these three subjects - Business and Accounting/Entrepreneurship Studies and Mathematics.
4.30 Course No. 30 – Second National Language  (Sinhala) :
4.30.1 Passed G . C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Sinhala ;
and
4.30.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Sinhala Language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Tamil as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Tamil issued by the Official
Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.31 Course No. 31 - Second National Language (Tamil)  :
4.31.1 Passed G .C.E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 in three subjects including a Credit pass in Tamil ;
and
4.31.2 Passed G .C.E. (O/L) Examination in six core subjects including Mathematics and Tamil Language.
Note.– The order of priority will be given to those who have followed Sinhala as a Second National Language at
G . C. E. (O/L) Examination/Second National Language (Advanced) Certificate in Sinhala issued by the Official
Language Department/Optional Second National Language at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination.
4.32 Course No. 32 - Special Education (Sinhala)
Special Education (Tamil)
4.32.1 P assed any Three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination held in Year 2012 ;
and
4.32.2 Passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six  core subjects including Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
196
Note.– The applicants of this course are considered to appoint as teachers to teach those of special educational
needs such as visually-impairments, hearing-impairments, multi-impairments, autism, learning- difficulties
and intellectual deficiencies. Hence, only those who sign an agreement to serve only in these special units
where the impaired children learn, should apply.
5.0 Number of the Course, Name of the Course and the Medium of the National Colleges of Education where each course
will be conducted and the respective number of the NCoE are given below :
Refer the chart carefully and identify the number of your course correctly before filling in the appilcation form. Your applica tion
will be computerized referring to your Course Number. Applications that are filled with incorrect information will be rejected. No
alteration is permitted after your application is sent to the Branch of National Colleges of Education, Ministry of Education.
(i) Column - Course Number ;
(ii) Column - Course Name ;
(iii) Column - NCoEs where Sinhala medium courses are conducted ;
(iv) Column - NCoEs where Tamil medium courses are conducted ;
(v) Column - NCoEs where English medium courses are conducted.
(The numbers of the National Colleges of Education are given within brackets.)
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)
01 Primary Education (2) Nilwala (6) Vavuniya
(4) Sariputta (7) SriPada
(Dambadeniya)
(7) Sripada (8) Addalaichenai
(11) Pulathisipura (9) Batticaloa
(12) Wayamba (15) Jaffna
(13) Ruwanpura (16) Dharga Town
(14) Ruhuna
(17) Hapitigam
02 Science (2) Nilwala (6) V avuniya (2) Nilwala
(5) Siyane (7) SriPada (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (8) Addalaichenai (15) Jaffna
(9) Batticaloa
(15) Jaffna
(2) Nilwala (7) SriPada (2) Nilwala
03 Mathematics (5) Siyane (8) Addalaichenai (5) Siyane
(7) Sri Pada (15) Jaffna (15) Jaffna
05 Buddhism (4) Sariputta
06 Hinduism (6) Vavuniya
07 Islam (8) Addalaichenai
08 Catholicism/Christianity (12) Wayamba (6) Vavuniya
09 First Language (Sinhala) (18) Peradeniya
10 First Language (T amil) (7) SriPada
(16) Dharga Town
(18) Peradeniya
(3) Mahaweli
11 English (10) Pasdunrata
(15) Jaffna
(18) Peradeniya
13 Art (12) Wayamba (9) Batticaloa
17 Music (Carnatic) (7) Sri Pada
(9) Batticaloa
18 Western Music (3) Mahaweli
20 Physical Education (1) Uva (6) Vavuniya (1) Uva

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
197
21 Home Economics (14) Ruhuna (16) Dharga Twon
22 Agriculture and Food Technology (11) Pulathisipura (6) V avuniya
23 Technical Studies - Craft and Art (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
24 Design and Technology (5) Siyane (9) Batticaloa
25 Information Communication Technology (13) Ruwanpura
27 Business and Accounting (19) Maharagama (6) V avuniya
(8) Addalaichenai
30 Second Language (Sinhala) (3) Mahaweli
31 Second Language (Tamil) (3) Mahaweli
32 Special Education (17) Hapitigam (8) Addalaichenai
(15) Jaffna
Note : (i) Only Tamil medium female applicants should apply to Dharga Town National College of Education.
(ii) Courses for Music (Carnatic) will be conducted only in Tamil Medium.
(iii) Courses for Western Music, Information Communication Technology will be conducted only in English Medium.
6.0 Procedure for Selection of Trainees for Year 2014 :
6.1 Basis of Selection :
6.1.1 The number of trainees to be admitted will be decided based on the teacher cadre requirements in the school system in
the year 2017.
6.1.2 The basis of selection other than Catholicism/Christianity (Sinhala Medium) course and Physical Education course
will be the Z score obtained at G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2012 in each district. In the selection for Catholicism/
Christianity (Sinhala Medium) course, the ratio of Catholic population in each district and the order of the Z score.
Students will be selected for Physical Education course on the order of achievements and performances in Sports in
each District. In the selection for the English course, only in case of insufficiency of qualified applicants under 4.11.1
of para. 4.11, the order of proficiency test marks of applicants in each district will be considered. For the Information
Communication Technology course, only in case of insufficiency of qualified applicants under 4.25.1 of para 4.25, the
order of proficiency test marks of applicants in each district will be considered in the selection. In case of selecting on
the basis  of Z score/Proficiency Test or Performance of Sports if there are more applicants in relevant district with the
same Z score proficiency/performance of sprots marks, the results obtained at the G . C. E. (O/L) at the first sitting will
be considered. Marks will be awarded as 04 marks for a distinction pass, 03 marks for a very good pass, 02 marks for
a credit pass and 01 marks for an ordinary pass and the available number of vacancies will be filled based on the total
number of marks obtained. The award of these marks will be limited only for 08 main subjects. If both proficiency/
performance of sports marks and G . C. E. (O/L) marks are the same, Z score for each district will be considered for
selection.
6.1.2.1 New syllabus and old syllabus will be considered separately for the selection of applicants to all NCOEs in
2014.
6.1.3 Applicants from each district who prefer to follow Physical Education, Science, Mathematics, Western Music and
Information Communication Technology in English Medium, Primary Education course in Sinhala/Tamil medium have
to qualify with credit pass for English Language/ordinary pass for English Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination,
Applicants from each district for English Language Course should have obtained a very good pass in English Language
or credit pass in English Literature at G. C. E. (O/L) Examination, Applicants from each district for Business and
Accounting course in Sinhala/Tamil medium have to qualify with ordinary pass for Engilsh Language at G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination including Six (06) core subjects with Sinhala/Tamil Language and Mathematics.
Course NCoEEs by Courses and Name
Number Course Name Sinhala Medium Tamil Medium English Medium
(i) (ii) (iii) (iv) (v)

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
198
6.1.4 Applicants should reach a satisfactory level at the Practical Test from each district conducted for Physical Education,
Music (Karnata) and Western Music courses.
6.2 District Basis :
6.2.1 Determination of districts :
6.2.1.1 The district of any school applicant will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or major part of the Five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the last
day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination at
the first sitting.
6.2.1.2 If any private applicant had left the school after having previously sat the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination as a
school applicant, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school from which he/she had first
sat the above examination.
6.2.1.3 If any private applicant has left the school without having previously sat for the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination
as a school candidate, his/her district will be the district of the location of the school/schools in which he/she
had studied during the entire or the major part of the five years (more than 2 1/2 years) period ending on the
last day of the month immediately preceding the month in which he/she had sat the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
at the first sitting.
6.2.1.4 If any private applicant has not studied in a School, he/she should confirm his/her district of residence with the
V oter's list of Election Commissioners Office or Grama Niladhari and Divisional Secretary’s affidavit.
6.2.1.5 If the expected number from relevant difficult district is not available, vacancies will be filled from nearest
districts.
6.3 Selection for Sri Pada National College of Education :
6.3.1 75% of the vacancies will be filled from applicants of the Indian Tamil Origin and 25% from Sinhalese applicants.
6.3.1.1 On the required number of vacancies prevailing at State-schools in plantation districts, 35% of the candidates
will be appointed to the Moneragala, Badulla and Ratnapura Districts.
6.3.2 Primary, Mathematics and Science Courses will be conducted in the Sinhala Medium whereas Primary, Mathematics,
Science, Music (Carnatic), First Language (Tamil) Courses will be conducted in the Tamil Medium. (These courses
will be offered at SriPada National College of Education.).
6.3.3
6.3.3.1 Applicati ons for admission to Sri Pada National College of Education will be entertained only from children
whose parents are residents employed in the plantation sector in Nuwara Eliya, Kandy, Matale, Badulla,
Moneragala, Ratnapura, Kegalle, Kalutara, Matara, Galle and Kurunegala Plantation Districts. Priority is
given to children of the workers who work at present and estate workers living in estates who worked at least
25 years in the estate sector and retired/passed away/left service on medical, reasons in  between 2003 - 2012
are considered.
6.3.3.2 In case of insufficient number of children of the estate workers as per 6.3.3.1 applicants from the estate
sector, applications from those of the estate workers who worked at least 05 years after 2003 will be
considered although they are not employed at the moment. (Priority is given sequentially as 2012, 2011,
2010.).
6.3.3.3 In case of insufficient number of children, of the estate workers as applicants from the above districts for
Tamil Medium, applicants those who are not children of employees in the plantation sector but Indian Origin
live in above mentioned Districts, will be considered.
6.3.3.4 In case of insufficiency of qualified applicants from Plantation Districts, Tamil Medium applicants who are
from other districts with Indian Origin will be considered.

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
199
6.3.3.5 Tamil Medium Indian Origin applicants those who live in Plantation Districts and other districts should have
passed in three subjects at G. C. E. (A/L) Examination.
6.3.3.6 In case of insufficient number of Sinhala Medium applicants from Plantation Districts, the rest of the
vacancies will be filled from those who applied for the same course in other National Colleges of Education.
The basis of the selection will be the Z-Score.
6.3.4 At the interview the children of the employees in the State and Private Sector Estate Companies should submit a letter
from the Estate Superintendent relating to service (indicating employee’s period of service) that he is permanently
serving for the past period of 05 years or more/retirement from the plantation sector (indicating year and date clearly).
Candidate’s letter agreeing to serve a period of Ten (10) years continuously in the schools in the plantation sector
after the training and letters to prove that deductions are being done for the Employees Provident Fund including
Registration Numbers.
6.3.5 In selection, at least one applicant will be considered for each relevant district.
Note : In the case of an applicant having an Indian Tamil Origin who had studied in Sinhala Medium will be considered
for the percentage entitled to Indian Tamil Origin. Similarly, a Sinhalese applicant who had studied in Tamil
Medium will be considered for the Sinhala Medium percentage.
7.0 Other Matters related to Selection :
7.1 Selected applicants should be prepared to submit acceptable evidence and originals of certificates to confirm their eligibility
on the date of conducting the interview. A number of applicants more than the number of vacancies will be called for the
interview.  Those who fails to report for interview without informing their acceptable reason on time, are considered as
absentees and their opportunity will be filled with next applicant.
7.2 It is mandatory to submit all original certificates at the interview. Those who fail to do so will not be selected.
7.3 When a problematic situation is observed relating to the mental and physical fitness required by an applicant for reaching the
expected level in the Course and the Interview Board is not satisfied of this position he/she should be subjected to a special
interview and after the submission of this report to the Colleges of Education Board the decision taken by the Board/
Secretary, Ministry of Education should be implemented.
7.4 If the selected applicant fails to get registered in the relevant College of Education within 03 days from the due date, he/ she
will be deprived of the opportunity for the admission. The vacancies created thereby, will be filled according to the merit
order in each district.
7.4.1 It is emphasis that there is no any opportunity, for applicants who are not registered within said date.
7.5 Selected applicants are required to appear for a Medical Examination before their admission to a College of Education to
ascertain whether they are physically and mentally fit for service in any part of the Island.
7.6 After the admission to any Course/National College of Education permission will not be granted to change such Course/
College of Education. If a sufficient number of applicants are not available for a particular Course the applicants will be
transferred to the nearest College of Education to follow the same course.
8.0 Persons who are not eligible to apply or to get admitted :
8.1 Those who have already obtained teaching appointments in Government or in Private Schools.
8.2 Those who have been selected for an appointment in a Government School.
8.3 Those who are following or who have followed a Course in a College of Education.
8.4 Those who are following or have followed a Degree Course in a University or University Institute or any other Higher
Education Institute where G . C. E. (A/L) is the entry requirement. (After publishing the Gazette notification, students who
were/are withdrawn the registration will not be eligible to apply/to get admitted).
8.5 Those who have been discontinued from a College of Education on disciplinary ground.

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
200
9.0 Conditions applicable for Training :
9.1 Duration of a Training Course is three years. This period consists of two years residential institutional training in the
National College of Education and one year internship training while being attached to a school. Attendance of a student
teacher should be not less than 90% to enable him/her to sit for the External Final Examination conducted by the Department
of Examinations at the end of the second year.
9.2 Every trainee should pass the Internal Continuous Tests held in the first and the second year, Internal Test conducted at th e
end of the second year and the external final examination conducted by the Department of Examinations. Except, those who
follow English Courses, all those who follow other Courses should pass in the English subject at the above examinations.
Applications should be forwarded only by those who agree to the above conditions.
9.3 During the period of two years residential training a trainee will be provided with meals and lodging facilities to the value of
Rs. 2,500 per month for ten months in a year. During the Internship year a monthly allowance of Rs. 3,000 will be paid for
ten months. Other expenses for personal requirements should borne by the trainee.
9.4 During the period of training, a trainee will not be allowed to follow an Academic Course as an internal student in a
University, University Institution or other Higher Education. If it is proved that a trainee had followed such a Course or
leave the course before three year period without completing the course the amount spent on the trainee will be surcharged
and the registration will be cancelled.
9.5 If the trainees get married during the training period, the studentship will be cancelled. Those who married and provide
various reasons and getting divorcements also will not be given studentship. The clergy of any religion should make bond and
agreement with the Ministry of Education on at least 5 years service without being disrobed.
9.6 If a trainee fails to exhibit the progress expected in his general conduct, enthusiasm and in his studies during the period of
training he will be removed from training. Likewise, those who do not reach a satisfactory level in the assessment during the
first year of academic training or found to be following any other Course in an Institute as indicated at 9.4 they will be
removed from the Course. Regarding these matters the decision made by the Colleges of Education Board Secretary,
Ministry of Education shall be the final decision.
9.7 If any complaints are received relating to the physical and mental fitness of the trainee either by the President of the College
during the period of training or by the Principal of the school during the Internship period the trainee will be referred to a Special
Interview Board. A final decision will be taken after the submission of. This report to the Colleges of Education Board/
Secretary, Ministry of Education.
9.8 National Diploma in Teaching will be awarded to the trainees who will successfully complete the Training Course. Course
Work and Personality Development (inclusive of compulsory co-curricular activities) will be continuously assessed during
the period of training and this assessment will form a component of the final assessment in awarding the Diploma.
9.9 Applicants successfully completing this Course will be considered for grant of appointments as teachers based on the
availability of vacancies on Divisional Secretariat Level in Districts.
9.9.1 Trainees who follow the course, Physical Education, Mathematics, Science in English Medium are appointed to
the Schools which do not have English medium Vacancies, should teach in their Mother Tongue. (Sinhala/Tamil)
9.9.2 Priority will be given to those who complete this Training Course in awarding teaching appointments for Government
Schools in future. Therefore the candidates who are invited for the interviews for selecting to the above course
should appear for the interview only if would agree to the above conditions.
9.9.3 Applicants who receive their training under the above conditions should teach the same subject that they followed.
In addition have to enter into Bond and Agreement with the Secretary of the Ministry of Education that they will
serve under the Ministry of Education for a minimum period of five (05) years from the date of appointment in the
district selected for National College of Education they have been appointed. The Secretarial division for which the
appointment has been given will not be changed for any reason.

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
201
9.10 Applicants who get registered in a National College of Education should sign an Agreement and a Bond for Rs. 500,000 for
the cost to be incurred for providing training and for supply of infrastructure facilities. Those who fail to serve for five years
under the Government will be subjected to a condition for paying the total amount in the Bond and Agreement to the
Government.
9.11 If any applicant claims to change the selected National College of Education on medical/personal reasons will not be eligible
for admission.
9.12 All Educational and Other Qualifications should have been completed on or before the last date of calling for applications.
10.0  Application :
10.1 An Applicant can apply for a maximum of 03 courses. If applied for the same course in two media, it is considered as applied
for two courses. Such applicant can apply only for one more courses. Buddhist monks should apply for the Course of
Buddhism whereas the clergy of Christianity, Hinduism and Islam for their respective courses of religions.
Example : If a candidate applied for science course both in English Medium and Sinhala Medium he can only apply for
one more courses.
10.2 An Applicant can enclose only one application. If any applicant sent more than one application all the applications will be
rejected. Applicants for Physical Education, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism/Christianity, Technical Studies, Craft
and Art, Design and Technology, Western Music must enclose two certified photocopies of the application in the same
envelope and submit.
10.3 Application should be prepared according to the Specimen Form and instructions given below.
10.4 Applications should be sent under Registered Post and addressed to Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education), Colleges of
Education Branch, Ministry of Education, Isurupaya, Battaramulla to be received on or before 21.02.2014.
Specimen of the envelope in which the application is enclosed should be as follows :
Application for Admission to National Colleges of Education 2014
Course Number indicated as first preference .......... Medium ................
Apply to the Sri Pada National College of Education Yes/No
New/Old Syllabus
Chief Commissioner (Teacher Education),
Colleges of Education Branch,
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla.
(It is stressed that applications should not be sent to Department of Examinations/National Colleges of Education).
10.5 It is compulsory to keep a photocopy of completed application by the applicant. The postal receipt of registration issued
in forwarding the application and a photo copy of the application should be submitted in all instances of making inquiries
or submitting appeals. Hence, these documents should be kept with the candidate.
10.6 Applications which do not clearly indicate the Index Number, Year and Course Number as well as the incomplete and
informal applications will be rejected.
10.7 Applications will not be acknowledged.
10.8 No other document should be attached to the application.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
202
10.9 If any certificate submitted by the candidate is revealed later to be a forged or fraudulent certificate, the candidate wil l be
dismissed from service and he will be ineligible for any post in Public Service.
11.0 Regarding any problems arising with regard to the above information in this Gazette Notification the decision of the Colleges of
Education Board will be the final decision.
12.0 In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and Tamil or English Texts of this Gazette Notification, the Sinhala Text shall
prevail.
ANURA DISSANAYAKE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
17th January, 2014.
INSTRUCTIONS    FOR    THE    PREPARATION  OF   APPLICATION    FORM
1.0 Read the Gazette Notification very carefully. Apply only three courses to which you are eligible in one application. Applicants
applying for the Physical Education, Buddhism, Hinduism, Islam, Catholicism,/Christianity, Technical Studies - Craft and Art,
Design and Technology, Western Music courses must enclose two certified photocopies of the application along with original
application in the same envelope and submt. (School applicants should get the photo copies certified by the Principal while the
private applicants should get them certified by a Justice of the Peace).
2.0 Application should be prepared in a (Legal) F5 size white paper (21.8 x 33c.m.) in conformity with the specimen form.
Paragraphs 1.0 to 9.5 should be included in the first page. In places where information has to be given in a cage, mark “ X” in
the relevant cage.
3.0 Please note that the Computer Data relating to each Course used for calling applicants for the interview are prepared based on the
information given from 1.0 to 9.5 in the first page. Specially the Course Number, District according to 6.2.1, Index Number of
G. C. E. (A/L) and Z Score should be confirmed as accurate. Please note that the application is liable to be rejected owing to
overlapped writing and illegible and erroneous writing.
4.0 The information given in paragraph 12.0 for Physical Education Course, Paragraph 13.0 for Buddhism Course, Paragraph 14.0
for Catholicism /Christianity Course, Paragraph 15.0 for Hinduism/Islam Course, Paragraph 16.0 for Technical Studies - Craft and
Art/Design and Technology Course and Paragraph 17.0 for Western Music Course should be considered carefully in filling the
application. The information specified will not be changed under any circumstances.
5.0 Numbers assigned to the districts related to paragraph 6.2 are indicated below  :
Colombo – 01 Hambantota – 09 Amparai – 17
Gampaha – 02 Jaffna – 10 Puttalam – 18
Kalutara – 03 Kilinochchi – 11 Kurunegala – 19
Matale – 04 Mannar – 12 Anuradhapura – 20
Kandy – 05 Mullativu – 13 Polonnaruwa – 21
Nuwara Eliya – 06 Vavuniya – 14 Badulla – 22
Galle – 07 Trincomalee – 15 Moneragala – 23
Matara – 08 Batticaloa – 16 Kegalle – 24
Ratnapura – 25
6.0 Symbol for each Medium : Sinhala - S, Tamil - T, English - E
7.0 Town name and number where the examination scheduled to be conducted given below to fill paragraph 1.0 for the use of the
applicants for English (Coure No. 11) and Information Communication Technology (Course No. 25)

<!-- page 35 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
203
Colombo – 01 T angalle – 09 Ampara – 17
Gampaha – 02 Jaffna – 10 Chilaw – 18
Kalutara – 03 Kilinochchi – 11 Kurunegala – 19
Matale – 04 Mannar – 12 Anuradhapura – 20
Kandy – 05 Mullativu – 13 Polonnaruwa – 21
Nuwara Eliya – 06 Vavuniya – 14 Badulla – 22
Galle – 07 Trincomalee – 15 Moneragala – 23
Matara – 08 Batticaloa – 16 Kegalle – 24
Ratnapura – 25
If there are no sufficient number of applicants for an examination center in a District, those applicants will be sent to a nea rest
Examination center.
Specimen Application Form
ADMISSION TO NATIONAL COLLEGES OF EDUCATION - 2014
(Applicants should forward their necessary applications according to the Section 10.2 of Gazette notification. Applications which are not
prepared in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected. Details up to paragraph 09 in the application should be include d in the
first page. Computer data required for the selection interview will be prepared out of the information given from 1.0 - 9.5).
1.0
Preference Course College Course Medium Course Number (25) and the medium Town Number to
Number Number S/T/E of the examination (S/T/E) sit 11/25 Exam
1
2
3
2.0 2.1 Name with initials in English (In Block letters) Example : PERERA R. C.
Mr./Miss :–––––––––––.
2.2 Name in full in English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
3.0 Permanent residential address :
  In English (In Block letters) :–––––––––––.
Telephone No. :–––––––––––.
4.0 According to para 6.2.1 in Gazette Notification :
District :–––––––––––. District No. :
5.0 5.1 Date of Birth :
Year : Month :  Date :
5.2 National Identity Card No.  :
6.0 Sex : Male 1 Female   2
7.0 Ethnicity :
Sinhalese Sri Lankan Tamil Indian Tamil Muslim Others
12 3 4 5
8.0 Results of G. C. E. (A/L) in Year 2012 :  (1. New Syllabus/ 2. Old Syllabus)
8.1 Year : Medium of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.2 Index No. : Attempt of the Examination :––––––––––.
8.3 Z Score  :                 If Z is minus indicate : M
.

<!-- page 36 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
204
8.4 Details of results subject wise :
Subject Subject No. Grade
1. ........................ ........................ ........................
2. ........................ ........................ ........................
3. ........................ ........................ ........................
9.0 9.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for English and English medium Courses at the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination for
English Language and English Literature Subject No. :
Year :
Index No.
9.2 Are you applying to Sri Pada National College of Education ? Y es 1 No 2
9.3 If yes indicate whether you are a state worker’s child by marking ( ‘ X’ in the relevant cage) :
Yes 1 N o 2
9.4 Total marks included for section 12.0 in the application by applicants for Physical Education Sinhala/Tamil :
9.5 9.5.1.1 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Sinhala) Medium Courses at the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Tamil) : Subject No. :
9.5.1.2 The highest grade obtained by applicants for Second National Language (Tamil) Medium Courses at the G . C. E.
(O/L) Examination for Second Language (Sinhala) : Subject No. :
10.0 If you have sat the G. C. E. (A/L) examination prior to year 2012, please indicate details in full in each sitting even if you
appeared for only one subject :
10.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2
10.2 Y ear ........... ..............
10.3 Index No. ........... ..............
10.4 Examination Center No. ........... ..............
10.5 Z Score ........... ..............
10.6 Subjects passed and grades
First Sitting Second Sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
................... .................... .................. ....................
11.0 Details of G . C. E. (O/L) passed :
11.1 Number of sittings for the examination 1 2 3
11.2 Y ear .............. ............. ..............
11.3 Index No. .............. ............. ..............
11.4 Examination Centre No. .............. ............. ..............

<!-- page 37 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
205
11.5 Subjects and Grades passed
1st sitting 2nd sitting 3rd sitting
Subject Grade Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
2. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
3. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
4. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
5. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
6. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
7. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
8. ......................... .................. ................. ................. ................. ..................
12.0 Particulars of sports competency according to the Clause 4.20.3 and 4.20.4 in Para. 4.20 of the Gazette Notification :
(Only those who apply for Physical Education Course should complete). It is necessary to give your attention to all the
Clauses in 4.20.3 when you complete this part. Particulars of only highest three sports certificates/competency will be
sufficient.
If you have passed Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L) Examination, state the relevant mark according to the
grade as in 4.20.4, must be mentioned below.
The total number of marks of your competency on sports should be included in 9.4 in the first page of this application.
Certificate of sports competency :
No. Year Ministry/Institute/ Represented for Event/Sports Place Relevant
Clubs issued Competitions-International/ obtained Marks for
National/Provincial/District/ 4.20.3
Zonal
1
2
3
If you sat for Health and Physical Education in G . C. E. (O/L), Grade          Marks
Total Marks
13.0 Results (if any) of Pracheena Preliminary, Bauddha Dharmacharya, Pirivena Final Examination according to 4.5 of the Gazette
Notification :
Examination Pracheena Bauddha Pirivena Final Daham Pasal
Preliminary Dharmacharya Final
13.1 Y ear
13.2 Index No.
13.3 Center No.
13.4 Subject 1 1 1
Grade 2 2 2
33 3
44 4
55
66
7
8
9
10
11

<!-- page 38 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
206
14.0 The applicant of Catholicism/Christianity should fill the relevant part according to para 4.8 of the Gazette Notification.
Duration
Name of  the Course/Certificate
From  To Grade
14.1 Degree in Theology (BTH)
14.2 Philosophy Certificate (BPH) conducted by the National and Seminary
14.3 Dharmachariya Certificate conducted by the National Catechetical center
14.4 Three year religious education course in Deva Dharma Niketanaya
14.5 Certificate issued by Superior or relevant Bishop of the clergy sect that
the candidate has successfully completed the study of  the religious
education and training course (Novitiate) or become a member of the clergy
14.6 Should have obtained Dharma Vedi Diploma conducted by Theological
College Pilimatalawa
 14.7 Should have obtained National Certificate on Religious Knowledge
conducted by National Christian Council
14.8 Certificate issued by relevant Bishop be a religious Teacher of Catholicism
or Christianity
14.9 Obtained a pass in G . C. E. (A/L) for Christianity/Christian Civilization
15.0 The applicants of Hinduism/Islam  should fill the necessary particulars according to section 4.6 and 4.7 of the Gazette Notification :
Name of the Course Duration V alid Date of the Certificate
16.0 The applicants of Technical Skills Courses 4.23/4.24 should fill the necessary particulars according to the Gazette Notification.
16.1 In the application clearly indicate the applying field of the course whether the course as Crafts and Art or Design and
Technology :––––––––.
16.2 The applicants who have successfully completed a Technical Course in a recognized Government Institute and hope to
follow the Technical Studies - Craft and Art, Design and Technology Course Para. 4.23.3/4.24.4 should fill in the following
table :
Name of the Registration Number Institute that Duration Whether successfully
Technical in Government and conducted the completed the course
Course the Date valid Course
17.0 Applicants for the Western Music course should include relevant particulars on compertencies related to Music as per the te rms
of Para. 4.18.1 and 4.18.2 in the Gazette Notification :
Year Institute issuing Certificate Proficiency/class passed

<!-- page 39 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'01'31
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.01.2014
207
18.0 Declaration of the Applicant :
(i) I have forwarded my application in accordance with Section 10.2 of the Gazette Notification.
(ii) I certify that the particulars furnished in the application by me are true and correct. I am aware that if any particulars given
by me in this application are found to be false or incorrect, I am liable to be disqualified if detected before selection or to be
discontinued if detected after selection.
(iii) I declare that I have not applied for University admission and that I am not registered for following a course in a University/
University Institute/affiliated University College/any other Higher Education Institute.
–––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
19.0 Declaration by the Head of School/Pirivena in respect of School/Pirivena applicants :
I certify that this applicant sat G . C. E. (O/L) examination and G . C. E. (A/L) Examination/Pracheena Preliminary Final Examination
as a student of this School/Pirivena and that the particulars given above by the applicant are correct according to my knowledge and
that the  Z-Score ...................... (write in words) obtained by the applicant at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination (New/Old Syllabus)
in the year ...................... is, in accordance with the official result sheet issued by the Commissioner-General of Exami nation.
––––––––––––,
Signature of the Principal/Head of the Pirivena.
Name of Principal of School/Head of Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Name and address of School/Pirivena :–––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––.
20.0 Declaration in respect of Private Applicants :
I certify that the Z-Score obtained by me in the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination (New/Old Syllabus) in the year ............ is .... .........
(write in words) in accordance with the Official result sheet issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations, is ........................
–––––––––––,
Applicant’s signature.
Date :–––––––––––.
Signed before me.
–––––––––––,
Signature of Justice of the Peace.
Name :–––––––––––,
Official Frank :–
Date :–––––––––––.
01–935
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.