

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
AtteNtIoN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  01st Junuary,  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 18th  December , 2020.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2020.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province  ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 2
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"206- 2020 foieïn¾ ui 11 jeks isl=rdod - 2020'12'11
No. 2,206 - FRiDAy ,  DECEMBER  11, 2020
                                
1


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2020'12'11
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 11.12.2020
2
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General :4/10/57167.
Ref. No. of Provincial  Land Commissioner : 
m<d;a$bfld$b9$l,a$§' n'30'
notIfIcatIon  under state land 
regulatIon no. 21(2)
It is here noticed that isuru Lanka  Saltner (Private)Ltd 
has requested the state land  allotment in extent of  19.1211 
Hectares (47  acres 01 rood) depicted as  Lot No. zzwZZ in 
the  plan Pu/Kal/2015/41 surveyed and  prepared by the  
Government Surveyor  and situated  in the  village of Daluwa 
of  No. 605/A Daluwa Grama Niladhari division  which  
belongs to Kalpitiya Divisional Secretary's division  in District 
of Puttalam  on lease  for  a  salt production  project.    
02. The  boundaries  of the  Land  requested are given below :
Lot No zzwZZ
On the North by 
:  Lagoon reserve and canal. 
On the East by : Lagoon reserve and  scrub (state)  ;
On the South by :  Scrub (state) B. A. D. R. Gamini 
(Wettihenyaya) and  road   ;
On the West by :  B. A. D. R. Gamini (Wettihenyaya)
 road and canal. 
03.The requested land can be granted lease for the
necessary purpose. Therefore, the government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other government approved 
conditions  and the  following conditions: 
(a) Term of lease.- Thirty (30) years (from 08.07.2020
onwards)
(b) The Annual  amount of the lease .-  in the instances
where  the valuation of land in the year  of 2020 is
less than  five million rupees (Rs. 5,000,000) 2% of
the  market value of the land  in the  said year as per
the valuation of the Chief Valuer. 
in the instances
where the valuation of land  in the  effective  year
of lease  is more than five million rupees  (Rs.
5,000,000) 4% of  the  market value of the  land  in
the  said  year, as per  the valuation  of the  Chief
Valuer. This amount of  the  lease must be  revised
in  every five years and the revision shall be added
a 20% of the  amount that  just preceded.
Premium .- Not levied
(c) The lessees  must not use the said  land for any
purpose whatsoever other than a salt production
project.
(d) The lessees must within a period of  the one
(01) year from the date of commencement of the
lease, develop the said land  to the satisfaction  of
the  Provincial Land Commissioner/Deputy land
Commissioner/Divisional Secretary.
(e) This lease shall also be subject to the other special
conditions imposed by the Provincial  Land
Commissioner/ Divisional Secretary and other
institutes.
(f)  Existing/constructed  buildings must be maintained
in a  proper state of repair.
(g) If the  lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for
which  the land  was  obtained within the  specified
period  of time, steps  will be taken to cancel the
agreement of lease.
(h) No permission will be granted, until expiry of 5
years from  the date 08.07.2020 for  subleasing  or
assigning.
(i) Payment of the lease rental  must be regularly made
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso
facto lapse.
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing 
within six weeks of  the date which this  Notice is published 
in the  Gazette   to the effect  that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land shall be leased out as requested.
D. M. U. P. K. UDageDara,
Assistant Land Commissioner,
For Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General's Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
“Mihikatha Medura”, 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla.
23
rd October, 2020.
12-149
miscellaneous lands notices
PRiNTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRiNTiNG,  SRi  LANKA.