

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
w;s úfYI
wxl 1698$11 - 2011 ud¾;= ui 22 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2011'03'22
No. 1698/11  -  TUESDAY ,   MARCH  22,  2011
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
UV A  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Council Sports Statute No. 07 of 2010 of the Uva Province Provincial Council
THE above Statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 09th of December 2010, has
been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 21st of February 2011 and which is hereby published
for the notification of the public.
K. D. SIRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
Kings Street,
Badulla,
25th February 2011.
UVA  PROVINCIAL  SPORTS  PRECEPT  No.  07  OF  2010
This precept is specially designed to amend the Uva provincial Sports precept No. 02 of 1997, to
form and register sports clubs and divisional, district and provincial sports societies, sports boards, a
provincial sports fund and sports centers to provide legal statute regarding the facts relevant in developing
and encouraging sports, providing sports facilities, planning and organizing integrated sports activities
and enjoyable games.
This precept is in accordance with sports Act, No. 25 of 1973.
This precept will take effect from the date approved by the Governor of Uva province, Pre-passed
by the Uva 
Province provincial council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri lanka as “The Uva Provincial
Sports Precept No. 7 of 2010”.
1. This precept will be called as “The Sports precept No. 07 of 2010”.
2. According to the rules and regulations in serial order in the precept , the following could be
formed to carryout the matters included in the precept.
Full name
Name in brief

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
2A
1. The sports board of Uva province District Sports boards , Divisional sports boards.
2. Sports clubs of the province, districts and divisions. ( Number of clubs, as decided by the
Minister)
3. A separate fund in the provincial fund itself by the name of “ The Provincial Sports fund
of Uva Province”
4. A sports academy according to the decisions of the Minister
3. The Provincial director of sports
1. A senior officer of the provincial public service, engaged in the sports field and who
should be responsible to carryout the duties and work assigned by the Minister in
accordance with regulations stated in the percept, should be appointed as the director of
sports by the Governor of Uva province.
2. In implementing his powers and duties, the Director of sports should keep to the normal
and special orders issued by the Minister and the secretary.
4. Asst. Director of sports
1. An assist director of sports will be appointed by the governor to assist the provincial
director of sports
P
ART  I
ESTABLISHMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF THE PROVINCIAL SPORT FUND
5. A fund named “The Uva Provincial Sports Fund Account” which will be called hereupon as
“Fund Account” may be formed a separate account in the Provincial Fund itself to aid,   encourage,
develops sports within Uva Province.
6. Under the Minister’s Orders he could appoint an authorized committee to handle the Fund
Account and that committee should compromise of the following :-
1. Chairman of the committee should be the secretary of the Ministry
2. Asst. chief secretary- Finance
3. The Accountant of the Ministry
4. The provincial director of sports.
5. A member from the Provincial Sports Board.
7. How the Fund Account develops:-
1. From all the money allocated by Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, from time to
time as aid to sports of Uva Province
2. From all the money that may be passed by Uva 
Province Provincial council for accounting
in the Fund Account.
3. Money that the government allocates under Section 22 of the Provincial Council Act,
received as foreign aid to the government.
4. Money that aided to the Fund Account by any organization, firm or person.
5. From all the money received in any other way.
8. Although it is thus, money that received under certain conditions of allocating it, acceptance of
it should be under the Minister’s decision.
Deposits to the
fund Account
Appointment of
the provincial
director of
sports
Asst. director of
sports
Administrating
of fund Account

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
9. The Minister is entitled to accept a certain movable or immovable assets received as aid
according to the regulations of this precept, to use for the particular purpose it was received for.
10. Any asset received thus, may be sold as decided by the minister and that money received may
be deposited in the Fund Account.
11. Amount of payments released from the fund account, by the authorities should be as follows:-
1. Offering an allowance to present and past sports men/ women who have got awarded in
sake of sports.
2. As substance to those who shows efficiency at national and international levels, resided
within the province of uva.
3. As help to reduce the expenditure of sports men / women of uva province they spare when
they compete abroad.
4. To reward awards and subsistence to sports officers, coaches, judges and others who
have done special service to uplift the sports field of uva province.
5. As expenditure of those who are engaged in the sports field, participating at foreign
sports training and seminars of judges.
6. As expenditure to establish, maintain, modify or develop sports developing and training
institutions, sports training centers,  sports grounds  and  sports  complex.
7. To unsure participants of sports.
8. To invest as a  fix  deposit  in  a  bank , Government  credit  bonds  or in  any  other  way  the
authorized  committee decides.
9. To implement  or  empower  the  values  and  regulations  in  this  precept.
10. To  all  other  matters  that  the  minister  decides  to  be  done  in  sake  of  high  standard
of  sports  in  the  province.
12. Responsibilities and duties of the authorized committee:-
1. Administrating and authority of the Fund Account.
2. Prepare policies and conditions in collecting and utilizing fund
3. Identifying beneficiaries
4. Collecting money to the fund
5. Approving payments done through the fund
6. Purchasing assets and investing.
7. Annual management report of the account must be submitted to the Minister within 03
months after every calendar year.
13. It is the duty & the secretary of the ministry to forward the final accounts report to the auditor
general before 31st of March after each calendar Year. If the secretary of the ministry feels, he should
arrange an additional audit.
1. The administration of the Fund Account should be with alterations in accordance with the
rules and regulations of part (ii) of the finance Act, No.38 of 1971,
2. Calendar year should be the year of the Fund Account.
14. An annual report of administration of the fund account and a copy of the annual audit report
along with the report about that audit report of auditor general could be forwarded by the minister to the
chief minister of the provincial council.
Aid renewed as
movable/
immovable
assets
Responsibilities
of the
committee of
the fund account
4 - PG  001228

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
4A
Part  II
Establishment of provincial, District and divisional sports Boards
15. Hereupon a board named as “The Provincial Sports Board” should be  established to counce
and assist the Minister in the matters of upholding, developing  and encouraging sports and physical
education within the province of Uva.
16. Contents of the provincial sports board.
1. contents of the provincial sports board would be as follows :
i. The chief Secretary of Uva province or an officer nominated by him.
ii. District secretaries
iii. The secretary in charge of the subject of sports in the province
iv. Provincial director of sports
v. Provincial director of physical Education
vi. Provincial director of health services
vii. Provincial director of Youth services
viii. Commissioner of Local Government of the province
ix. District sports Officers
x . D I G of police – Uva
xi. 04 representatives in the field of sports identified by the Minister from District or
Divisional Boards
xii. 03 members of the Uva provincial council nominated  by the Minister
2. The chief secretary of Uva province will be the chairman of the provincial sports board
and the Secretary incharge of sports will be the secretary of the provincial sports board,
officially.
17. Responsibilities of the Provincial Sports board
1. preparing and co-coordinating the sports programme of uva province
2. Providing enjoyable sports facilitates
3. counselling the Minister in forwarding, organizing and smooth implementation of the
sports programme
4. Counselling the Minister to indentify most talented sports men/women in uva province
and to award them and aid them and to take necessary steps to uplift qualities of the
officers in sports field
5. Counselling the Minister to maintain high standards of sports training avoid false character
and maintain good discipline in sports. And also counselling the Minister to distribute
sports equipment evaluate and implement the projects proposed to develop sports
activities, organize provincial sports meets and to promote sportsmen-women to participate
in national and international sports events
6. Counselling the Minister to strengthen the sports clubs and societies, provide infrastructure
to develop sports
18. A sports board can be formed by the name of “The district sports board” for each administrative
district in the province in accordance with the rules and regulations of the precept under approval of the
provincial sports board, to counce the Minister in uplifting, developing and administrating sports and
physical education in the administrative districts of uva province.
Establishment of
uva provincial
sports board
Contents of  the
uva provincial
sports board
Establishing
District sports
board
Responsibilities
of the
Provincial
Sports board
Responsibilities
of uva Sports
board

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
19. contents of the district sports boards
1. The district sports board would comprise as follows
a. District secretary / G A
b. Divisional secretaries of the district
c. District sports Officer
d. Asst. Director of education (physical education)
e. District youth services officer
f. Sports officers of the district
g. Senior superintendent of police
h. One member from each organization registered according to serial No. 17 of the
precept.
i. Two members from the sports field, nominated by the Minister
2. The district secretary of the relevant district would be the chairman and the district sports
officer would be the secretary of the district sports board, officially.
20. Responsibilities of the district sports board would be as follows :
1. coordination among the divisional sports boards
2. Counselling the Minister through the provincial sports board to promote and develop the
quality of sports among divisional sports boards.
3. Developing the talents of sportsmen/women of the district, with the influence of the
Minister.
4. Organizing district level sports meets and forward the best athlete to participate at the
provincial sports competitions
5. organize and carryout the orders given (by the Minister) according to the rules and
regulations of the precept,
21. A divisional sports board could be established for each divisional secretarial area in the
province, to council the provincial sports board to promote and develop the sports field and to
encourage for sports within the divisional secretarial area.
22. Contends of the divisional sports board.
1. The divisional sports board consist of the following officers :-
i. The divisional secretary of the relevant divisional secretarial area.
ii. The sports officer of the relevant divisional secretarial area.
iii. The secretary of the relevant local government in institute.
iv. Youth services officer of the relevant D.S.area.
v. O.I.C.of the police station of the area.
vi. Two persons engaged in the sports field nominated by the minister.
vii. Physical education teacher adviser of the particular D S area.
2. The divisional secretary of the relevant secretarial area will be the chairman and the sports
officers of the relevant division will be the secretary of the divisional sports board by
official capacity.
23. Responsibilities of the divisional sports board.
1. Responsibilities and work capacity of the Divisional Sports Board should be decided and
ordered by the minister under the regulations included in the precept.
2. Carryout activities to uplift the talents and the sports men /women of the division with
awareness of the minister.
Contents of
District sports
boards
Responsibilities
of District
sports board
Contents of
Divisional sports
board
Establishment
of Divisional
sports board
Responsibilities
of the Divisional
sports board

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
6A
3. Organizing divisional sports meets, matches and tournaments within the divisional
secretarial area, and forwarding the sportsmen/women cleverest to the district levels.
4. Preparing and implementing of objects and matters in accordance with the regulations in
this statute, ordered by the Hon. Minister.
24. Orders relevant to administrate the work of the province, district and  divisional sports boards:-
1. Rules and regulations to hold bound meetings should be designed by the sports boards
under the knowledge of the minister.
25. Disqualification to hold membership of sports boards as thus:-
1. A person, decided by a court as a lunatic.
2. A person decided by court as a disable.
3. A person punished by court for an offence.
4. A person engaged in business supplying any facilities, equipment or services to the
sports field in Any capacity.
5. A member of parliament, provincial council or local government authorities.
26. The period of the membership of the sports boards members.
1. If not for the membership is cancelled due to naming by the minister, the death or resigning,
the period  of membership shall be for 03 years.
2. The minister is liable to cancel without reasoning the membership of a person appointed
by  himself.
3. A member can be reappointed though his period of membership is over.
4. A person appointed to membership due to an occurred vacancy, his duration of membership
would be to complete the period lift by the prior member.
Part III
Establishing Sports Clubs and Sports Societies within the Uva Province
27. The Minister may name, under the rules and regulations published in the gazette, a game or a
group of games so as to one sports society may be formed for each district and the province
on behalf of that particular game or the group of games.
28. When a game or a group of games was named thus above:-
1. All sports clubs and the district sports societies should apply to the Provincial Director of
sports, if they wish to get aid by the provincial ministry or Provincial Sports Board.
2. If there is any provincial sports society already in operation relating to a particular game
or a group of games, that society must apply for registration according to under mentioned
rules and regulations in this precept.
3. If unsatisfied about the registration, he may appeal to the Minister within 30 days.
29. Rejecting, banning & cancelling of registrations of sports clubs and sports societies.
1. When reported that of corruption, misconduct or malpractice members, or officers that of
a sports club or a sports society, the secretary of the ministry or his authorized officer can
allocate a time frame for remedy in writing to that relevant sports organization and if failed
duly, or
Orders to
administrate
sports board
Disqualifications
of sports board
membership
Membership
period
Forming sports
clubs and
societies
Registrations of
sports clubs and
societies
Rejecting
banning
cancelling of
registration

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
i. Neglecting, disharmony or disturbance in implementing policies of the sports ministry
or
ii. A sports club or society neglecting its duties or work capacity or refusing registration,
The minister is entitled to reject, ban or cancel registration of that particular club or
association.
2. The minister is entitled to apply temporary remedy to continue work of any sports
organization that has got cancelled, banned or rejected its registration.
3. An unregistered sports organization shall not be entitled to obtain any aid given under
this precept.
4. When the registration of a certain sports club or a sports society is cancelled, banned or
rejected, the minister is entitled to order that club or society to handover its movable and
immovable asset to officials appointed by him through relevant ordinance, within a
prescribed period.
30. The Minister is entitled to declare orders relating to sports clubs and societies as follows:-
1. The fee due to registration of sports organizations.
2. Contents and establishment of sport organizations.
3. Duties, powers and activities of sports clubs and associations
4. procedure of appealing against decisions or work procedures of sports clubs and societies
PART   IV
Establishing a scheme of scholarships and a sports academy.
31. The Minister is entitled to form a scholarships scheme on the following aims.
1. To develop knowledge of Sports, Physical education and enjoyable games.
2. To select persons  with talents  of sports and set them opportunities to get their skills
developed.
3. To  provide  facilities  of  relevant  technical  training  for  maximum  development  of
abilities.
32.  The Minister would declare orders regarding the scheme and procedure of awarding
scholarships.
33.  The  Minister  may  establish  a  sports  developing and  training  institution  which  will  be
called  as  “The  sports  Academy, hereupon, for  the  purpose  of  the following”.
34.  Responsibilities and activities of the sports Academy.
1. Providing Knowledge, instructions and training in sports and physical education.
2. Holding  examinations  to  evaluate  the  progress  of  the  trainees  of  the  academy.
3. Issuing  certificates  to  those  who  pass the  examinations  held  by  the  sports  academy.
4. Training instructors of physical education.
35. Procedure of entrance to the sports academy.
1. The  procedure  of  entrance, education, training and  evaluation  should  be  designed  by
the  provincial Sports  Board  from  time  to  time.
2. The Minister is entitled to declare order to arrange necessary regulations.
i. To put up buildings and maintain  them, supply equipment to them. supply  room  for
training  and  hostel  facilities and  supply other necessacities  of the sports academy.
ii. To maintain discipline and welfare of trainees of the academy.
iii. To offer certificates.
Rejecting
banning
cancelling of
registration
Scheme of
Scholarship
Establishing the
academy of
sports

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'03'22
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 22.03.2011
8A
36.   The Minister would  decide  with  the  consent  of  the provincial council, to pay a subsidiary
to officers  outside the ministry, who render service to the institutes operated under this
precept.
PART   V
Offences and penal
37. If any rule or regulation of this precept is broken, neglected or ignored, or disturbed one’s
work entrusted under this precept and supplying false data to consume services supplied
under this precept, will be an offence.
1. A person who is guilty for above offences in front of a magistrate will be sentenced for a
fine of Rs. 5000.00 or six months period in jail or both penals.
2. The Hon. Minister should withhold functioning of the establishment which is not
functioning according to the orders of this statute or breaking, neglecting, ignoring any
order of this statute.
PART   VI
Common rules and regulation
38.  The minister should construct rules and regulations for all matters may be needed under
powers of this precept
39. Above said rules and regulations constructed by the Minister should be forwarded to the
provincial council at the earliest and got approved with or without revisions and declared as
orders by a gazette notification from a due date.
40.  This precept will amend the sports precept of Uva province No. 2 of 1997, from the date
approved by the Governor of Uva province.
41.  Some word used in this precept should be understand as follows :
i. The Minister “The cabinet minister in-charge of the subject of sports of the Uva provincial
council”
ii. The Governor “The Governor of the Uva province”
iii. The secretary “The secretary in-charge of sports of the Uva provincial council”
iv. Sports or game “All kind of sports and legal games including enjoyable games physical
training body building and exercising”
v. Provincial Council “The Provincial council of Uva”
vi. Sports clubs or sports societies “A club or society formed for the benefit of any game or
sport according to the precept.
42. If any complication arises between the words or phrases in Sinhala or Tamil versions of this
precept the Sinhala version should be accepted as the one conveys the original meaning.
04 - 250
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.