

<!-- page 1 -->

1 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2 017'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2038$73 - 2017 iema;eïn¾ ui 29 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'09'29
No. 2038/73 -  FRIDAY  SEPTEMBER  29,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
EASTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
HEREBY publish the regulations enacted under sub clause (G), (H) and (I)(i) of clause 08. 1 of second part of Eastern Province
Road Passengers Transport Authority Audience of No. 02, 2009 of Eastern Provincial Council.
These regulations shall be effective from 01st September, 2017.
Z. A. NAZEER AHAMED (Engineer),
Chief Minister, Minister for Financial Planning, Law and Peace,
Provincial and Divisional Administration, Rural Development,
Tourism and Environment, Buildings and Constructions,
Transport and Rural industries and housing,
Eastern Provincial Council.
01. These regulations are introduced as "Regulations of certifying the safety and convenience of passengers No. 2, 2017"
of Eastern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority.
I  Part - Driver/Conductor Uniforms
02. Every driver or conductor engaged in service of every bus under the permit of Eastern Province Road Passenger
Transport Authority or another Authority, shall be dressed in an uniform defined by the Authority when engaged in
the service of that bus.
03. The uniform which shall be used by drivers and conductors is the uniform described in the schedule one below.
04. The official identity card shall be dressed by Drivers and conductors shall be compulsorily prepared  according to
schedule No. 2 below.
05. In every occasion as defined in the orders the shirt specified for upper part of the body, and trouser or sarom dropped
down to the ankle.
06. The period of engage in service is from the first turn of the first day concerned to the bus to the end of the turn
including the entire time.
This Gazette Extraordinary  can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
1A  PG 3709 — 22  (09/2017)
PG 3709  Gazette IV A  29.09.2017  KE  2038/73  T-03  1st Reading
  The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2 017'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017
07. If the uniform and the official identity is defer as define from the authority it is regarded that the uniform and official
identity card is not being dressed.
08. When obtaining a turn for the relevant bus, if the driver and conductor of the bus are not dressed in due uniform the
time keeper shall not issue the turn for the concerned the bus and shall inform the relevant officer-in-charge regarding
this.
09. It is assigned to the permit holder of the responsibility of enquiring whether the drivers and conductors who are in
duty are not dressed in uniform and without official identity card.
10. The permit holders who employ drivers and conductors not dressed in uniform and official identity card defined by the
authority are breaching the orders of the authority.
11. Drivers and conductors shall keep the uniforms clean and should follow the instructions regarding the uniform and
official identity card from time to time by the authority.
12. (1) Drivers and conductors who break the orders enacted on uniform and official identity card make o ffenses and
subject to the discipline Procedure of clause 9 schedule 3.
(2) The registration of drivers and conductors who breaks the orders after three times will be cancelled and within
seven days of informing the driver and conductor the said cancellation, the identity of driver and conductor should
return to the authority.
13. (1) Those drivers and conductors who break the orders regarding uniform and official identity card after fourth time
will be black listed and listing more than two times will make way for suspending or revocation permit of the bus.
(2) Any bus which is blacklisted for breaking orders of uniform and official badges without instruction of Director
General of the Authority shall not be granted travel turns, issue of monthly log sheet by any officer.
14. The Uniform is a kind of short sleeved T-Shirt ("T" Shirt). Two pockets on upper left and upper right on the upper left
pocket the fixed logo of the authority should be embroidered including EPRTA  emblem. The uniform sh ould be
entirely in maroon color. Collar and the seam of hands should be in orange color with golden color. The selected
material of the shirt is "PK" the uniform shall be according to first schedule.
SCHEDULE 01
2 A


<!-- page 3 -->

3 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2 017'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017
15. Official Identity card of Drivers/Conductors
(i) Official Identity Card. – Official Identity Card is a card of height 08.5 c.m. and width 06.0 c.m. The logo of the
authority with the address should be printed on the face upper side. Letters should be printed in black on white
background.
(ii) The Official Identity Card should be according to the Schedule two.
SUB SCHEDULE 02
(iii) The photo of the employee 02.5 c.m. in length and 03.5 c.m. in breath should be included on the lower side of the
face. The following details should be included on the face of identity card:
1. Serial number of official identity card,
2. Name with initials of the employee,
3. Barcode,
4. The date of the issue of official identity card,
5. Number of official identity card of the employee,
6. V alid period and the date of expiry of the official identity card.
(iv) The following details should be included on the other side of the official identity card.
7. The date of the official identity card issued first,
8. Permanent address of the employee,
9. When the official identity card holder is a driver the number of the driving license,
10. The signature of the employee,
11. The signature of the authorized officer.
(v) On the back side below of the official identity card the following clause should be included:
"Issued under the Eastern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority Ordinance number 02, 2009.
Should be dressed on every time engaged in the service of bus."
Part ii  - Issuance of Electronic Ticket
16. A ticket shall be issued from a ticket issuing machine approved and certified by the authority for e very passenger
travel in every bus under passenger transport permit issued from Eastern Province Road Passenger Transport Authority
or under another authority.
Front Back
06.0 cm
08.5 cm
06.0 cm
08.5 cm

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2 017'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017
17. The details of ticket machine shall be entered by forwarding the permit book issued from permit holder to Eastern
Province Road Passenger Transport Authority regarding use of passenger ticket issuing machine.
18. The ticket issuing machine which is used for issuing tickets to passengers of the relevant bus should be referred to the
main office of the authority and get endorsed. It shall be submitted to authority and get updated every six months any
time ordered by the authority.
19. The ticket machine used for issuing tickets to passengers shall be forwarded to flying squad officers or any authorized
officers of the authority to examine it on their request by the conductor of the concerned bus.
20. In every ticket issued by the passenger ticket machine the following details should be printed in the order correctly
and clearly:
1. The registered number of the bus,
2. The passenger permit of the bus,
3. Date,
4. Time,
5. Serial number of the passenger ticket,
6. Start of journey,
7. Destination,
8. Fees,
9. Registered number of the conductor,
10. Registered number of the driver,
11. The insurance company where the bus is insured.
21. The permit holder should keep in security the reports regarding daily issuance of tickets, date, mon ths, years to
produce in any occasion when requested by the authority.
22. The conductor should not in any occasion issue a passenger any ticket which is altered or deformed o r printed
illegibly or which is not included the details defined by the authority.
23. Any conductor should not use a ticket issuing machine which is with defects of issuing tickets or defects in printing.
24. When a ticket issuing machine is suddenly damaged or subjected to any breakdown should be informed t o the
officer-in-charge at the nearby bus stand and should be endorsed monthly running charge with his signature.
25. When a ticket issuing machine subjected unavoidable damage, a ticket book issued from the authority for issuing
tickets should be kept in the bus and tickets should be issued in connection to the route permit ticket.
26. The responsibility of the conductor of the relevant ticket machine is to maintain properly. The ticket issuing machine
and should not do anything to make changes of order the ticket issuing machine or to be printed with defect to printed
tickets.
27. An appropriate certificate issued by the Road Passengers Transport Authority for the standard should  be obtained
for every ticket issuing machine for issuing tickets to every passenger.
28. (i) Any conductor issuing tickets by a machine not certified by the authority will be a culprit unde r Clause 5 of
Schedule 3 and subject to the relevant procedure.
(ii) Any conductor will be a culprit for issuing a ticket which does not include the details defined by the authority or
altered or deformed and shall be subject to Clause 6 of Schedule 3 discipline procedure.

<!-- page 5 -->

5 AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2 017'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRA ORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017
(iii) Non Compliance to the inspection of relevant document and ticket issuing machine and/or neglecting, avoiding or
failing to forward daily monthly, annual reports of tickets issued by tickets issuing machine of the concerned bus or
submitting incorrect reported by permit holder will be an offender regarding breach of regulations (order) subject to
discipline procedure as per the clause 4 of schedule 3.
(iv) Except the offenses mentioned in above sub clauses 28 (i) (ii) and (iii) regarding the issuance of tickets from ticket
machine the conductor who breaches orders regarding ticket machine and the ticket issued by the machine shall be
accused and subject to one or serveral of discipline procedure mentioned at clause 01, 02, 03, 07 and 08 of schedule 03.
29. (i) The official identity card of those conductors who breaches orders after  third time, regarding usage of tickets
machine and issuance of ticket by the  said machine could be revoked. The said revocation shall be i nformed to
conductors the conductor should return the identity card to authority within seven days.
(ii) The bus in which a conductor who breached orders regarding using of ticket machine and issuing tickets for the
third time shall be blacklisted and upon blank listing for two times, the root permit of the relevan t bus due to be
canceled.
(iii) Any bus which is black listed upon using ticket machines without the instructions of director general of authority
and issuing tickets by that machine, shall not be granted travel terms or issue of monthly log sheet s by any other
officer in the Authority.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2 017'09'29
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.09.2017
Schedule 3
  Regulations for assuring protection and convenience of passengers/ procedures taken for breaching of (1)
  conditions/charging of administrative fees.
Nature of breaching conditions Procedures Procedures Procedures Procedures Procedures Procedures Other
taken for taken for taken for taken for taken for taken for Matters
First time Second time Third time Fourth time Fifth time Sixth time
Very serious offenses
1 Charging less or more than the
defined fee
2 Not displaying the bus fair
schedule
3 Threatening or / and Warning Warning Black Black Cancelation - -
reprimanding or// and inflicting and charge and charge listing - i Listing - ii of  Rout
physical injuries to licensed of Rs. of Rs. permit
officers of eastern province 2,500/- 5,000/-
road passenger transport
authority (Road/ flying squad
officers, Officers in charge,
time keepers)
Main offences
4 Refusing to check ticket Warning Warning Severe Black Black Cancellation -
machines and documents to  and charge and charge warning and Listing - i Listing - ii of  Rout
licensed officers without of Rs. of Rs. charge of Rs. permit
assisting or providing 1,500/- 2,500/- 5,000/-
incorrect information
5 Issuing a  ticket for the Warning Warning Severe Black Black Cancellation -
relevant service by a non and charge and charge warning and Listing - i Listing - ii of  Rout
ticket issuing machine of Rs. of Rs. charge of Rs. permit
1,000/- 1,500/- 5,000/-
6 Issuing of illegible or deformed Warning Warning Warning Severe Black Black Cancelation
ticket and charge and charge and charge warning and Listing - i Listing - ii of  Rout
of Rs. of Rs. of Rs. charge of Rs. permit
500/- 1,000/- 2,500/- 2,500/-
7 Disobedience to officers of Warning Warning Severe Black Black Cancellation -
road passenger transport and charge and charge warning and Listing - i Listing - ii of  Rout
authority of eastern province of Rs. of Rs. charge of Rs. permit
1,000/- 2,500/- 6,000/-
8 Unkindness to the passengers Warning Warning Severe Black Black Cancellation -
and charge and charge warning and Listing - i Listing - ii of  Rout
of Rs. of Rs. charge of Rs. permit
1,000/- 3,000/- 5,000/-
9 Not dressing in driver/ Warning Warning Warning Severe Black Black Cancellation
conductor uniform/officer and charge and charge and charge warning and Listing - i Listing - ii of  Rout
identify card in operation of Rs. of Rs. of Rs. charge of Rs. permit
1,000/- 2,000/- 3,000/- 5,000/-
10-440
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.