

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
  
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province   ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province  ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 400
(Published by Authority)
PA RT  III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"352 - 2023 iema;eïn¾ ui 27 jeks nodod - 2023'09'27
 No. 2,352 - WEDNES DAy,  SEPtEMbER 27, 2023
                                
ImPoRTAnT  noTIce  Re GARDI nG  Acce PTAnce  of  noTIceS 
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  Week Ly  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  20th October 2023 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 06th October  2023.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.” 
Gangani Liyanage,
Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2023.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
399 - b 82499- 353 (09/2023)
Page Page
Note.–      Office for National Unity and Reconciliation Bill is published as a supplement to the part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  Septemebr 22, 2023.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'27
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka – 27.09.2023
400
miscellaneous  Land notices
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL'S  
DePARTmenT
Land Commissioner General's No.: 4/10/73941.
Land Commissioner's No.  : wï$bfld$b$ioa$m%df,a$jd‚$38'
Notification made under State Land Regulation                      
no. 21 (2)
it is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose,                     
Mr. Udarata Ralalage Harsajith Santharuwan has requested 
on lease a state land containing in extent about 50 Perches 
as depicted in drawn by the Colonization Officer from a 
portion of Lot No. 609 to 619 in Cadastral Map No. 280002 
and situated in the Village of Sadhathissapura which belongs 
to the Grama Niladhari Division of Sadhathissapura coming 
within the area of authority of Ampara Divisional Secretariat 
in the District of Ampara.
02. Given below area the boundaries of the land requested :
      
On the North by    : Lot No. D and Darmapala Mawatha;
On the East by    : Darmapala Mawatha and internal 
   Road;
On the South by   : internal Road;
On the West by    : Lot No. G and Lot No. D.
03. the land requested can be given on lease for the necessary 
purpose. therefore, the Government has intended to lease 
out the subject to other Government approved conditions 
and the following conditions.  :
 (a)  Term of the lease : thirty (30) years (30) (From 
29.08.2023 onwards) ;
  Annual  rent of the lease : 2% of the undeveloped 
value of the land, as per Valuation of the chief Valuer, 
for the year 2023 when the annual value of the land is 
less than Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000.00) for 
that year. 4% of the undeveloped value of the land as 
per valuation of the chief Valuer, for the year 2023, 
when the annual value of the land is more than Five 
Millions (Rs. 5,000,000.00) for that year. this Lease 
amount should be revised one in every Five y ears and 
20% of the lease amount charged in the final year of 
the preceding five years period, should be added to the 
annual lease amount.
  Premium : Not charged.
  (b)   the lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as 
to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary;
 (c) the lessees must not use this land for any purpose 
other than for the purpose of Commercial Purpose;
 (d) this lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Provincial 
Land  Commissioner/ Divisional Secretary, and by 
other institutions;
 (e) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (f)   No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 29.08.2023 except 
sub-leasing or transferring to fulfil the purpose of this 
lease ;
 (g) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse;
 
  if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date of publication this 
notification in Gazette the effect that this land must 
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as 
requested.
  
 S. V . A. D. Ishara M. Samarathunga, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura", 
Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla,
18th September, 2023.
09-498

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2023'09'27
Part III – Gazette of the democrat Ic Soc IalISt republ Ic of Sr I lanka – 27.09.2023
401
LAND  COMMISSIONER  GENERAL'S  
DEPARTMENT
Land Commissioner General's No.: 4/10/73940.
Land Commissioner's No.  : 
wï$bfld$b$ioa$m%df,a$jd‚$56'
Notification made under State Land Regulation                      
No. 21 (2)
IT is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose,                      
Mr. Hettige Bhagya Dilshan Jayasinghe has requested on lease 
a state land containing in extent about 20 Perches as depicted 
in drawn by the Colonization Officer from a portion of Lot 
No. 609 to 619 in Cadastral Map No. 280002 and situated in 
the Village of Sadhathissapura which belongs to the Grama 
Niladhari Division of Sadhathissapura coming within the area 
of authority of Ampara Divisional Secretariat in the District 
of Ampara.
02. Given below area the boundaries of the land requested :
      
On the North by  
  : Lot No. C and Darmapala Mawatha;
On the East by    : Darmapala Mawatha and Lot No. 
A;
On the South by   : Lot No. A and Lot No. G;
On the West by    : Lot No. G and Lot No. C.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary  
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease 
out the subject to other Government approved conditions 
and the following conditions.  :
 (a)  Terms of the lease : Thirty (30) years (From 29.08.2023 
onwards) ;
  Annual  r ent of the lease : 2% of the undeveloped 
value of the land, as per Valuation of the chief Valuer, 
for the year 2023 when the annual value of the land is 
less than Rupees Five Million (Rs. 5,000,000.00) for 
that year. 4% of the undeveloped value of the land as 
per valuation of the chief Valuer, for the year 2023, 
when the annual value of the land is more than Five 
Millions (Rs. 5,000,000.00) for that year. This Lease 
amount should be revised one in every Five Years and 
20% of the lease amount charged in the final year of 
the preceding five years period, should be added to the 
annual lease amount.
  Premium : Not charged.
  ( b)   The less ees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop the said land, in such a manner as 
to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary;
 (c)  The lessees must not use this land for any purpose 
other than for the purpose of Commercial Purpose;
 (d)  This lease must also be subject to the other special 
conditions 
stipulated and imposed by the Provincial 
Land  Commissioner/ Divisional Secretary, and by 
other Institutions;
 (e)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of the lessees to substantiate within 
the specified time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease ;
 (f)   No sub-le asing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 29.08.2023 except 
sub-leasing or transferring to fulfil the purpose of this 
lease ;
 (g)  Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted 
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse;
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in  
writing within six weeks of the date of publication 
this notification in Gazette in the effect that this land 
must not be given on lease, the land will be leased out 
as requested.
  
 S. V . A. D. Ishara M. Samarathunga, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner 
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
"Mihikatha Medura", 
Rajamalwatta Road, Battaramulla,
20th September, 2023.
09-499
PRINT eD  AT  The  De PARTMeNT  Of  GOVeRNMeNT  PRINTING ,  SRI  LANkA.