

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1285
1285
wxl 1"766 - 2012 cQ,s 06 jeks isl=rdod - 2012'07'06
No. 1,766 – FRIDAY , JULY 06, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1288
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 1288
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 27th July, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 13th July,
2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
(Acting) Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part I-III of the Gazette No. 1,765 of 29.06.2012 was not published.
Note.— Nineteenth Amendment to the constitution Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of  08th June, 2012  ;
Sri Gunarathana International Foundation (Incorporation) Bill is published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of 08th June, 2012.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1286
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1287
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1288
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars Births and Deaths
PUTTALAM  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 06th August, 2012.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
14th June, 2012.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Division and Post for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Puttalam Puttalam Post of Registrar of Birth and Deaths District Secretary/Additional Registrar
for Puttalam Town Division General, District Secretariat,
Puttalam.
07–08
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EXAMINATION  FOR  PROMOTION  OF  OFFICER  IN
CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT  ASSISTANTS'
SERVICE  TO  CLASS  II  OF  THE  SERVICE - 2011
THE closing date of application prescribed in the notification for
"Examination for Promotion of Officer in Class III of Public
Management Assistants" Service to Class II of the Service 2011",
pubilshed in the gazette of No. 1,759 dated 18th May, 2012 of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is revised as 22nd of
October, 2012.
02. Accordingly, the date on which the qualifications prescribed
in Para. 4.0 of the notification for should be fulfilled, is revised as
22nd of October, 2012.
03. Attention should be paid to the above revision when the
applicant perfects Sub Para. 7.0(iii) of specimen application.
Further, the respective Heads of the Departments should also pay
their attention to the same when they perfect the attestation of the
Head of the Department.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1289
04. Other provisions set out in that gazette notification shall
further remain effective.
B. P. P. S. ABEYGUNARA THNE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
18th of June, 2012.
07–189
––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  CHILD  DEVELOPMENT  AND
WOMEN'S  AFFAIRS
First Efficiency Bar Examination – 2012 for Women
Development Officers
FIRST Efficiency Bar Examination for Women Development
Officers of Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs
will be held in Colombo in October, 2012 by the Commissioner
General of Examinations.
It is notified that the closing date for applications of this
examination will be 03.08.2012 :
Examination Procedure : This Efficiency Bar Examination will
consist of the following subjects.
Subject No. 1 : Financial Regulations/
Office Methods Time – 02 hours
Marks – 100
Subject No. 2 : Gender and Women's
Rights do
Subject No. 3 : Sociology and
Psychological Counseling     do
Note :-
(a) An officer is allowed to sit for all the subjects at one
sitting or on different sittings separately.
(b) For a pass, 40% marks or above should be obtained
from each paper.
(c) Each paper contains questions that are compulsory
to be answered.
03. Subjects :
03.01 Part A.– Financial Regulations
Public Management Structure in Sri Lanka
Financial Control and Annual Estimates
(Financial Regulations of the Government V olume
I – excluding Paragraph X)
Part B.– Office Methods
Regulations in the Establishment Code
Office Management covers the following chapters
of the Establishment Code.
(I, II, IV , V , VII, IX, XII, XV , XXIII, XXVI,
XXVII, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII)
03.02 Gender and Women's Rights
Treatment against women
Gender in Sri Lanka Society
Sri Lanka Women's Charter and Women's Rights.
03.03 Sociology and psychological counselling :
- Rural Sociology
- Urbanization in Sri Lanka
- Rural Development
- Basic characteristics and principles of
psychological counseling
- Woman and mental irregularities
- Counseling movement and counseling
opportunities in Sri Lanka.
04. A specimen application for this examination is published at
the end of this notification.
The applicants should prepare their own applications in
accordance with the specimen application. The application should
be prepared including numbers 01 to 06 on the first page and the
other parts on the second page of an A4 size paper. The application
should be completed by the applicant in his/her own handwriting.
The applicant's designation and the place of work at the moment
of applying for the examination are relevant to all the matters
connected to the examination and the changes that occur after
sending the applications will not be taken into consideration.
05. The applications should be sent through Department Heads
(through Divisional Secretary if in Divisional Secretariats) under
registered cover to reach the "Commissioner General of
Examinations", Sri Lanka Examinations Department, Organizations
and External Examinations Branch, Pelawatta, Battaramulla on or
before 03.08.2012.
The name of the examination should be indicated in the top left
hand corner of the envelope. Applications received after the closing
date and applications that are incomplete will be rejected.
New entrants connected with official language policy can
complete their applications in the official language or in Tamil/
English languages in accordance with their medium of recruitment
to service.
06. Immediately after the issuance of admission cards to the
applicants, a press release in that regard will be released by the
Examinations Department of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1290
If any candidate does not receive the admission card even after
2 or 3 days from the notification, it should be informed to the
Examinations Department of Sri Lanka. It would be advisable keep
certified photocopies of the application and the receipt of payment,
receipt of registration, a letter of appeal indicating a fax number for
the admission card to be faxed if the applicant resides away from
Colombo, when informing the Examinations Department.
1. Name of the Examination :––––––––––––––.
2. Full name of the Applicant :––––––––––––––.
3. Address :––––––––––––––.
4. Post Office from where the application has been
registered, its registration number and date :–––––––––.
07. Identity.- Candidates need to prove their identity to the
supervisor in the examination hall for each subject taken. Any of
the following documents will be accepted for that purpose.
(i) Valid National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner
for Registration of Persons,
(ii) Valid Passport.
Commissioner General of Examinations has the authority to
reject or to cancel the candidature of an applicant who fails in
submitting any documents above.
08. Examination fees.- According to the following basis, fees are
charged from the applicants who sit for this examination.
Examination fees Rupees Cents
(a) No. examination fee for the first sitting -  -
(b) For the complete examination after
the first sitting 400  0
(c) For one subject 200  0
Examination fees should be paid to the Divisional Secretariat, to
be credited to the Revenue Head 120-1-2-0-2401 of the Secretary
to the Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs and
the receipt obtained should be properly pasted in the allotted space.
Keeping a photocopy of the receipt would be useful.
09. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and the candidates aer subject to the rules and
regulations specified by the Commissioner with relevance to
conducting the examination. If the said rules and regulations are
violated by any candidate, he/she will be subject to a punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Duty leave should be granted by the Heads of Departments/
Offices for the officers of their Departments/Offices who have
been qualified to sit for the examination and who have been issued
an admission card by the Commissioner General of Examinations,
to sit for the examination.
11. If any matter is not included in these rules and regulations,
such will be dealt with at the discretion of the Secretary to the
Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs.
Secretary,
Ministry of Child Development and
Women's Affairs.
Ministry of Child Development and Women's Affairs,
No. 175A, Nawala Road,
Nugegoda,
18th June, 2012.
APPLICATION
(For office use only)
F
IRST EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION 2012 FOR WOMEN
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS OF THE MINISTRY OF CHILD DEVELOPMENT
AND WOMEN'S AFFAIRS
Medium of Examinaiton
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Write the relevant number in the box)
1. Name :
1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––––.
((Initials at the end in Block Capitals)
(Eg.- SILV A, A. B.)
1.2 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 National Identity Card No. :––––––––––––––.
2. Official Address :––––––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
2.1 Official Address :––––––––––––––.
(in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.2 Admission card should be addressed to :–––––––––––.
(English Block capitals)
2.3 Telephone Number :––––––––––––––.
3. 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1
Male - 0
3.2 Civil Status :
Married - 1
Single - 2
3.3 Date of birth :
Year :              Month :    Date :

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1291
3.4 Age as at closing date (03.08.2012) :
Years : Months :  Days :
4. Date of appointment for the post of Women Development
Officer in the Ministry of Child Development and Women's
Affairs :––––––––––––––.
(The date on which duties were assumed should be indicated).
5. Whether an old entrant or a new entrant to the prime objectives
of Official Language Policy :––––––––––––––.
6. Name of the Department (If it is a Divisional Secretariat, indicate
its name) :––––––––––––––.
7. Subjects and subject numbers applied for in accordance with
paragraph 02 of the Gazette Notification :
Subject Subject No.
01.
02.
03.
8. Whether it is the first sitting ? :––––––––––––––.
9. Details of the receipt of the payment of examination fees :
(i) Divisional Secretariat to which the payment has been
made :––––––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt number and date :––––––––––––––.
(iii) Date of payment :––––––––––––––.
Attach the Receipt here
(Keep a photocopy)
10. I do hereby declare that the above particulars are true and
correct and I am entitled to sit for the examination in the above
mentioned medium. I also declare that I am subject to the rules
and regulations implemented by the Commissioner General of
Examinations with relevance to conducting the examination and
to the decisions taken with relevance to the issue of results.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––––.
N. B.– Applicant's signature should be placed in the presence of
the Head of the Department or an officer who is authorized to sign
for the Head of the Department.
Certification of the Applicant's Signature
I do hereby certify that Miss/Mrs. ..................................... who
is an employee in my office and whom I personally know placed
her signature in my presence on ......... 2012.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Attester.
Name :––––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of Department
I certify that,
(i) I examined all the particulars furnished, they are accurate,
relevant examination fees have been paid, the receipt has
been attached, and
(ii) The applicant is eligible to sit for the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
(Official Stamp)
Title :––––––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––––––.
07-79
–––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  AND  THE
WRITTEN  TEST  ON  COMPUTER  SKILLS  FOR
OFFICERS  IN  CLASS  III  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS'  SERVICE – 2010(II) (2012)
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination and a
Written Test on Computer Skills for officers in Class III of the
Public Management Assistants' Service will be held by the
Commissioner - General of Examinations, as per the relevant
provisions of the approved Service Minutes, in the month of
October, 2012.
2.0  Information on the eligibility of the candidates are furnished
in Section Nos. 5 and 9 of the Public Management Assistants'
Service Minute published in the Government Extra Ordinary Gazette
No. 1,372/23 of 24.12.2004.
3.0 This examination for officers in Class III of Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullativu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The relevant towns and town numbers are given below. It will not
be allowed to change the town applied for subsequently.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1292
Town Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 02
Galle 03
Matara 04
Jaffna 05
Mannar 06
Mullaitivu 07
Trincomalee 08
Batticaloa 09
Kurunegala 10
Anuradhapura 11
Badulla 12
Ratnapura 13
Killinochchi 14
A center without sufficient number of candidates will be cancelled
and the relevant candidates will be directed to the next nearest
centre available.
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment
imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of these rules and regulations.
5.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of specimen appended to this notification. Applicants should
prepare the applications themselves according to the specimen.
Applications prepared thus should be sent by the registered post
through the respective Heads of Departments to reach the
‘‘Commissioner - General of Examinations, Organizations and
Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations,
Pelawatte, Battaramulla" on or before 06th August, 2012. The name
of the examination should be indicated in the top left hand corner of
the envelope of the application. Applications received after the
closing date will be rejected.
6.0 Identity of the Candidates .– Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor :–
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above
mentioned documents might be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
7.0 Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper
of A4 size in such a manner that Para. Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appear on the
first page. The application could be typewritten but should be
filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised as not to send more than one application
or photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing on the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/herself complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.
The candidates appearing for the examination for the 1st time
need not pay examination fees. However, the examination fee of
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and the examination fee of
Rs. 200 for a single subject should be affixed for subsequent sittings.
This examination fee can be paid to any District of Divisional
Secretariat in the Island to be credited to revenue head 2003-02-13
of the Commissioner General of Examination and the receipt should
be affixed firmly in the relevant cage. Further it is advisable to keep
a photocopy of the receipt. Under any circumstances, the fees will
not be refunded or transferred in respect of any other examination.
8.0  The Commissioner-General of Examinations will issue
copies of the time table and admission cards to all candidates whose
applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a
candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate is eligible to
sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the
admission card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor
of the examination hall. Candidates without admission cards will
not be permitted to sit for the examination. A notification will be
published in newspapers by the Department of Examinations as
soon as the admission cards are issued to candidates. If the admission
card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such advertisement,
steps should be taken to notify the Department of Examinations in
the manner specified in the advertisement. It would be advisable to
keep the following in hand at the time of calling the Department of
Examinations : i. e.– receipt of registration and in case of applicants
outside Colombo, letter of request, furnishing a fax number to which
the admission cards should be sent.
9.0  The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations to enable them to appear
for the examination. No travelling expenses will be paid.
10.0  This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
media. The officers may sit for this examination either in the language
medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the service
or in one of the official languages. Candidates who entered the
service without a competitive examination may sit for the
examination in their medium of education or in one of the official
languages. The language medium of examination, mentioned originally
in the application cannot be changed subsequently.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1293
11.0 Officers may appear separately for each subject at different
occasions at their discretion. However they should score at least
40% of the total marks for each subject, for a pass.
12.0 Commissioner-General of Examinations will release the
results of the examination to the Director General of Combined
Services and names of the successful candidates will be published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
13.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written
examination that will consist of the following subjects :–
Subject Subject Marks Duration
No.
(i) Office systems 01 100 01 hr.
(ii) Accounting Systems 02 100 01 hr.
(iii) Computer Test 03 100 1 1/2 hrs.
13.1 Office Systems (Subject No. 01) :
Basic knowledge in office systems adopted in
Government offices and the ability of practical
application of the knowledge will be tested. Further,
the candidates’ ability of understanding official
correspondence, ability of indicating observations/ideas
precisely and clearly and the skill of drafting letters as
per the instructions given will be tested. This paper
will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short
answers. Answers should be provided on
the paper itself. Should answer all the
questions. (25 marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type.
Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75
marks).
13.2 Accounting Systems (Subject No. 02) :
Candidates' knowledge in an understanding of basic
accounting procedures adopted in Government offices
and the purposes of books and records on financial
control will be tested. Paper will consist of two parts :–
Part I – Consists of questions that require short
answers. Should provide answers on the paper
itself. Should answer all the questions. (25
marks) ;
Part II – A question paper of structured essay type.
Should answer 03 out of 04 questions. (75
marks).
13.3 Test on Computer Skills (Subject No. 03) :
Objective of this test is to verify the candidate’s skills
on the following :–
Basic concepts of Information Technology
Windows Operating System
File Management
Word Processing Basic skills, Screen
Familiarization, Editing text
Aligning Text, Fonts and
Attributes, Indenting
Paragraphs, change of Line
Spacing, Tab settings, Finding
and replacing text, Spelling and
Grammar, Thesaurus.
Working with columns, Page
setup
Printing documents, Creating
Tables, Sorting text
File Management
Mail Merging
Working with macros
Spreadsheets Basic Skills
Formatting
Editing
Columns and ranges, Insertion
and Deletion
Sorting data
Creating charts
Printing
@ Function
Working with Macros, File
Management
Databases Introduction, Basic skills
Databases - Creation and
application
Forms
Linked forms, Popup forms,
Dialog and message boxes
Queries
Sorting
Reports
Working with macros
Presentations/Graphics Basic skills, editing, formatting
Applying Designs, Inserting
images, clip art and graphs
Slide Transition and effects,
Animations
Using Presentation tools,
Preparing Masters, Printing
slides and notes
Internet Introduction to Internet, World
Wide Web, How to Navigate,
Practical Internet

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1294
E-mail Introduction, basic skills,
receiving mail, sending mail,
responding to mails
Working with attachements,
creating and using nicknames
Composing messages
This paper consists of two parts.
Part I .– Consists of 40 questions of MCQ type that
require short answers - Duration 45 minutes
(40 marks) ;
Part II .– 05 semi structured questions - Duration 45
minutes. (60 marks).
Note.– As per Section 5:1:2 of Public Management Assistants'
Service Minute, officers who possess computer driving
licenses awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial
Training Authority or an equivalent or a higher certificate
issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education
and V ocational Education Commission, which are given
in Appendix I, will be exempted from the written test on
computer skills. Further, the officers who have obtained
the certificate of Computer Application Assistant (NVQ
Level 3) offered by the National Apprentice and Industrial
Training Authority are also exempted from the written
test on computer skills.
14.0 The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in any matter not provided for in this notification.
B. P. P. S. A
BEYGUNARA THNA,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
21st June, 2012.
APPENDIX I
The document of computer Certificates issued by institutions recognized by Tertiary Education and V ocational Education
Commission.
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
1. Computer Training Center No. 09, Dharmarama Mawatha, Colombo 06 Compute r Application Assistant
2. Computer Training Center - NAITA Negombo Road, Malkaduwawa, Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
3. Computer Training Center - NAITA No. 525/2, Maithiripala Senanayaka Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Rathnanayakepura, Anuradhapura
4. Apprenticeship Training Institute No. 581, Galle Road, Katubedda, Moratuwa Compute r Application Assistant
5. Computer Training Center - NAITA Ratalankawatta, Mapalana, Kamburupitiya Compute r Application Assistant
6. Sri Saranankara Apprentice Training Udawatta, Baddegama Computer Application Assistant
Centre - NAITA
7. Computer Training Center - NAIT A Mahaweli Economic Agency Building, Computer Application Assistant
Embilipitiya
8. Computer Education Center Divisional Secretariat Of fice, Anguruwatha, Computer Application Assistant
Madurawela
9. Technical College W erallawatta, Yakkala, Gampaha Computer Application Assistant
10. Yovun Nikethanaya Computer Application Assistant
11. V ocational Training Centre National Youth Services Council, Pallidora Road, Computer Application Assistant
Kawdana, Dehiwala
12. National Youth Services Council No. 65, High Level Road, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
13. Don Bosco V ocational Training Centre Put talam Road, Nochchiyagama Computer Application Assistant
14. Institute of Professional Computer No. 178A, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Compute r Application Assistant
Systems
15. Technology and Computer Training No. 15, 1/1, Piyadasa Sirisena Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
Institute Maradana, Colombo 10
16. Cholankanda Youth Trainng Centre Udahenthanna, S. P. O. 20506, Via Gampola Computer Application Assistant
17. Bishop Leo Technical Institute USCOD Center, St. Bedes Home, Badulla
18. SOS Children's Village of Sri Lanka V ocational Training Centre, Maduruketiya, Computer Application Assistant
Monaragala
19. Beeta Com Multimedia and Computer No. 20, Danovita Road, Meerigama Compute r Application Assistant
Studies

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1295
20. Don Bosco Technical Centre No. 22, Don Bosco Mawatha, Ettukala, Computer  Application Assistant
Negombo
21. Rathanasela Nenasala Rathanasela Pirivena, Weegama, Rathmale, Computer Application Assistant
Computer Centre Ku/I tanawatta
22. Navoda Computer Education Institute No. 72, Devananda Road, Navinna, Maharagama Computer Application Assistant
23. N. K. I. Computer Training Institute Manahara Building Pituwala Road, Elpitiya Computer Application Assistant
24. Lanka Tech Computer No. 2/52, Horana Road, Piliyandala Computer Application Assistant
25. M. D. P. Computer Training Institute No. 64/A/1, Station Road, Kadana Computer Application Assistant
26. Infornet Computer Systems No. 143/1A, Ananda Senanayaka Complex, Computer Application Assistant
Katuwana Road, Homagama
27. Informax Computer Technology No. 52, Matale Road, Galewela Computer Application Assistant
28. Advance Training Centre (ATC) No. 02, Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Computer Application Assistant
29. Thondaman V ocational Training Centre Saumyamoorthi Thondaman Memorial Computer Application Assistant
Foundation Pool Bank, Hatton
30. Sri Lanka Nippon Education and Mahindarama Road, Ethulkotte, Kotte Computer Application Assistant
Cultural Center
31. Rural V ocational Training Centre Mudukatuwa, Marawila Computer Application Assistant
32. District V ocational T raining Centre Galigamuwa Town, Ballapana, Kegalle Computer Application Assistant
33. National V ocational Training Centre No. 354, Elvitigala Mawatha, Narahenpita, Computer Application Assistant
Colombo 05
34. District V ocational Training Centre S aragama Kurunegala Computer Application Assistant
35. National V ocational Training Institute No. 100, Kandawala  Road, Ratmalana Computer Application Assistant
36. Rural V ocational Training Centre, Meeta Social Service Foundation, Computer Application Assistant
Weherahena Weherahena, M atara
37. District V ocational Training Centre Wattha, Tissa Road, Wellawaya Computer Application Assistant
38. Agonsu Training Center Saranawattha, Nayamulla, Morawaka Computer Application Assistant
39. Special V ocational T raining Centre Higher Computer Training Institute, Fort, Computer Application Assistant
Matara
40. Kubalgama Sunami Sri Jinendraramaya, Kubalgama, Weligama Computer Application Assistant
V ocational Training Centre
41. Lakviru Sevana Rural No. 48, Bodhirukkarama Mawatha, Computer Application Assistant
V ocational Training Centre Wellawaththa, Colombo 06
42. National V ocational T raining Institute Niyagama, Thalgaswala Computer Application Assistant
43. District V ocational Training Centre Mirijjawila, Hambanthota Computer Application Assistant
44. Rural V ocational Training Centre Erukkalampiddy, Nagavillu, Palavi Computer Application Assistant
Serial Name of Institute Address of Institute Course
No.
Specimen Form of Application
    (For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AND THE WRITTEN
TEST ON COMPUTER SKILLS FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS
III OF PUBLIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE -
2010(II) (2012)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the name and the number of the town in which you intend
to sit the examination according to you preference as per Gazette
Notification)(This cannot be changed subsequently).
Language Medium of examination:
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage).
(This cannot be changed subsequently).
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals) Eg: SILV A, A.B.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1296
2.0 2.1 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals).
2.2 Name and address of the Office/Department/Institution
:–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent
:–––––––––––.
(In Block Capitals)
 3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female -  1
Male -  0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.).
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year :                          Month :                Date :
3.3 N. I. C. No.  :
4.0 Subject/s you are offering now (Refer Para. 13.0 of the Gazette
Notification) :
Index No. Subject Subject No:
01
02
03
5.0 Present Post :
5.1 Post :–––––––––––.
5.2 Appointment letter number :–––––––––––.
6.0 6.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ?
:–––––––––––.
6.2 If not, examination fees paid :–––––––––––.
6.3 District/Divisional Secretariat :–––––––––––.
6.4 Receipt Number :–––––––––––.
6.5 Date :–––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt of examination fees paid of
Rs. 400 for whole examination and Rs. 200 for only
one subject. It is advisable to keep a photocopy
of the receipt.
I declare that the information furnished above is correct and I am
eligible to sit for the examination in the language medium mentioned
above. The receipt affixed is to the value of Rs. ............. I agree to
abide by the ruels and regulations of this examination imposed by
the Commissioner-General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Note.– Candidate should place his/her signature in the presence
of his/her respective Head of Department or an officer
assigned to sign on behalf of him.
ATTESTATION OF SIGNATURE
I certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss. ................................. who is an
employee of my work station and who is personally known to me
placed his/her signature in my presence on .................... and further
stamps to the value of examination fee have been affixed.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of
the person attesting.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEP ARTMENT
I certify that,
(i) The information furnished above were verified and ;
(ii) The officer *has/has not appeared for the examination
previously ;
(iii) The officer has appeared for the examination previously
and *he/she has affixed the receipt of the fees for the
relevent examination ;
(iv) *He/She is eligible to appear for this examination.
*(Delete inapplicable words)
–––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Name :–––––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––––.
07–140
–––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  EDUCATION
Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class 2
Grade II of Sri Lanka Teacher Educator's Service - 2012
THE Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Grade 2-II of Sri
Lanka Teacher Educator's Service will be held in Colombo in October,
2012. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
medium and the candidates will not be permitted to change the
medium applied for on a later date.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1297
2. The syllabus of this examination and other provisions have
been published in the Gazette Extraordinary of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka bearing No. 1,070/13 dated 11th
March, 1999. This syllabus and other provisions are indicated
below for the convenience of the applicants.
An officer may appear for this Efficiency Bar Examination for
the prescribed subjects in one instance or in different instances.
(a) Syllabus :
Subject Subject Marks Time
No.
01. General Management and 100 1 1/2 hours
Establishment Work. Regulations
in the Government Establishment
Code with special reference to
Chapters I, II, III, IV , V, VII,
VIII, IX, XII, XIII, XIV , XXIV,
XXVIII, XXX and XXXI.
02. Financial Regulations
With special reference to Chapter I 100 1 1/2 hours
II, V , VIII, XII, and XIV in Part I
of the Government Financial
Regulations
03. Education Law
Candidates knowledge expected 100 2 hours
relating to the following Ordinances
and Acts of Parliament
(i) Education Act, No. 31 of 1939 and regulations framed
there under,
(ii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 5 of 1960,
(iii) Assisted Schools and Training Colleges (Supplementary
Provisions) Act, No. 8 of 1961,
(iv) Public, Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968 amended by
Public Examinations (Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1976,
(v) Assisted Schools (Special Provisions) Act, No. 65 of
1981,
(vi) National Institute of Education Act, No. 28 of 1985,
(vii) Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986,
(viii) National Education Commission Act, No. 19 of 1991,
(ix) National Authority on Teacher Education Act, No. 32 of
1997,
(x) Constitution of Sri Lanka with special reference to the
13th Amendment and Chapter 3 on Fundamental rights,
(xi) Enactments made by Provincial Councils relating to the
Education.
P.  S .– Applicants should obtain at least 40% marks for each
subjects, for passing the Efficiency Bar Examination.
3. Language medium of the examination :
(i) Applicants may answer the papers in Official Language
or in the National Language.
(ii) Applicants may answer the papers in the Language
Medium of the Competitive Examination they appeared
for joining the Public Service. Those who joined Public
Service without appearing for a competitive examination
may answer the paper in the Language Medium of the
Examination they were qualified to join the Public Service.
4. If it is revealed that any candidates had appeared for the
examination in a medium he/she is not entitled to appeared, his/her
candidature will be cancelled.
5. Application should be prepared in conformity with the
following specimen form. Application should be prepared by
including all items in the 1st page and the relevant information
should be filled in applicant's own hand writing. Application which
do not confirm to the Specimen Application and those with
incomplete information will be rejected without any intimation. It
will be useful to her photocopy of the application with the applicant
and the applicant should verify whether the completed application
is in conformity withthe specimen form given in the Examination
notification as otherwise the application will be rejected. In
preparing the application the name of the examination mentioned at
the top of the application should be indicated in English in addition
to Sinhala in Sinhala applications and in English in addition to
Tamil in Tamil Application.
6. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examination and applicants are bound to abide by the rules and
regulations imposed by him for conducing this examination.
7. Applications should be sent under registered post addressed
to Commissioner General of Examination, Organization and Foreign
Examination Branch, Department of Examination, Pelawatta,
Battaramulla to reach him on or before 3rd August, 2012. Any
application received after this date will be rejected. The words
"Efficiency Bar Examination - Sri Lanka Teacher Educator's Service
2-II" should be written on the top left hand corner of the envelope
enclosing the application.
8. Immediately after the issue of admission cards to the
applicants the Commissioner General of Examinations will published
a newspaper advertisement to that effect. In the event of any
applicant not receiving his admission card even 2 or 3 days after the
publication of the above advertisement, he should promptly inform
the department of Examinations as indicated in the advertisement.
It will be more useful if you forward your request to the Department
of Examinations along with a certified copy of the application and
the receipt for payment of fees kept with you and a fax number to
send the admission cards when the address is outside Colombo.
9. Complains from applicants who do not confirm to the
requirements of paragraph No. 08 above will not be entertained.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1298
10. Applicants should submit their admission card with the
signature attested to the supervisor of the examination hall on the
date of the examination.
11. It is the responsibility of the applicants to submit evidence
to prove their identity at the examination hall and for this purpose
any one of the following documents will be valid :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner of
the Department of Registration of Persons,
(ii) A Valid Passport.
12. The issue of an admission card to an applicant should not be
treated as an acceptance that he/she has fulfilled the requirements
to appear for the examination.
13. It has been decided to charge examination fees from the
applicants who appear for this examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be charged from applicants appearing for
the first time for the whole examination or for part of
the examination.
(b) Fee for the whole examination Rs. 450
Fee for one subject Rs. 150
A margin of the receipt obtained for payment of the fee at any
Divisional Secretary's offices in the Island to the credit of Revenue
Head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations
should be firmly affixed at the place provided for same in the
application (Retaining a photocopy of the receipt with the applicant
will be useful).
S. M. G
OTABAY A JAY ARATHNE,
Secretary,
Ministry of Education.
Ministry of Education,
Isurupaya,
Battaramulla,
June, 2012.
APPLICATION
E
FFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN CLASS 2 GRADE II OF
SRI LANKA TEACHER EDUCATOR'S SERVICE - 2012
Applications should be forwarded through Head of Institution by
registered post to Commissioner General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations, Pelawatta, Battaramulla.
(Name of the examination should be indicated on the top left
hand corner of the envelope)
Language medium of the examination : Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Relevant Number to be written in the cage)
1. ( a) Name with initials at end :–––––––––––––.
(In English Cpaital Letters) Ex.- SILVA, A. B.
(b) Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
(In English Capital letters)
2. Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3. (i) Designation :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Name and address of NCOE/TC/Teacher center at which
the applicant is serving  :–––––––––––––.
(Admission card will be sent to this address)
4. Private address (In English capital letters) :–––––––––––––.
5. Please indicate clearly the subject number and subject appearing
as indicated under (a) in para 2 of the Notice :
Subject No. Subject
6. Whether you have appeared for the complete examination or
part of the examination earlier and so indicate the subject year
appeared and the medium :
Subject Year Medium Index
No.
7. Examination fees paid :
Fix the receipt here after paying the examination fees.
Keeping a photocopy with the applicant will be useful.
8. I hereby declare that the above information are true and correct
and that I am entitled to sit this examination in the language
medium indicated in para 03 of the Gazette Notification. I will
abide by the rules and regulations imposed by Commissioner
General of Examinations relating to conducting this examination.
–––––––––––,
Signature of applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
Commissioner General of Examination,
Sri Lanka Department of Examinations,
Forwarded,
01. I certify that this applicant is eligible to sit this examination
and he/she is qualified to appear in the language medium indicated
under para 03 of Gazette Notification.
02. I also certify that the applicant has paid the prescribed
examination fees and that he has fixed the receipt.
–––––––––––,
Signature of President NCOE/Head TC
Signature and Designation.
Date :–––––––––––––.
07-238

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1299
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2009
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2009 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2009 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 2,080 00 3,120 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 1,300 00 3,120 00
Section III          ... ... ... ... ... 780 00 3,120 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 4,160 00 6,240 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... ... 580 00 3,120 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... ... 405 00 3,120 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 890 00 2,400 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 420 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 180 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                
... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All remittances should be made in favour of the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya
Avenue, Kirulapone, Colombo 05, who is responsible for booking subscriptions and for sale of single copies.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'06
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 06.07.2012
1300
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Payments should be made direct to the 
Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau, No. 132, Maya Avenue,
Kirulapone, Colombo 05.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer and not by the Superintendent, Government Publications Bureau.
THE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2012
JULY 06.07.2012 Friday — 22.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
13.07.2012 Friday –– 29.06.2012 Friday 12 noon
20.07.2012 Friday –– 06.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
27.07.2012 Friday –– 13.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
AUGUST 03.08.2012 Friday — 20.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
10.08.2012 Friday –– 27.07.2012 Friday 12 noon
17.08.2012 Friday –– 03.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
24.08.2012 Friday –– 10.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
30.08.2012 Thursday –– 17.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
SEPTEMBER 07.09.2012 Friday — 24.08.2012 Friday 12 noon
14.09.2012 Friday –– 30.08.2012 Thursday 12 noon
21.09.2012 Friday –– 07.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
28.09.2012 Friday –– 14.09.2012 Friday 12 noon
B. K. S. R AVINDRA,
(Acting)  Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.