

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1838$19 - 2013 fkdjeïn¾ ui 26 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2013'11'26
No. 1838/19  -  TUESDAY ,   NOVEMBER  26,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
INLAND  REVENUE  ACT,  No.  10  OF  2006
Notice
IT  is hereby notified under Section 97(1) (b) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, that the bilateral Agreement for
affording relief from double taxation and prevention of fiscal evasion, entered into on 31.01.2013 between the Government of
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is set out in the
Schedule hereto, has been approved by Parliament by resolution passed on 23.10.2013.
P . B. J
AYASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
26th November 2013.
CONVENTION
BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GRANT  DUCHY  OF  LUXEMBOURG
FOR THE  AVOIDANCE OF DOUBLE TAXATION AND THE PREVENTION OF FISCAL EVASION
WITH RESPECT TO TAXES ON INCOME   AND  ON  CAPITAL
The Government of the Grant Duchy of Luxembourg and the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
2A
Desiring to conclude a Conventon for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with
respect to taxes on income and on capital, have agreed as follows :
Have agreed as follows :
ARTICLE  1
PERSONS COVERED
This Convention shall apply to persons who are residents of one or both of the Contracing States.
ARTICLE  2
TAXES COVERED
1. This Convention shall apply to taxes on income and on capital  on behalf of a Contracting  State or of its political
subdivisions or local authorities, irrespective of the manner in which they are levied.
2. There shall be regarded as taxes on income and on capital all taxes imposed on total income, on total capital, or on
elements on income or of capital, including taxes on gains from the alienation of movable or immovable property, taxes on the
total amounts of wages or salaries paid by enterprises, as well as taxes on capital appreciation.
3. The existing taxes to which the Convention shall apply are in particular :
(a) in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg :
(i) the income tax on individuals (I" impot sur le revenu des personnes physiques) ;
(ii) the corporation tax (I" impot sur le revenu des collectivites) ;
(iii) the capital tax (I"impot sur la fortune) ; and
(iv) the communal trade tax (I"impot commercial communal) ;
(hereinafter referred to as "Luxembourg tax") '
(b) in the Democratic Socialist Republci of Sri Lanka :
(i) the income tax, including the income tax based on the turnover of enterprises entered into agreement
with the Board of  Investment.
(hereinafter referred to as "Sri Lanka tax)
4. The Convention shall apply also to any identical or substantially similar taxes that are imposed after the date of
signature of the Convention in addition to, or in place of, the existing taxes. The Competent Authorities of the Contracting
States shall notify each other of any significant changes made in their taxation laws.
ARTICLE  3
GENERAL DEFINITIONS
1. For the purposes of this Convention, unless the context otherwise requires :
(a) the term "Luxembourg"  means the Grand Duchy of Lusembourg and, when used in a geographical sence,
means the territory of the Grant Duchy of Luxembourg ;
(b) the term "Sri Lanka" means the territory of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, including its land
territory, internal waters and territorial sea, air space above them as well as the exclusive economic zone and

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
3A
continental shelf where the Democratic Sicialist Republic of Sri Lanka exercises or may hereafter exercise
sovereign rights and jurisdiction in conformity with international law and its national legislation ;
(c) the terms "a Contracting State" and "the other Contracting State" mean Luxembourg or Sri Lanka as the
context requires ;
(d) the term "person" includes an individual, a company and any other body of persons ;
(e) the term "company" means any body corporate or any entity that is treated as a body corporate for tax
purposes :
(f) the term "emterprise of  a Contracting State"  and "enterprise of the other Contracting State" mean respectively
an enterprise carried on by a resident of a Contracting State and an enterprise carried on by a resident of the
other Contracting State ;
(g) the term "international traffic" means any transport by a ship or aircraft operated by an enterprise that has
its place of effective management in a Contracting State, except when the ship or aircraft is operated solely
between places in the other Contracting State ;
(h) the term "competent authority"  means :
(i) in Luxembourg, the Minister of Finance or his authorised representative ;
(ii) in Sri Lanka, the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue or an authorised representative of the
Commissioner General ;
(i) the term "national" means :
(i) any individual possessing the nationality of  a Contracting State ;
(ii) any legal person, partnership or association deriving its satus as such from the laws in force in a
Contracting State ;
(j) the term "tax" means Sri Lankan or Luxembourg  tax, as the context requires, but shall not include any amount
which is payable in respect of any default or omission in relation to the taxes to which this Convention
applies or which represents a penalty or fine imposed relating to those taxes.
2. As regards the application of the Convention at any time by a Contracting State, any term not defined therein
shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the meaning that it has at that time under the law of that State for the
purposes of the taxes to which the Convention applies, any meaning under the applicable tax laws of that State prevailing
over a meaning given to the term under other laws of that State.
ARTICLE  4
RESIDENT
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "resident of a Contracting State" means any person who, under the
laws of that State, is liable to tax therein by reason of his domicile, residence, place of incorporation,  place of management,
or any other criterion of a similar nature and also includes that State and any political subdivision or local authority thereof.
This term, however,  does not  include any person who is liable to tax in that State in respect only of income from sources in
that State or capital situated therein.
2. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 an individual is a resident of both Contracting States, then his
status shall be determined as follows :
(a) he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the  State in which he has a permanent home available to him; if
he has a permanent home available to him in both  States, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State
with which his personal and economic relations are closer (centre of vital interests) ;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
4A
(b) if the State in which he has his centre of vital interests cannot be determined, or if he has not a permanent
home available to him in either State, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which he has an
habitual abode;
(c) if he has an habitual abode in both States or in neither of them, he shall be deemed to be a resident only of
the State of which he is a national ;
(d) if he is a national of both States or of neither of them, the competent authorities of the Contracting States
shall settle the question by mutual agreement.
3. Where by reason of the provisions of paragraph 1 a person other than an individual is a resident of both
Contracting States, then it shall be deemed to be a resident only of the State in which its place of effective management is
situated. If the State in which its place of effective management is situated cannot be determined, then the competent
authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to settle the question by mutual agreement.
ARTICLE  5
PERMANENT ESTABLISHMENT
1. For the purposes of this Convention, the term "permanent establishment" means a fixed place of business
through which the business of an enterprise is wholly or partly carried on.
2. The term "permanent establishment"  includes especially :
(a) a place of management ;
(b) a branch ;
(c) an office ;
(d) a factory ;
(e) a workshop ; and
(f) a mine, an oil or gas well, a quarry or any other place of extraction of natural resources.
3. The term "permanent establishment" likewise encompasses :
(a) a building site, a construction, assembly or installation project, a dredging project, a drilling rig or ship used
for the exploration or development of natural resources, including supervisory activities in connection
therewith, but only where such site, project or activities continue for a period of more than 183 days within
any twelve month period ;
(b) The furnishing of services, including consultancy services, by an enterprise through employees or other
personnel engaged by the enterprise for such purpose, but only where activities of  that nature continue
within the country for a period or periods aggregating more than 183 days within any twelve month
period ;
4. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, the term "permanent establishment" shall be deemed
not to include :
(a) the use of facilities solely for the purpose of storage or display of goods or merchandise belonging to the
enterprise ;
(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
storage or display ;
(c) the maintenance of a stock of goods or merchandise belonging to the enterprise solely for the purpose of
processing by another enterprise ;

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
5A
(d) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of purchasing goods or merchandise or
of collecting information, for the enterprise ;
(e) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for the purpose of carrying on, for the enterprise, any
other activity of a preparetory or auxiliary character ;
(f) the maintenance of a fixed place of business solely for any combination of activities mentioned in sub-
paragraphs (a) to (e) provided that the overall activity of the fixed place of business resulting from this
combination is of a preparatory or  auxiliary character.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, where a person-other than an agent of an independent
status to whom paragraph 7 applies-is  acting in a Contracting State on behalf of an enterprise of the other Contracting State,
that enterprise shall be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the first-mentioned Contracting State in repsect of any
activities which that person undertakes for the enterprise, if such a person :
(a) has and habitually exercises in that  State an authority to conclude contracts in the name of the enterprise,
unless the activities of such person are limited to those mentioned in paragraph 4 which, if exercised through
a fixed place of business, would not make this fixed place of business a permanent establishment under the
provisions of that paragraph ; or
(b) has no such authority, but habitually maintains in the first-mentioned State a stock of goods or merchandise
from which he regularly delivers goods or merchandise on behalf of the enterprise ;
6. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Article, an insurance enterprise of a Contracting State shall,
except in regard to re-insurance, be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting State if it collects
premiums in the territory of that other State or insures risks situated therein through a person other than an agent of an
independent status to whom paragraph 7 applies.
7. An enterprise of a Contracting State shall not be deemed to have a permanent establishment in the other Contracting
State merely because it carries on business in that other State through a broker, general commissiion agent or any other agent
of an independent status, provided that such persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business. However, when the
activities of such an agent are devoted wholly or almost wholly on behalf of that enterprise, and conditions are made or
imposed between that enterprise and the agent in their commercial and financial relations which differ from those which
would have been made between independent enterprises, he will not be considered an agent of an independent status within
the meaning of this paragraph.
8. The fact that a company which is a resident of a Contracting State controls or is controlled by a company which
is a resident of the other Contracting State or which carries on business in that other Contracting State (whether through a
permanent establishment or otherwise), shall not of itself constitute either company a permanent establishment of the other.
ARTICLE  6
I
NCOME FROM IMMOVABLE PROPERTY
1. Income derived by a resident of a Contracting State from immovable property (including income from agriculture
or forestry) situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other contracting State.
2. The term "immovable property" shall have the meaning which it has under the law of the Contracing  State in
which the property in question is situated. The term shall in any case include property accessory to immovable property,
livestock and equipment used in agruculture and forestry, rights to which the provisions of general law respecting landed
property apply, usufruct of immovable property and rights to variable or fixed payments as consideration for the woriking of,
or the right to work, mineral deposits, sources and other natural resources ; ships, boats and aircraft shall not be regarded as
immovable property.
4 —  PG 1853

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
6A
3. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply to  income derived from the direct use, letting, or use in any other form
of immovable property.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1and 3 shall also apply to the income from immovable property of an enterprise and
to income from immovable property used for the perfromance of independent personal services.
ARTICLE  7
BUSINESS PROFITS
1. The profits of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carries
on business in the other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein. If the enterprise carries on
business as aforesaid, the profits of the enterprise may be taxed in the other State but only so much of them as is attributable
to that permanent establishment.
2. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 3, where an enterprise of a Contracting State carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, there shall in each Contracing State be attributed
to that permanent establishment the profits which it might be expected to make if it were a distinct and separate enterprise
engaged in the same or similar activities under the same or similar conditions and dealing wholly independently with the
enterprise of which it is a permanent establishment.
3. In the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, there shall be allowed as deductions expenses
which are incurred for the purposes business of the permanent establishment, including executive and general administrative
expenses so incurred, whether in the State in which the permanent establishment is situated or elsewhere. However, no such
deduction shall be allowed in resepct of amounts, if any, paid (otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses) by
the permanent establishment to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or othe
similar payments in return for the use of patents or other rights, or by way of commission, for specific servicess performed or
for management, or except in the case of banking enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the permanent establishment.
Likewise, no account shall be taken, in the determination of the profits of a permanent establishment, for amounts charged
(otherwise than towards reimbursement of actual expenses), by the permanent establishment to the head office of the
enterprise or any of its other offices, by way of royalties, fees or other similar payments in return for the use of patents or
other rights, or by way of commission for specific services performed or for management, or, except in the case of a banking
enterprise, by way of interest on moneys lent to the head office of the enterprise or any of its other offices.
4. In so far as it has been customary in a Contracting State to determine the profits to be attributed to a permanent
establishment on the basis of an apportionment of the total profits of the enterprise to its various parts, nothing in paragraph
2 shall preclude that Contracting State from determining the  profits to be taxed by such an apportionment as may be
customary ; the method of apportionment adopted shall, however, be such that the result shall be in accordance with the
principles contained in this Article.
5. No profits shall be attributed to a permanent establishment by reason of the mere purchase by that permanent
establishment of goods or merchandise for the enterprise.
6. For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, the profits to be attributed to the permanent establishment shall be
determined by the same method year by year unless there is good and sufficient reason to the contrary.
7. Where profits include items of income which are dealt with separetely in other Articles of this Convention, then
the provisions of those Articles shall not be affected by the provisions of this Article.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
7A
ARTICLE  8
SHIPPING AND AIR TRANSPORT
1. Profits from the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffic shall be taxable only in the Contracting State
in which the place of effective management of the enterprise is situated.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, profits derived from the operation of ships in international traffic
may be taxed in the Contracting State in which such operation is carried on but the tax so charged shall not exceed 50 per cent
of the tax otherwise imposed by the internal law of that State.
3. If the place of effective management of a shipping enterprise is aboard a ship, then it shall be deemed to be
situated in the Contracting State in which the home harbour of the ship is situated, or, if there is no such home harbour, in the
Contracting State of which the operator of the ship is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraph 1and 2  shall also apply to profits from the participation in a pool, a joint business or
an international operating agency.
ARTICLE  9
ASSOCIA TED ENTERPRISES
1. Where :
(a) an enterprise of a Contracting State participates directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital
of an enterprise of the other Contracting State ; or
(b) the same persons participate directly or indirectly in the management, control or capital of an enterprise of a
Contracting State and an enterprise of the other Contracting State.
and in either case conditions are made or imposed between the two enterprises in their commercial or
financial relations which differ from those which would be made between independent enterprises, then any
profits which would, but for those conditions, have accrued to one of the enteprises, but, by reason of those
conditions, have not so accrued, may be included in the profits of that enterprise and taxed accordingly.
2. Where a Contracting State includes in the profits of an enterprise of that State-and taxes accordingly-profits on
which an enterprise of the other Contracting State has been charged to tax in that other  State and the profits so included are
profits which would have accrued to the enterprise of the first-mentioned State if the conditions made between the two
enterprises had been those which would have been made between independent enterprises, then that other   State shall make
an appropriate adjustment to the amount of the tax charged therein on those profits. In determining such adjustment, due
regard shall be had to the other provisions of this Convention and the competent authorities of the Contracting States shall,
if necessary, consult each other.
ARTICLE  10
DIVIDENDS
1. Dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting
State may be taxed in that other  State.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
8A
2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends
is a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the dividends is a resident of the other
Contracting State, the tax so charged shall not exceed :
(a) 7.5 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends if the benefical owner is a company (other than a partnership)
which holds directly at least 25 per cent of the capital of the company paying the dividends ;
(b) 10 per cent of the gross amount of the dividends in all other cases.
This paragraph shall not affect the taxation of the company in respect of the profits out of which the
dividends are paid.
3. The term "dividends" as used in this Article means income from shares or other  rights, not being debt-claims,
participating in profits, as well as income from other corporate rights which is subjected to the same taxation treatment as
income from shares by the laws of the State of which the company making the distribution is a resident.
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the dividends, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a
resident, through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State indepdedent personal services
from a fixed base situated therein, and the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively connected with
such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall
apply.
5. Where a company which is a resident of a Contracting State derives profits or income from the other Contracting
State, that other State may not impose any tax on the dividends paid by the company, except insofar as such dividends are
paid to a resident of that other  State or insofar as the holding in respect of which the dividends are paid is effectively
connected with a permanent establishment or a fixed base situated in that other State, nor subject the company's undistributed
profits to a tax on the company's undistributed profits, even if the dividends paid or the undistributed profits consist wholly
or partly of profits or income arising in such other  State.
ARTICLE  11
INTEREST
1. Interest arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other State.
2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of
that State, but if the beneficial owner of the interest is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall n ot
exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of the interest.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2, interest referred to in paragraph 1 shall be taxable only in the
Contracting State of which the recipient is a resident if the benefical owner of the interest is a resident of that State, and :
(a) is that State or the central bank, a political subdivision or local authority thereof ;
(b) if the interest is paid in respect of a loan, debt-claim or credit that is owed to, or made, provided, guaranteed
or insured by, that State or a political subdivision, local authority or export financing agency thereof.
4. The term "interest" as used in this Article means income from debt-claims of every kind, whether or not secured
by mortgage and whether or not carrying a right to participate in the debtor's profits, and in particular, income from Government
Securities and income from bonds or debentures, including premiums and prizes attaching to such securities, bonds or
debentures. Penalty charges for late payment shall not be regarded as interest for the purpose of this Article.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
9A
5. The provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the interest, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the interest arises, through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other  State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the debt-claim in respect of which the interest is paid is effectively connected with such permanent establishment
or fixed base. In such case, the provisions of Article 7  or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
6. Interest shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where, however,
the person paying the interest, whether he is a resident of a Contracting State or not, has in a Contracting State a permanent
establishment or a fixed base in connection with which the indebtedness on which the interest is paid was incurred, and such
interest is borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such interest shall be deemed to arise in the State in
which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated.
7. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the  benefical owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the interest, having regard to the debt-claim for which it is paid, exceeds the amount
which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the benefical owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions
of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payments shall remain
taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.
ARTICLE  12
R
OYALTIES
1. Royalties  arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that
other  State.
2. However, such royalties may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws
of that State, but if the beneficial owner of the royalties  is a resident of the other Contracting State the tax so charged shall
not exceed 10 per cent of the gross amount of such royalties.
3. The term "royalties" as used in this Article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of,
or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientific work  including  cinematograph films or films or tapes  used
for television or radio  braodcasting, any patent, trade mark, design or model,  computer sfotware, plan, secret formula or
process, or for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientific experience ;
4. The provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall not apply if the beneficial owner of the royalties, being a resident of
a Contracting State, carries on business in the other Contracting State in which the roylaties arise through a permanent
establishment situated therein, or performs in that other  State independent personal services from a fixed base situated
therein, and the  right or property in respect of which the royalties are paid is effectively connected with such permanent
establishment or fixed base.  In such case, the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14, as the case may be, shall apply.
5. Royalties shall be deemed to arise in a Contracting State when the payer is a resident of that State. Where,
however, the person paying the royalties, whether he is a resident of a Contracting  State or not, has in a Contracting State
a permanent  establishment or  a fixed base in connection with which the liability to pay the royalties was incurred, and such
royalties are borne by such permanent establishment or fixed base, then such royalties shall be deemed to arise in the  State
in which the permanent establishment or fixed base is situated ;
6. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the beneficial owner or between both of them
and some other person, the amount of the royalties, having regard to the use, right or information for which they are paid,
exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the beneficial owner in the absence of such
relationship, the provisions of this Article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the
payments shall remain taxable according to the laws of each Contracting State, due regard being had to the  other provisions
of this Convention.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
10A
ARTICLE  13
CAPITAL GAINS
1. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of immovable property referred to in  Article
6 and situated in the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other State.
2. Gains from the alienation of movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracing State or of movable property pertaining to a fixed base
available to a resident of a Contrating State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independent
personal services, including such gains from the alienation of such a permanent establishment (alone or with the whole
enterprise) or of such fixed base, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Gains derived by a resident of a Contracting State from the alienation of shares or other corporate rights participating
in profits of a company more than 50 per cent of the value of which is derived directly or indirectly from immovable property
situated in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State. However, this paragraph does not apply to gains
derived from the alienation of shares :
(a) quoted on a recognised stock exchange of one of the States ; or
(b) alienated or exchanged in the frame  work of a reorganisation of a company, of a merger, of a scission, or of
a similar operation ; or
(c) 75 per cent or more of the value of which is derived from immovable property through which the company
carries out its activity ; or
(d) owned by a person who owns directly less than 75 per cent of the capital of the company of which the shares
have been alienated.
4. Gains from the alienation of ships or aircraft operated in international traffic or movable property pertaining to the
operation of such ships of aircraft, shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the place of effective management
of the enterprise is situated.
5. Gains from the alienation of any property other than that  referred to in  paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4  shall be taxable
only in the Contracting State of which the alienator is a rsesident.
ARTICLE  14
INDEPENDENT PERSONAL SERVICES
1. Income derived by an individual who is a resident of a Contracting State from the performance of  professional
services  or other  independent activities of a similar character shall be taxable only in that State except in the following
circumstances when such income may also be taxed in the other Contracting State :
(a) if he  has a fixed base regularly available to him in the other Contracting  State for the purpose of performing
his activities ; in that case, only so much of the income as is attributable to that fixed base may be taxed in
that other Contracting State ; or
(b) If  his stay in the other Contracting State is for a period or periods amounting to or exceeding in the aggregate
183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned ; in that case, only
so much of the income as is derived from his activities performed in that other Contracting State may be taxed
in that other State.
2. The term "professional services" includes especially independent scientific, literary, artistic, educational or
teaching activities as well as the independent activities of physicians, lawyers, engineers, architects, dentists and accountants.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
11A
ARTICLE  15
DEPENDENT PERSONAL SERVICES
1. Subject to the provisions of Articles 16, 18 and 19, salaries, wages and other similar remuneration derived by a
resident of a Contracting State in respect of an employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is
exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is so exercised, such remuneration as is derived there from may be
taxed in that other  State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, remuneration derived by a resident of a Contracting State in
respect of an employment exercised in the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-mentioned State if :
(a) the recipient is present in the other Contracting State for a period or periods not exceeding in the aggregate
183 days in any twelve month period commencing or ending in the fiscal year concerned ; and
(b) the remuneration is paid by, or on behalf of, an employer who is not a resident of that other Contracting
State ; and
(c) the remuneration is not borne by a permanent establishment or a fixed base which the employer has in that
other Contracting State.
3. Notwithstading the preceding provisions of this Article, remuneration derived in respect of an employment
exercised aboard a ship or aircraft operated in international traffic, may be taxed in the Contracting State in which the place of
effective management of the enterprie is situated.
ARTICLE  16
DIRECTORS' FEES
Directors' fees and other similar payments derived by a resident of a Contracting State in his capacity as a member
of the board of directors or any other similar organ of a company which is a resident of the other Contracting State may be
taxed in that other State.
ARTICLE  17
ARTISTES AND SPORTSPERSONS
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 14 and 15, income derived by a resident of a Contracting State as an
entertainer, such as a theatre, motion picture, radio or television artiste, or a musician, or as a sportsperson, from his personal
activities as such exercised in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Where income in respect of personal activities exercised by an entertainer or a sportsperson in his capacity as
such accrues not to the entertainer or sportsperson himself but to another person, that income may, notwithstanding the
provisions of Articles 7, 14 and 15  be taxed in the Contracting State in which the activities of the entertainer or sportsperson
are exercised.
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2, income derived from activities referred to in paragraph 1
performed under a cultural agreement or arrangement between the Contracting States shall be exempt from tax  in the
Contracting State in which the activities are exercised if the visit to that State is wholly or substantially supported by funds
of  either Contracting State, a political subdivision,  local authority or public institution thereof.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
12A
ARTICLE  18
PENSIONS
1. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 19, pensions and other similar remuneration paid to a resident
of a Contracting State in consideration of past employment shall be taxable only in that State.
2. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions  paid and other payments made under the social
security lelgislation of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
3. Annuities arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in the
first-mentioned State.
4. The term "annuity" means a stated sum payable periodically at stated times during life or during a specified or
ascertainable period of time under an obligation to make the payments in return for adequate and full consideration in money
or money's worth.
5. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1, pensions and other similar remuneration (including lump-sum
payments) arising in a Contracting State and paid to a resident of the other Contracting State shall be taxable only in the first-
mentioned State, provided that such payments derive from contributions paid to or from provisions made under a pension
scheme by the recipient or on his behalf and that these contributions, provisions or the pensions or other similar remuneration
have been subjected to tax in the first-mentioned State under the ordinary rules of its tax laws.
ARTICLE  19
GOVERNMENT SERVICE
1. (a) Salaries, wages and other similar remuneration paid by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or a
local authority thereof to an individual respect of services rendered to that State or subdivision or  authority,
shall be taxable only in that State ;
(b) However, such salaries, wages and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting
State if the services are rendered in that  State and the  individual is a resident of that State who :
(i) is a national of that State ; or
(ii) did not become a resident of that State solely for the purpose of rendering the services.
2.  (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of  a paragraph 1, pensions and other similar remuneration paid by, or out of
funds created by a Contracting State or a political  subdivision or a local authority thereof to an  individual
in respect of services rendered to that State or  subdivision or authority shall be taxable only in that State ;
(b) However, such pensions and other similar remuneration shall be taxable only in the other Contracting State
if the individual is a resident of, and a national of, that other State.
3. The provisions of Articles 15, 16, 17 and 18 shall apply to salaries, wages, pensions  and other similar remuneration
in respect of services rendered in connection with a business carried on by a Contracting State or a political subdivision or
a local authority thereof.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
13A
ARTICLE  20
STUDENTS AND TRAINEES
Payments which a student, apprentice or business trainee who is or was immediately before visiting a Contracting
State a resident of the other Contracting State and who is present in the first-mentioned State solely for the purpose of his
education or training receives for the purpose of his maintenance, education or training shall not be taxed in that State,
provided that such payments arise from sources outside that State.
ARTICLE  21
O
THER INCOME
1. Items of income of a resident of a Contracting State, wherever arising, not dealt with in the foregoing Articles of
this Convention shall be taxable only in that State.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall not apply to income, other than income from immovable property as defind in
paragraph 2 of Aritcle 6, if the recipient of such income, being a resident of a Contracting State, carries on business in the
other Contracting State through a permanent establishment situated therein, or performs in that other State independent
personal services from a fixed base situated therein, and the right or property in respect of which the income is paid is
effectively connected with such permanent establishment or fixed base. In such case the provisions of Article 7 or Article 14,
as the case may be, shall apply.
ARTICLE  22
C
APITAL
1. Capital represented by immovable property referred to in Article 6, owned by a resident of a Contracting State and
situated in the other Contracting State, may be taxed in that other State.
2. Capital represented by movable property forming part of the business property of a permanent establishment
which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting State or by movable property pertaining to a fixed base
available to a resident of a Contracting State in the other Contracting State for the purpose of performing independent
personal services, may be taxed in that other State.
3. Capital represented by ships and aircraft operated in international traffic and by movable property pertainng to
the operation of such ships and aircraft, shall be taxable only in the Contracting State in which the place of effective
management of the enterprise is situated.
4. All other elements of captal of a resident of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State.
ARTICLE  23
E
LIMINATION OF DOUBLE TAXA TION
1. Subject to the provisions of the law of Luxembourg regarding the elimination of double taxation which shall not
affect the general principle hereof, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows :
(a) Where a resident of  Luxembourg derives income or owns capital which, in accordance with the provisions
of this Convention, may be taxed in Sri Lnaka, Luxembourg shall, subject to the provisions of Sub-paragraphs
(b), (c) and (d), exempt such income or capital from tax, but may, in order to calculate the amount of tax on the
remaining income or capital of the resident, apply the same rates of tax as if the income or capital had not
been exempted ;

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
14A
(b) Where a resident of Luxembourg derives income which, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 8, 10,
11, 12 and 17 may b e taxed in Sri Lanka, Luxembourg shall allow as a deduction form the income tax on
individuals or from the corporation tax of that resident an amount equal to the tax paid in Sri Lanka. Such
deduction shall not, however, exceed that part of the tax, as computed before the deduction is given, which
is attributable to such items of income derived from Sri Lanka ;
(c) Where a company which is a resident of Luxembourg derives dividends from Sri Lanka sources, Luxembourg
shall exempt such dividends from tax accordingly to its national tax law, provided that the company which is
a resident of Luxembourg holds directly at least 10 per cent of the capital of the company paying the
dividends since the beginning of the accounting year and if this company is subject in Sri Lnaka to income
tax. The above-mentioned shares in the Sri Lanka company are, under the same conditions, exempt from the
Luxembourg capital tax. This exemption shall also apply notwithstanding that the Sri Lanka company is
exempted from tax or taxed at a reduced rate under the Sri Lanka legal provisions for tax incentives ;
(d) The provisions of Sub-paragraph (a) shall not apply to income derived or capital owned by a resident of
Luxembourg where Sri Lanka applies the provisions of this Convention to exempt such income or capital
from tax or applies the provisions of paragraph 2 of Article 10, 11 or 12 such income.
2. In Sir Lanka, double taxation shall be eliminated as follows :
(a) The laws in force in Sri Lanka shall continue to govern the taxation of income or capital in Sri Lanka subject
to the provisions of this Convention. When income or capital is subject to tax in Luxembourg, relief form
double taxation shall be given in accordance with the following Sub-paragraph ;
(b) Where a resident of Sri Lanka derives income from Luxembourg or owns capital in Luxembourg which in
accordance with the provisions of this Convention may be taxed in Luxembourg, the amount of Luxembourg
tax payable in respect of that income or capital, shall be allowed as a credit against the Sri Lanka tax imposed
on that resident in respect of that income or capital. The credit shall not, however, exceed that part of the Sri
Lanka tax which is attributable to such income or capital.
3. For the purpose of allowance as a credit in a Contracting State, the tax paid in the other Contracting State shall be
deemed to include the tax which is otherwise payable in that other State but has been reduced or waived by that State under
its legal provisions for tax incentives.
The provision of this paragraph shall apply for a period of 10 years. This period may be extended by mutual
agreement between the competent authorities.
ARTICLE  24
NON-DISCRIMINATION
1. Nationals of a Contracting State shall not be subjected in the other Contracting State to any taxation or any
requirement connected therewith, which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected requirements to which
nationals of that other State in the same circumstances, in particular with respect to residence, are or may be subjected. This
provision shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 1, also apply to persons who are not residents of one or both of the
Contracting States.
2. The taxation on a permanent establishement which an enterprise of a Contracting State has in the other Contracting
State shall not be less favourably levied in that other Contracting State than the taxation levied on enterprises of that other
Contracting State carrying on the same activities. This provision shall not be construed as obliging a Contracting State to
grant to residents of the other Contracting State any personal allowances, relief and reductions for taxation purposes on
account of civil status or family responsiblities which it grants to its own residents.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
15A
3. Except where the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 9, paragraph 7 of Article 11, or paragraph 6 of Article 12,
apply, interest, royalties and other disbursements paid by an enterprise of a Contracing State to a resident of the other
Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determining the taxable profits of such enterprise, be deductible under the same
conditions as if they had been paid to a resident of the first-mentioned State. Similarly, any debts of an enterprise of a
Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State shall, for the purpose of determinig the taxable capital of such
enterprise, be deductible under the same conditions as if they had been contracted to a resident of the first-mentioned State.
4. Enterprises of a Contracting State, the capital of which is wholly or partly owned or controlled, directly or
indirectly, by one or more residents of the other Contracting State, shall not be subjected in the first-mentioned State to any
taxation or any requirement connected therewith which is other or more burdensome than the taxation and connected
requirements to which other similar enterprises of the first-mentioned State are or may be subjected.
5. The provisions of this Article shall, notwithstanding the provisions of Article 2, apply to taxes of every kind and
description.
ARTICLE  25
M
UTUAL AGREEMENT PROCEDURE
1. Where a person  considers that the actions of one or both of the Contracting States result or will result for him in
taxation not in accordance with the provisions of this Convention, he may, irrespective of the remedies provided by the
domestic law of those States, present his case to the competent authority of the Contracting State of which he is a resident
or, if his case comes under paragraph 1 of Article 24,   to that of  the Contracting State of which he is a national. The case must
be presented within three years from the first notification of the action resulting in taxation not in accordance with the
provisions of the Convention.
2. The competent authority shall endeavour, if the objection appears to it to be justified and if it is not itself able to
arrive at a satisfactory solution, to resolve the case by mutual agreement with the competent authority of the other Contracitng
State, with a view to the avoidance of taxation which is not in accordance with the Convention. Any agreement reached shall
be implemented notwithstanding any time limits in the domestic law of the Contracting States.
3. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall endeavour to resolve by mutual Agreement any
difficulties or doubts arising as to the interpretation or application of  the Convention. They may also consult together for the
elimination of double taxation in cases not provided for in the Convention.
4. The competent authorities of the Contracting States may communicate with each other directly for the purpose of
reaching an Agreement in the sense of the preceding paragraphs. The competent Authorities may have bilateral consultations
for the implementation of the mutual agreement procedure provided for in this Article.
ARTICLE  26
E
XCHANGE OF INFORMATION
1. The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as is foreseeable relevant
for a carrying out the provisions of this Convention or to the administrtion or enforcement of the domestic laws concerning
taxes of every kind and description imposed on behalf of the Contracting States, or of their political subdivisions or local
authorities, insofar as the taxation thereunder is not contrary to the Convention. The exchange of information is not restricted
by Articles 1 and 2.
2. Any information received under paragraph 1 by a Contracting State shall be treated as secret in the same manner
as information obtained under the domestic laws of that State and shall be disclosed only to persons or authorities (including
courts and administrative bodies) concerned with the assessment or collection of, the enforcement or prosecution in respect

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
16A
of, the determination of appeals in relation to the taxes referred to in paragraph 1, or the oversight of the above. Such persons
or authorities shall use the information only for such purposes. They may disclose the information in public court proceedings
or in judicial decisions.
3. In no case shall the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 be construed so as to impose on a Contracting State the
obligation :
(a) to carry out administrative measures at variance with the laws and administrative practice of that or of the
other Contracting State ;
(b) to supply infomration which is not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course of the administration of
that or of the other Contracting State ;
(c) to supply information which would disclose any trade business, industrial, commercial or professional
secret or trade process, or information the disclosure of which would be contrary to publc policy ( ordre
public).
4. If information is requested by a Contracting State in accordance with this Article, the other Contracting State shall
use its information gathering measures to botain the requested information, even though that other State may not need such
information for its own tax purposes. The obligation contained in the preceding sentence is subject to the limitations of
paragraph 3 but in no case shall such limitations be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply information
solely because it has no domestic interest in such information.
5. In no case shall the provisions of paragraph 3 be construed to permit a Contracting State to decline to supply
informatin upon request solely because the information is held by a bank, other financial institution, nominee or person
acting in an agency or a fiduciary capacity or because it relates to ownership interests in a person.
ARTICLE  27
MEMBERS OF DIPLOMA TIC MISSIONS AND CONSULAR POSTS
Nothing in this Convention shall effect the fiscal privileges of members of diplomatic missions or consular posts
under the general rules of international law or under the provisions of special agreements.
ARTICLE  28
ENTRY INTO FORCE
1.  The Contracting States shall notify each other in writing, through diplomatic channels, that the procedures
required by its law for the entry into force of this Convention have been satisfied. The Convention shall enter into force on
the thirtieth day after the day of receipt of the last notification.
2. The Convention shall have effect :
(a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, to income derived on or after 1st January of the calendar year next
following the year  in which the Convention enters into force ;
(b) in respect of other taxes on income, and taxes on capital, to taxes chargeable for any taxable year beginning
on or after 1st January of the calendar year next following  the year in which the Convention enters into force.

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
17A
ARTICLE  29
TERMINATION
1. This Convention shall remain in force until terminated by a Contracting State. Either Contracting State may
terminate the Convention, through diplomatic channels, by giving notice of termination at least six months before the end of
any calendar year beginning after the expiration of a period of five years from the date of its entry into force.
2. The Convention shall cease to have effect :
(a) in respect of taxes withheld at source, to income derived on or after 1st January of the calendar year next
following the year in which the notice is given ;
(b) in respect of other taxes on income and  taxes on capital, to taxes chargeable for any taxable year  beginning
on or after 1st January of the calendar year next following the year in which the notice is given.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto have signed this  Convention.
Done in duplicate at Luxembourg on this 31st day of  January 2013, in the Sinhala, French and  English languages,
all texts being equally authentic. In case of divergence of the interpretation or application of the Convention,  the English text
shall prevail.
P . M. Amza Lucfrieden
the Ambassodor of Brussels for Sri Lanka Minister of Finance
For the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic For the Government of the Grand Duchy of
of Sri Lanka. Luxembourg
PROTOCOL
At the signing of the Convention between the Government of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and the Government
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion
with respect to taxes on income and on capital, both sides have agreed upon the following provisions, which shall form an
integral part of the Convention :
(i) with reference to Aeticle 4 :
A collective investment vehicle which is established in a Contracting State and that is treated as a body
corporate for tax purposes in this Contracting State shall be considered as a resident of the Contracting State
in which it is eatablished and as the beneficial owner of the income it receives.
(ii) With reference to Article 26 :
The competent authority of the applicant State shall provide the following information to the competent
authority of the requested State when making a request for information under the Convention to demonstrate
the foreseeable relevance of the information to the request :
(a) the identity of the person under examination or investigation ;
(b) a statement of the information sought including its nature and the form in which the applicant State
wishes to receive the information from the requested State ;
(c) the tax purpose for which the information is sought ;

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'11'26
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 26.11.2013
18A
(d) grounds for believing that the information requested is held in the requested State or is in the possession
or control of a person within the jurisdiction of the requested State ;
(e) to the extent known the name and address of any person believed to be in possession of the requested
information ;
(f) a statement that the applicant State has pursued all means available in its own territory to obtain the
information, except those that would give rise to disproportionate difficulties.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, duly authorized thereto, have signed this Protocol.
Done  in duplicate at Luxembourg on this 31st day of  January 2013, in the Sinhala, French and  English languages,
all texts being equally authentic. In case of deivergence of the interpretation or application of the Convention.  the English
text shall prevail.
P . M. Amza Lucfrieden
the Ambassodor of Brussels for Sri Lanka Minister of Finance
For the Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic For the Government of the Grand Duchy of
of Sri Lanka. Luxembourg
12 - 505
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT  OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.