

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Presented by Hon. Hunais Farook M. P. for Vanni District
on 09th January, 2013
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
——————
——————
[Bill No. 200]
——————
(Published in the Gazette on December 31, 2012)
BILL
A
UNITED MUSLIM UMMAH
(INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the United Muslim Ummah

<!-- page 2 -->

1United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation)
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE UNITED MUSLIM UMMAH
WHEREAS an Organization called and known as the   “United
Muslim Ummah”,  has heretofore been formed in Sri Lanka
for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects and
transacting all matters connected with the said institution
according to the rules agreed to by its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established, and has applied to
be incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to
grant the said application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation) Act, No.    of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many person as now are members of the “United
Muslim Ummah” (hereinafter referred to as the
“organization”) or shall hereafter be admitted as members of
the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate
with perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“United Muslim Ummah”  (hereinafter referred to as the
"Corpotration") and by that name may sue and be sued, with
full power and authority to have and use a common seal and
to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to strive towards building national integration;
(b) to strive to establish a true pluralistic society in Sri
Lanka;
2—PL 006797—75 (11/2012)
Short title.
Incorporation
of United
Muslim
Ummah.
10
Preamble.
5
15
20
25 General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation)
2
(c) to help to maintain the distinct identity of the different
communities and foster and promote friendship for
peaceful co-existence;
(d) to resolve disputes among the Muslims at regional
level;
(e) to contribute to the social and economic uplift of the
country;
(f) to assist in scholarship, cash or kind for the voluntary
employees and other employees who are engaged in
the attainment of the objectives of the Corporation ;
(g) to plan and implement community welfare, eucational
and social development projects in Sri Lanka ;
(h) to promote education, health, recreation, culture and
agriculture, to provide grants, scholarships, gifts,
donations and financial assistance for the
improvement, extension and publicize knowledge
and to establish institutions for this purpose; and
(i) to do all such other acts and things as are necessary
for and incidental or conducive to the attainment of
the above objects.
4. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall, subject to the provision of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
vested in a Board of Management (hereinafter referre to as
the "Board") consisting of the office bearers and such other
persons as may be provided for in such rules and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of Management of the Corporation
shall consist of the members of the Board of the Institution
holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
10
5
15
20
25
30
Management
of the affiairs
of the
Corporation

<!-- page 4 -->

3United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation)
5. Subject to the provision of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute, all such acts and matters as necessary or
desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objects of
the Corporation or any one of them, including the powers:—
(a) to raise funds and receive grants, gifts or donations
in cash or kind whether from local or foreign sources ;
(b) to acquire, in any manner whatsoever and hold, take
or give on lease or hire, rent, sell or otherwise dispose
of any movable or immovale property and construct,
maintain and alter any buildings or works necessary
or convenient for the business of the Corporation ;
(c) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,
buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,
promissory notes and other negotiable instruments
and to open, operate and close bank accounts and
borrow or raise money with or without security ;
(d) to invest any funds not immediately required for
the purposes of the Corporation in such manner as
the Board of Management may determine;
(e) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons for the implementation of these
objects; and
(f) appoint employ, dismiss or terminate the services
of officers and servants of the Corporation and to
pay them such salaries, allowances and gratuities as
may be determined by the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by the votes of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provision of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matter:–
10
5
15
20
25
30
Rules of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation)
4
(a) the classification of membership, fees payable by
each class of members and admission, withdrawal,
expulsion or resignation of members and for the
maintaining of register of members;
(b) the election of office bearers of the Board or vacation
of or removal from, office and the powers, duties
and functions of the office bearers;
(c) the appointment, powers, duties and functions and
conditions of the various officers, agents and servants
of the Corporation;
(d) the procedure to be followed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Board, the Corporation
and any sub-committee thereof, including the
quorum therefore and the conduct of business
thereat;
(e) the qualifications and disqualifications for members
of the Board and the Corporation; and
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation for the accomplishment of the
objects of the Corporation.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection(1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall at all time be
subject to rules of the Corporation made under this section.
(4) The rules of the Foundation in force on the day
preceding to date of commencement of this Act, shall in so
far as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act
or any other written law, be deemed to be rules of the
Corporation. made under this section.
10
5
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation)
7. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) the Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be kept
of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all other
transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor as may be determined by the Board.
In this section "qualified auditor" means–
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered accountants of Sri Lanka, or any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
8. The Moneys and property of the Corporation however
derived shall be applied solely towards the promotion of its
objects as set forth herein, and no portion thereof shall be
paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend,
loan bonus or otherwise, howsoever, by way of profit, to the
members of the Corporation.
Provided however, that the provision of this section shall
not prohibit–
(a) the payment, in good faith, of reasonable and proper
remuneration to any officer or servants of the
Corporation for any services rendered by him to the
Corporation;
10
5
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit.
Corporation
to be a non
profit
making.

<!-- page 7 -->

United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation)
6
10
5
15
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
(b) the payment of reasonable and proper rent for
premises let to the Corporation or by any company
of which a member of the Corporation is a
shareholder; and
(c) the reimbursement or repayment of reasonable and
proper expenses incurred, with the prior approval of
the Board of Management, by any member, officer
or servant of the Corporation in the discharge or
performance of  his functions or duties or in
promoting the objects of the Corporation.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to any
instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of the Secretary
or a member of the Board as may be duly authorized by the
Board and another member of the Board who shall sign their
names on the instrument in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness
10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation but shall
be given or transferred to some other institute or institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members. Such
institution or institutions shall be determined by the Board
at or immediately before the dissolution of the Corporation.
11. Nothing  in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other person, except such as are mentioned
in this Act and those claiming by from or under them.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
20
25
30
Saving of the
Rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistancy.

<!-- page 8 -->

7United Muslim Ummah
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .