

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
w;s úfYI
wxl 1767$26 - 2012 cQ,s 19 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'07'19
No. 1767/26  - THURSDAY ,  JULY  19,  2012
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Statute No. 01 of 1989 of the Uva Provincial Council Emergency Fund
IT is notified that the above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, has been approved
by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Provincial on the date 11th of July 1989 and which is hereby publiched for the notification
of the public.
W. M. M. G .  A
BEYSINGHE BANDA,
Secretary,
Provincial Council of  the Uva Province.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council
King’s Street,
Badulla,
05th of July 2012.
EMERGENCY  FUND
S
TA TUTE NO. 01 OF 1989 OF THE UVA PROVINCE
A statute for the establishment of an emergency fund under Section 20(1) of the Provincial Council Act No. 42 of
1987 and for matters connected therewith or incidential thereto.
Be it passed by the Provincial Council of the Uva Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows ;
1. This statute may be cited as the “Emergency Fund Statute No. 01 of 1989” and shall come into
operation on the date of receiving the assent of the Governor.
2. (1) an “Emergency Fund of the Uva Province (hereinafter referred to as the “Fund”) is hereby
established for the purpose of meeting unforeseen Expenditure.
Short Title.
Emergency fund
of the Province.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
2A
(2) A sum of two (2) Million Rupees shall be paid out of the provincial fund to the find and such
sum shall form part of the fund.
(3) There shall be paid into thefund all such moneys as may from time to time be determined by
statute made by the Provincial Council of the Province.
3. The provisions of Sub-section (2) of   Section  20 of the Provincial Councils Act No. 42 of 1987
shall apply to advances made out of the Fund.
4. The custody of the Fund shall be under the Governor and all advances there from shall be made
by him.
Section shall be
applied to
advances from
the fund.
Custody of the
fund to be under
the Governor.
08 - 122/1
PROVINCIAL COUNCILS (PAYMENT OF SALALARIES AND ALLOWANCES) STATUTE NO. 02 OF
1990
A statute to provide for the salaries and allowances to be paid to the Chairman and Deputy
Chairman of the Provincial Council of the Uva Province.
Be it passed by the Provincial Council of the Uva Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka as follows ;
1. The statute may be cited as the Uva Provincial Council  (Payment of  Salaries and Allowances)
Statute No. 02 of 1990 and shall come into operation on the date of receiving the assent of the Governor of
the Province.
2. From and after the date of coming into operation of this statute, the monthly salary and all other
allowances payable to,
(a) The chairman of the Provincial Council shall be the monthly salary and allowances equal
to the monthly salary and all other allowances currently payable to the minister of the
provincial Council and
Short title and
date of
Operation.
Salaries and
Allowances
payable to the
Chairman and
Deputy
Chairman.
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Statute No. 02 of 1990 of the Provincial Council of the Uva Provincial (Payment of Salaries and Allowances)
IT is notified that the above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, has been approved
by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Provincial on the date 20th of  April 1990 and which is hereby publiched for the notification
of the public.
W. M. M. G .  A
BEYSINGHE BANDA,
Secretary,
Provincial Council of  the Uva Province.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council
King’s Street,
Badulla,
05th of July 2012.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
Salaries and
Allowances to be
charged
expenditure
provincial Fund
of a Province.
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Statute No. 02 of 1993 of the Uva Provincial Council Chief Minister’s Fund
IT is notified that the above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, has been approved
by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Provincial on the date 21st of  October 1993 and which is hereby publiched for the
notification of the public.
W. M. M. G .  A
BEYSINGHE BANDA,
Secretary,
Provincial Council of  the Uva Province.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council
King’s Street,
Badulla,
05th of July 2012.
A  STATUTE  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  ESTABLISHMENT  OF  A  FUND  CALLED  “THE  CHIEF  MINISTER’S  FUND’
FOR THE  PROVISION  OF  RELIEF  OF  PROVERTY ,  FOR  THE  ADV ANCEMENT  OF  EDUCATION  OR  KNOWLEDGE,
FOR  THE  ADV ANCEMENT  OF  RELIGION,  FOR  THE  MAKING  OF  AWARDS
TO  PERSONS  WHO  HA VE  SERVED  THE PROVINCE  AND  FOR  OTHER  PURPOSES BENEFICIAL
OR  OF  INTEREST  TO  THE  PUBLIC  IN  THE  PROVINCE;  AND  TO PROVIDE
FOR  MATTERS  CONNECTED  THEREI  WITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
Be it enacted by the Provincial Council of the Uva Province.
1. This Statute may be cited as the Chief Minister’s Fund Statute No. 02 of 1993.
2. (1) There shall be established a Fund called “The Chief Minister’s Fund (here in after referred to as “The Fund”.
(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it, be a body corporate, and shall have perpetual succession and a
common seal and may Sue and be sued in such name.
3. (1) The administration, management and the capital of the Fund shall be vested in a Board of Governors constituted
as hereinafter provided,
(b) The deputy chairman of the provincial council shall be the monthly salary and allowances
equal to fifity per cent of the monthly salary and all other allowances currently payable to
a Deputy Minister of a Line Ministry.
3. The salaries and allowances payable under this Statute to the Chairman and Deputy Chairman
of the Provincial Council to be expenditure charged on the Provincial Fund of the Province.
08 - 122/2

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
4A
(2) The Board of Governors of the Fund (hereinafter reffered to as “The board”) shall consist of -
(a) the Chief Miniser of the Province ;
(b) a nominee of the Governor of the Province ;
(c) a Member of the Provincial Council appointed by the Chief Miniser nominated by the opposition or who will
represent the opposition ;
(d) two others a pointed by the Chief Minister of the Province for a period not exceeding three years.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (d) of  Sub-Section 2, the Chief Minister may revok the appointment
of any member appointed by him under paragraph ( d) of that subsection.
(4) The Board may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.
(5) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed to be invalid by reason of an existance of a vacancy among
its members or any derect in the appointment of a member thereof.
(6) The Chief Minister shall be the  Chairman of the Board.
4. (1) Th Board shall, for the administrtion and in the name of the Fund, have the power to -
(a) Purchase hold or manage property, whether movable or immovable ;
(b) sell, mortgage, exchange or otherwise dispose of, or deal with, any property, whether movable or immovble,
to which the Fund may become entitled ;
(c) perform all such acts or things as may be necessary to give effect to the provisions of this Statute.
5. There shall be credited to the Fund, all monies it may receive by way of grants, donations or gifts.
6. The Board shall maintain an account called “The Chief Minister’s Fund Account” at a reputed Bank; and there
shall be credited to such account, all monies that may accrue to the Fund after the date of commencement of this Statute.
7. It shall be the duty of the Board to apply the monies belonging to the Fund in such manner as the Board may
determine -
(a) for the relief of poverty ; or
(b) for the advancement of education or knowledge ; or
(c) for the advancement of religion or the maintenance of religious rites and practices.
8.  Any monies belonging to the Fund may be invested by the Board in such manner as the Board may determine.
9. The Board shall have the power -
(a) to appoint such officers and servants of the Fund as may be necessary for the determination and management
of the affiairs of the Fund ;
(b) to determine the remuneration payable to the officers and servants so appointed ;

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
(c) to pay such remuneration and other expenses incurred in the administration of the affairs of the Fund, out of
the income of the Fund.
10. (1) The Board shall cause proper accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities and all
other transaction of the Fund and cause annual accounts to be prepared.
(2) The Auditor General shall audit the accounts of the Fund every year. For the purpose of assisting him in the audit
of such accounts, the Auditor General may employ the services of any qualified auditor who shall act uhder his direction and
control. The Auditor General shall transmit his report containing the results of the audit to the Governor of the Province who
shall cause such report to be placed before the Provincial Council
(3) For the purpose of meeting the expenses incurred by him in the audit of such accounts of the Fund, the Auditor
General shall be paid out of the income of the Fund, such remuneration as the Board may determine. Any remuneration
received from the Fund by the  Auditor General shall, after the deduction therefrom on any sums paid by him to any qualified
auditor or auditors employed by him for the purposes of such audit, be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
(4) In this section, the expression “qualified auditor” means -
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Insitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
11. Subject to the provisions of this Statute and of any written law, the Board may make such rules as it may consider
necessary in relation to any matter affecting or connected with, or incidental to, the exercise, discharge and performance of
the powers, functions and duties.
12. North Central Province Cheif Minister’s Fund Statute No. 16 of 1991 is hereby repealed.
08 - 122/3
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Statute No. 05 of 2000 of the Uva Provincial Council
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  LIBRARY  SERVICES
IT is notified that the above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, has been approved
by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Provincial on the date 10th of  October 2003 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
W. M. M. G .  A
BEYSINGHE BANDA,
Secretary,
Provincial Council of  the Uva Province.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
King’s Street,
Badulla,
05th of July 2012.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
6A
LIBRARY STATUTE OF THE UVA PROVINCE
01.  Short title : This statute is cited as a statute for Uva Provincial Library Services. Boar,  No. 05 of 2000.
02. Introduction :
A Statute to build up an appropriate organizational structure for the purpose of carrying out a systematic
library service in the Uva Province, the objectives of which are to fulfill the rader needs, to update and systematize  the
knowledge, understanding data and information needed for all development and educational  purposes of the libraries
in the Uva Province ; to maintain systematically and unitarily all activities needed for the services, materials, buildings
and the supply of books ; to provide for provisions needed for the employment, duties, services and disciplinary
control of employee grades in the services related to library service and to fulfill the vocational knowledge and training
needs of employee grades.
The Statute is passed in the Provincial Council of the Uva Province of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
03. Objectives :
(i) Co-ordination and development of library and information service of the Uva Province ;
(ii) Organizing ducumentation services, and assisting to authours who are interested ducumentation and
publishing schools in the province.
(a) Maintain and develoop libraries/documentation centres ;
(b) Conservation of books and documents ;
(c) Organize documentation service and publish secondary level publications ;
(d) Make available reading material and apparatus and organize exhibitions, conferences and projects ;
(e) Carry out educational and awareness programmes ;
(f) Preparation of recruitment, and promotion procedure for the liabrarians and staffs for the liabraries of
the province and conducting relevant examinations,
Code of procedure for the employment, promotion and disciplinary control of the libraries and other
employees and inquiries regarding them ;
(g) Establish and maintain a library development fund
(
h) Make provision for all co-ordination work to maintain every type of (non-private) library facilities in the
province ;
(i) Collective reimbursement planning essential for library service project, cultural and acceptance work,
inter-library exchange and loan services, establishment of mobile library service establishment of
introductory network, establishment of library work planning and data units and maintenance
services  ;
(j) Supply of books instruments and material needed for the libraries and prepare formal places for same;
(k) Maintain various activities needed for carrying out the main objectives and activities and form sub-
rules and regulations (needed) for same
3 —  PG 001339

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
04. Structure :
This statute may be cited as the Public Library Statute No. of  2000 of the Uva Provincial Council and will come
into operation an the date of assent by the Governor.
The following institutes/units are established subjected to the following regulations for the purposes prescribed
by the statute.
1. Provincial library service board and an administrative unit consisting of a permanent carder.
2. A Provincial central library associated to the provincial library service board.
3. Two district central libraries for Monaragala and Budulla districts.
It may be established the under mentioned institutions or units for the purposes set out in this statute and in
accordance with the succeeding provisions -
(i) Provincial Library services Board and an administrative unit with a permanent staff ;
(ii) District Central Libraries for the Districts for Badulla and Monaragala ;
(iii) A Provincial Council Library affiliated to the Provincial Library Services Board ;
(iv) Regional Central Libraries (when there are more than one district for a Provincial Council) ;
(v) Public Libraries (School Libraries) ;
(vi) Information and date units ;
(vii) A Provincial Library Fund.
PART I
05. Establishment of Uva Provincial library service consultative board and consultative committees.
Consultative body forthe Provincial library service board.
To Provide to the Uva Provincial library service board guidance when necessary, a board is appointed consisting of
the following members.
(1) Two members of the Provincial Council, appointed by the Chief Minister of the Uva Province ;
(2) Two members of the Provincial Council appointed by the leader of the opposition of the Uva Province.
(3) The Chief Secretary of the Uva Province.
The provide necessary guidance to the services performed pertaining to library and information services by the Provincial
library service board, consultative communities consisting of the professional experts from the relevant fields should be
appointed, subjected to the approval of the relevant Minister.
06. Establishment of Uva Library Services Board and subsidiary Boards.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
8A
There shall be established a Board named as Uva Province Library Services Board, hereinafter referred to as
the ‘Board’ to advise the minister on all matters connected with the planning development. Co-ordination and maintenance
of uninformity in the administration of all library service activities and the carrying out of the administration of Boards,
subsidiary boards, units and other institutions under the Provincial Library Services Board.
The Board -
(i) The said board appointed by the Minister of Education of the Uva Province consisting of the Chairman and
other members as mentioned below :
(a) Secretary (Provincial) Ministry of Local Government :
(b) (Provincial) Commissioner of Local Government ;
(c) Provincial Director of Education ;
(d) A representative named by the Sri Lanka Library Services Board ;
(e) Two persons, who have interests in Library Services, named by the Minister. A representative of the
Director General or his representative, of the National Library and information service board ;
(f) Two scholars of the province interested in the library and information interests of the Uva Province
appointed by the minister of the relevant subject ;
One person, knowledgeable in provincial administration named by the Chief Secretary ;
(g) Deputy Chief Secretary (Finance) ;
(h) A librarian of a University of the province ;
(i) A member of Sri Lanka library association.
(i) The Director of the Provincial library service board should Perform as the secretary to that board, but he is
not a member of the board. He should attend to all the administrative matters, recording minutes, and
maintaining all the documentation.
(ii) The Director of the Provincial Library Services Board shall act as the Secretary of the Board, while the
Director shall not be a member of the Board. He shall be in-charge of all documents, reports and administrative
activities of the Board.
07. There shall be appointed, a person, as the Director of the Provincial Library Services Board, who shall be
responsible for the functions set out under this statute and who shall have the qualifications in Library Science be employed
under terms of references decided by the Provincial Library Services Board.
(1) There may be appointed as may be decided upon, by the Provincial Library Services Board, officers and
other staff as way from time to time, be required to perform and be responsible for the functions set out under
this Statute.
To perform the duties effectively entrusted to him a person bearing the necessary educational and professional
qualifications, possessing necessary administrative skills and experience should be recruited, appointed
and on a recruitment procedure adapted under the recommendation of the National library and information
services board.
(2) All officers appointed under Sub - Sections (1) and (2) of this section shall be deemed to be state officers
within the meaning of the penal code.
(3) No suit shall lie against any officer acting for anything done or omitted under the Statute in good faith.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
(4) In the exercise of his powers and carrying out the duties and functions, the Director appointed under this
State shall comply with any general or special direction kindly the Board and shall abide by the decisions
Board.
(5) In carrying out their duties and functions, all other officers appointed under this caluse shall comply with
any general in special directions issued by the Director.
(6) When there is no distinctive mention in the Statute regarding the procedure of recruitment, remuneration
and service conditions of the staff including the Director. The Board with the consent of the Minister, shall
decide on such procedures.
08. (1) The duties and functions and connected activities of the Board shall be prescribed by regulations by the
Minister subject to provisions of the statute.
(2) The Board may make rules to regulate the procedure at meetings, allowances paid to committee member and
committee meetings.
09. (1) There may be established District Central Librarties in each of the districts of the Uva Province which shall
work under the instructions and of the Board for the purpose of systematize, and developing and administering of library and
information services in the districts.
(2) District Central Library Services Boards, hereinafter named as sub-boards shall constitute in the following
manner :
(i) Chairman of the Local Government bodies the district ;
(ii) Divisional Secretaries of the district of Assistant Divisional Secretaries as their representatives.
(iii) A person nominated by the Provincial Library Services Board.
(iv) The Chief officer of the District Central Library ;
(v) District Director of Education or his representative ;
(vi) Community Development Officers of the District who are entrusted with library activities or their
representatives ;
(vii) Two committee member of the library advisory committees.
(3) One member of the above Board shall be its chairman while the librarian of the District Central Library shall be ex-
officers Secretary.
10. The Sub-boards or the District Central Libraries shall work under the instructions, rules and regulations of the
Provincial Library Services Board.
11. The Provincial Library Services Boards shall prescribe rules applicable to functioning of the sub-board its
meetings, procedure and board allowances.
12. (1) The members of the Board appointed by the Minister and the members of the sub-boards appointed by the
Board shall, unless they vacate office earlier by death, resignation or by removal by the Minister or  by the Board as the case
may be, hold office for a period of two years.
(2) The Minister or the Board as the case may be, shall have the power to remove any member of the Board or the
sub-board, without showing any cause.
5 —  PG 001373

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
10A
(3) A member appointed to the Board or a Sub-Board to fill a vacancy created by the death, resignation or removal
of a member shall bold office only for the remaining part of the two years.
(4) A member who as completed his term of office or who has vacated the office, if not unqualified according to the
provisions of the Statute, is eligible for re-election.
(5) The Minister or the Board, as the care may be, shall have the power to make temporary appointment to the Board
or a Sub-Board when a member is unable to serve on the Board or a Sub-Board due to illness, being away from the Island or
due to some other cause.
13. Any person shall be disqualified from serving on the Board, if be —
(a) Sentenced to prison for a period of not less than three months for a criminal offence in a Court of Law or
punished with a fine of more than Rs. 500 for a similar offence ;
(b) If formally dismissed from service for servere misconduct ;
(c) If be a member of Parliament or of a Provincial Council.
14.  A person shall cause to be member on his/her —
(a) Death ;
(b) Resignation ;
(c) Removal ;
(d) Completion of the period of service as stated in this statute ;
(e) Imprisonment for a period of not less than three months ;
(f) Acceptance of a Parliamentary or Provincial Council membership ;
(g) Being absent for 3 consecutive meetings of the Board/Subsidiary Board, without showing any cause.
PART - II
Establishment of a Library Fund :
15. There shall be established a fund called the Uva Province Library Fund, hereinafter referred to as the ‘Fund’ for
promotion, development and improvement of library services and data services.
16. Money will be voted for library work annually by the Provincial Council. Such money may be spent on the advise
of the Board for necessities of libraries in the Province. Futher some of money may be voted specially for library work.
17. The following payments shall be paid into the Fund :
(a) Sums of money as may from time to time be voted by the Government for library work in the Uva Province ;
(b) Sums of money as may be voted annually or on special requirements ;
(c) Aids Donations and grants of local or foreign origin received or obtained.
18.  (1) It may be accepted as gifts or purchased on behalf of the Board any movable or immovable property.

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
(2) (i) Any such property, movable or immovable, acquired may be sold adopting required procedure and the
Minister’s approval shall be taken when buildings, equipment or vehicles are sold ;
(ii) All such proceeds shall be credited to the Fund.
19.  (1) The Fund shall be administered by the Board under the guidance and supervision of the minister.
(2) The Board shall act as an advisory council to the Minister on the administration of the Fund.
(3) The Director shall prepare a report on this financial administration of the Fund at the end of each calendar year,
before the lapse of three months, if not otherwise called for by the Board, and forward same to the Chief  Secretary of the
Province to be forwarded to the Minister with his observations and comments.
(4) It shall be the responsibility of the Director to maintain (the books of) accounts in detail and in an appropriate
manner, for each calendar year.
(5) The Chief Secretary shall have the power to guide, instruct and order in the administraion of all the accounts of
the Fund.
(6) The Provision of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 shall apply, with due alteration, to the financial control
and accounts of the Fund.
(7) The calender year shall be the financial year of the Fund.
20. The Minister shall present a report on the administration of the Fund, to the Uva Provincial Council annually.
21. Such sums of money may be paid out of the Fund, as may be decided upon by the Minister or by the board —
(a) For the payment of the salaries of employees and other remunerations ;
(b) For the payment of members and committees allowances and for attendance payments ;
(c) For administrative expenses of the central libraries controlled by the Board ;
(d) For all payments incurred in accordance with the provisions of the Statute ;
(e) To bear expenses for all legal actions taken for the maintenance of work and activities of the Board adn to
bear expenses for any legal action taken against the Board ;
(f) For all other payments made, within the provisions of the Statute, by the minister or  by the board ;
(g) To bear the expenses that shall be incurred regarding local or foreign scholarships.
PART - III
Establishment of a research and training centre for libray and information purpose.
22. The Minister may, as he decide establish :
(a) Training, Research or Service Centres hereinafter referred to as Institutions ;
(b) Provide education, knowledge, understanding, instructions and training in Library Service and Data
Information Service; conduct examination to decide the proficiency gained by the students of the institution,
and award certificated ;

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
12A
(c) Provide with data information for the development and improvement of library service.
23. The Minister shall by his regulations, prescribe the procedure of :
(a) Recruitment ;
(b) Education, Training and Examinations ;
(c) Appointment and payment of instruments of the Directors, Assistant Directors, Teachers, Instructors
and other officers.
24. The Minister shall have the power -
(a) to provide facilities for the institution and to conduct maintain and equip buildings for training, residential
facilities and for other purposes ;
(b) to regulate and provide for the discipline and welfare of the students and tutorial staff ;
(c) to provide for the award of certificates by the institutions.
PART - IV
Establishment of  libraries and the administration of the library service.
25. (1) The Board shall, under the provisions of this statute, have full power for the planning, development and
co-ordination, etc. of library activities and shall maintain a suitable staff for carrying out of such activities.
(2) The administrative activities of the central libraries shall be conducted in affiliation with the Board.
(3) The following duties should be performed by the Provincial Library Services Board :
(1) Provision of guidance for library development ;
(2) Provision of special grants;
(3) Make, conditions of appointment of the librarians and other service performed and procedure of recruitment
and provisions for promotions ;
(4) Provide for inter co-operation among libraries ;
(5) Instruct the librarians and assistant ;
(6) Publish literature on different curricula or in connection with library service ;
(7) Collect statistical information and data ;

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
(8) Research ;
(9) Provide translation and editing services ;
(10) Conduct training programmes ;
(11) Provice technical services ;
(12) Provide reading facilities, and ;
(13) Provide educational and literary administration facilities ;
(14) Implementation of rules and regulations statutes and standards for libraries ;
(15) Other library development activities.
(4) Under the Provincial Library Services Board or under its Organization and Instructions, there may be
established —
(a) Provincial  Central Library ;
(b) District or Regional Central Libraries as may be decided upon on the need of such libraries ;
(c) Divisional Libraries attached to Local Government Bodies ; and
(d) Library Service Advisory Boards and Readers’ Associations.
26. (A) Provincial Central Library
(a) The Provincial Council expects the library to perform at Prvincial level under the administration of the Board,
all the functions that the National Library perform at level.
(b) The Provincial Central Library shall be the main library in the province and it will be the mother-library for the
District, Regional, Central, Divisional and Rural (elementary) libraries.
(c) The Provincial Central Library shall do all the library service co-ordination work of all the libraries in the
province.
(B) District/Regional Central Library
(a) The Board may, as it decides, establish District/Regional Central Libraries at District level or at regional level,
if the Board decide to divide the Province into such regions as the Board may decide for the proper functioning
if library services  ;
(b) The District/Regional Central libraries shall perform the functions of -
Co-ordinating the library services in the region.
Co-ordinating , in the particular regions, the exchange of material and books among libraries and conducting
in the particular regions, various programmes and activities performed by the Board or the Provincial Central
Library.
(c) Act as the mother-library for all other libraries in the particular region.
(C) Regional Cental Libraries
6 —  PG 001373

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
14A
(a) Any existing library in a library service Region, run by a local government body, shall be improved as a
Regional Central Library ;
(b) Though the administration of such a library do not come under the Board or the Provincial Central Library,
it should act as the mother library of all the other libraries in the region, with the guidance and instructions
of the Board and the Provincial Library ;
(c) Such a library should have connection with the District/Regional library though not of administrative or
service nature.
(D) Library Service Advisory Boards and Readers’ Club —
(a) There may be formed Advisory Boards and Readers’ Clubs attached to each central or local (elementary)
library, which advisory Board or Club shall perform under the guidance and instructions of the Board ;
(b) The Board shall prescribe rules regarding the procedure to be adopted by the such advisory Boards or
Clubs.
PART - V
General
27. (1) The Minister may make general and special directions in writing to the Board, Sub-Boards, Committees,
Associations or other organizations established or registered under this Statute as to the exercise, discharge and performance
of their powers functions and duties and such Boards, Subsidiary Boards, Committee, Associations or other organizations
shall give effect to such directions.
(2) The Minister may from time to time direct Boards, Committees, Associations and other Organizations established
or registered under this Statute to furnish him in such forms as he may requier, returns and other information in respect of their
property and activities and such Boards, Sub-boards, Committees, Associations and other Organizations shall carry out
every such direction.
(3) The Minister may from time to time order all or any of the activities of Boards, Sub-Boards, Committees,
Associations an other Organizations established or registered under this Statute to be investigated and reported on by such
suitable person or persons as he may specify and upon such order being made, such Board Sub-Boards, Committee,
Association and other organizations shall afford all such facilities and furnish all such information as may be necessary to
carry out every such order.
28. (1) The Minister may regulate and control by regulation the participation either in Sri Lanka or abroad of a
librarian or a group of librarians to represent the Uva Province.
(2) The Minister may prescribe by regulation the minimum library facilities and standards a particular institute shall
provide.
(3) The Minister may make regulations for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of the Statute and for all matters which are required by this Statute to be prescribed or in respect of which
regulations are required to be made.
(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Government Gazette and may come into
operation on the date of such publication or on such date as may be specified therein. Every regulation made by the Mainister
shall as soon as convenient, after the publication in the Government  Gazette, be brought before the Provincial Council for
approval. Any regulations which is not approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but without
prejudice to anything previously done there under. Notification of the date on which any regulations made by the Minister
so to deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Government Gazette.

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
29. The Minister shall have the power to formulate regulations on the recommendation of the Board, to decide on
remunerations, allowances and any other payments that have to be made to the employees of the Provincial Library Services
Board and Central Libraries and members of the Boards and Sub-Boards established under this Statute.
30. It shall be the duty of the Provincial Library Services Board to work in close co-operation, when-every necessary,
with the Sri Lanka National Library Services Board, so as to work homologously in library service activities within Sri Lanka
and to consider the instructions that are being compiled on behalf of the Sri Lanka Democratic Socialist Republic by the Sri
Lanka National Library Services Board.
Interpretations
31 (a) 1. Unless the contact requires an interpretation, in this statute ‘Minister’ means the Uva Provincial Council
Minister to whom the subject of Local Government been assigned to.
2. ‘Secretary’ means the Secretary of the Ministry to which the subject of Local Government is assigned.
3. ‘Library Service and Documentation’  include any form of library serivce and documentation service recognized
by the Secretary to the Ministry as library service and service for the purpose of the Statute.
4. Chairman of Local Bodies includes the Mayor of Municipal Councils .
(b) For the purpose of Provisions in the Staute, and in library activities, the interpretation of terms be as follows :
1. Inter Library Loan Service - cending of one knowledgeable media to another library borrowing of material
which is not available, from another library, Borrowing of knowledgeable media from libraries and
documentation centres of international regional and divisional organizations.
2. Consolidated Index - Index of different library material, collected at different libraries showing the place
where material is found.
3. Mobile libraries - Prepare of vehicle to accommodate library material through which library service is spread
to the areas. Where library facilities are not available.
4. Library/documentation Centres - a place where media such as books, periodicals and audio-visual material
are kept for in the reference section. Library provides the facility for the readers to use manuscripts, rare
books and computer soft - ware material which are restored here. Documentation centre provides the facilities
of preparing seconday level source material such as indexes, digests, catalogues.
5. Library Committees - Type of voluntary organization which acts in a advisory capacity in the realization of
library objectives.
6. Library Fund - A centralized fund for the development of and to assist the libraries of all types at Provincial
and regional level.
7. Library resources - Knowledge media which assists the needs of the readers, such as printed books, Periodicals
audio-visual media, dicks, micro films, computer soft-ware, maps and manuscripts.
8. Central Library - The main library which every one can visit, administration of other libraries is done by the
central library,  Also known as the main library.
9. Centralized Documentation - The main library prepare visits and distributes index systems for the other
libraries. So that in indexing there will be uniformity.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
16A
10. Collective acceptance - District Central Library order and buy books from a centrally suitable place, on
behalf of all other libraries of a region. Collect books received as gifts or loans, attend to technical work.
11. Preservation/Restoration - Retoration of books adoption of preservating methods such as lamination, to
take action to protect the matter of the library material from physical or natural causes.
12. Extension Services - Services rendered to display the library as an educational resource centre by conducting
library exhitions, and lecture, conferences and workshops organized be readers’ clubs.
13. (a) Documentation net works - Libraries in a geographical region coems to an agreement for the documentation
of information.
(b) In the event of any inconsistency in the definition of words or any other matter the Sinhala text shall be
regarded  as the original test.
08 - 122/4
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Provincial Statute No. 01 of  2001 of the Uva Provincial Council
STATE PASSENGER TRANSPORT SERVICES AUTHORITY
IT is notified that the above statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, has been approved
by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Provincial on the date 11th of December 2001 and which is hereby published for the
notification of the public.
W. M. M. G .  A
BEYSINGHE BANDA,
Secretary,
Provincial Council of  the Uva Province.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council
King’s Street,
Badulla,
05th of July 2012.
PASSENGER TRANSPORT SERVICES AUTHOIRTY STATUTE NO. 01 OF THE YEAR 2001 UVA PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
A statutes to provide for regulating the passenger Transport Services  Operating within the Uva Province, and the
Inter Provincial Passenger Trasnport Services as far as they concern the Uva Province, and matters connected therewith or
incidental thereto; to provide for the establishment of a “Passenger Transport Services Authority”
Be It enacted by the Provincial Council of the Uva Province.
01. This Statute may be cited as “The Passenger Transport Services Authority Staute No. 01 of
the Year 2001.”
02. This statute shall come into operation of such date (hereinafter Operation called the “appointed
date”) as The Governor of Uva may appoint by an order  published in the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Short Title.
Date of
Operation.

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
PART  - I
ESTABLISHMENT OF  A PASSENGER TRANSPORT SERVICE AUTHORITY
FOR THE UVA PROVINCE.
03. There shall be establish, be a Provincial Authority which shall be called “the Passenger
Transport Services Authority of the Uva Province” (hereinafter referred to, as the “Authority”)
04. The Authority shall in the name assigned to it by Section 3 be a body corporated with
prepetual succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate name.
05. The Authority may, at its discretion subject to the approval by the Minister, delegate or
decentralize the functions and powers pertaining to the subject of regulating Passenger Transport Services
and establish and maintain sub offices of the Authority at appropriate places.
06. (a) The Authority shall consist of eleven members who shall constitute the Board of Directors
and five of whom shall be ex official members and six members shall be appointed members. The number of
members and constitution of the Board may be varied at the discretion of The Board  of Ministers.
(b) All members of the Authority shall be duly appointed by a letter issued under the hand of the
Minister and all such appointments shall be published in the Gazette.
(c) The Ex-official members of the Authority shall consist of :
1. The secretary to the Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of Passenger Transport.
The Secretary may, if he deems expedient, nominate a senior officer from the said Ministry
to deputies him ;
2. An Officer not below the rank of (Senior) Assistant Secretary of the Provincial Ministry in
charge of the subject of Passenger Transport who shall be nominated by the Minister ;
3. An Accountant nominated by the Provincial Minister in charge of the Subject of Finance,
from his Ministry ;
4. The Deputy Inspector General of Police of the Uva Province or an Assistant Superintendent
of Police nominated by him or an officer of a higher rank ;
5. The Commissioner of Local Government of the Uva Province or an Assistant Commissioner
of Local Government nominated by him.
(d) The Appointed Members of the Authority shall consist of :
1. Three persons who possess, to the satisfaction of the Minister, a wide experience,
qualifications and aptitude in one or more of the fields of Transport Economics,
Administration and Engineering ;
2. A person selected at the discretion of the Minister to represent the omnibus travelers of
the Province ;
3. A person nominated form the private omnibus owners’ association of the Uva Province to
represent the private omnibus owners of the Uva Province.
4. One of the following officers as determined by the Minister at his discretion ;
Authority.
Sub Offices.
Constitutiion of
the Authority.
Ex-Officio
Members.
Appointed
Members.

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
18A
(a) (i) a senior officer, not below the rank of a Regional Manager, nominated by the Chairman Sri
Lanka Transport Board ;
or
(ii) A Senior officer not below the status of an officer referred to in the preceding Sub-Section a (i)
nominated by th eHead or Regional Head of national level or regional level organization which shall
become the successor to the Sri Lanka Transport Board.
or
(b) A senior officer not below the rank of an Assistant Director nominated by the Chairman
National Transport Commission.
07. (a) One member from among the members of the Authority shall be appointed by the Minister,
to be the Chairman of the Authority.
(b) The Executive Powers of the authority shall be vested with the Chairman of the Authority. He
may as circumstances warrant delegate such powers with the concurrence of the Authority, to the General
Manager and through him  to the other officers of the Authority.
(c) The Chairman shall not be debarred from exercising by himself, any delegated powers under
emergency circumstances.
08. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or from continuing as a member of the
Authority, if he is or if he is elected a Member of Parliament or a member of any Provincial Council or a
member of any Local Authority.
09. Before appointing a person as a member of the Authority, the Minister shall satisfy himself that
such person does not have, Financial or other relationships or interests with the Government or with any
Provincial Council or any Local Authority as are likely to affect prejudicially the discharge of his functions
by such person as a member of the Authority. The Minister shall also satisfy himself ; from time to time that
no member of the Authority has any such relationships or interests. Any person who is appointed by the
Minister or whom the Minister proposes to appoint as a member of the Authority shall, whenever requested
by the Minister to furnish to the Minister such information as the Minister considers necessary for the
performance of his duties under this section.
10. (1) Any member of the Authority who is in any way, directly or indirectly interested in any
Contract executed or to be executed by the Authority shall disclose the nature of his intrests at the earliest
meeting of the Authority and such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of that meeting and such
members shall not take part in any deliberation or decision of the Authority with regard to that contract.
(2) The preceding Sub Section (1) shall not apply to any member who in his official capacity deals
with any such contracts.
11. Subject to the Provision in Section 12 the term of office of An Appointed Member of the
Authority shall be three years from the date of appointment and any such member vacating office by
effluxion of time shall be elegible for reappointment.
Provided that a member appointed to fill a vacancy of an appointed Member of the Authority shall
unless the resigns or is removed from office or otherwise vacates office, hold office for the unexpired part
of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
12. The Minister may at his discretion remove any member from office, and such removal shall be
published in the Government Gazette as early as possible.
Chairman of the
Authority.
Executive Power
of Authority.
Disqualification
to be a member.
Information to
be furnished to
the Minister.
Contracts with
the Authority.
Term of Office.
Removal of a
member by the
Minister.

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
13. A member or the Chairman of the Authority may resign his office by a letter addressed to the
Minister.
14. Where a member or the Chairman of the authority is temporarily unable to discharge, the duties
and functions of his office by reason of his absence from Sri Lanka or due to any other reason, the Minister
may, having regard to provisions in Section 6, appoint another person to act as a member in his place
temparalaly.
15. Members and the Chairman of th Authority may be paid such remuneration and allownces or
other payments out of the funds of the Authority, as may be determined by, the Minister with the concurrence
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in the Uva Province.
16. (a) Wherever the Minister consider it deem necessary under special or on Emergency
circumstances or situations he may make an order delegating any or all powers of the Authority to the
Chairman and such order shall specify the period for which the delegation shall be effective.
(b) The Minister shall submit any such order for the approval of the Provincial Council for its next
closest meeting.
17. (1) The  Chairman of the authority shall preside at all meetings of the Authority at which he is
attending. In the absence of the Chairman at any meeting of the Authority the members present at such
meeting shall by majority vote, elect a chairman from among themselves to preside that meeting.
(2) The quorum for any meetings of the Authority shall be more than one half of the number of
members, including the Chairman, after leaving out the number of vacancies in the membership.
(3) A person presiding at any meeting of the Authority shall have a casing vote in addition to his
own vote.
(4) The Authority may determine the frequency of its meetings, and procedures to be followed in
conducting such meetings and transacting of business threat including consideration of appeals submitted
to the Authority or to he Chairman under “Statute”.
Further the Authority shall meet whenever the Minister notices the Authority to do so for any
reason.
18. (1) The seals of the Authority shall be in the custody of the Chairman.
(2) The seal of the, Authority may be altered in such manner as may be determined by the
Authority.
(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any document or instrument except in the
presence of two members of the Authority both of who shall “sign the documents or instrument as
evidence of their presence.
PART  - II
POWERS, FUNCTIONS AND STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY
19. The following powers and functions shall be vested in the Proincial Authority for the purpose
of maintaining an efficient passenger transport service subject to any such variation as the Minister may
consider necessary from time to time at his discretion.
Resignation of
member.
Absence of a
member
Remuneration to
members.
Special or
Emergency
situatoin.
Presiding at
meetings.
Quorum.
Casting V ote.
Frequency of
meeting and
Procedure.
Seal of the
Authority.
Powers and
functions.

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
20A
(a) To monitor and survey the avilability of an adequate omnibus service of acceptable quality
to meet the passenger transport requirements within the Uva Province and conncted with
the Uva Province and to prescribe standards’ applicable to such services.
(b) To draw up Time Tables for omnibus operations, directig operators to comply with such
Time Tables and to monitor or cause to monitor that the operators comply with such Time
Tables.
(c) To frame regulatins with regard to issuing renewing amending and canceling Passenger
Service Permits or such other instruments authorizing any person to operate an omnibus
for the carriage of passengers at different fares.
(d) To prescribe terms and conditions relevant to the permits or such other instruments referred
to in Sub Section (c) ; to monitor the permit holders or their servants comply with such
conditions and terms and to enforce such compliance, subject to provisions of any other
written law.
(e) To require any holder of a Passenger Service Permit issued under this Statute or under any
other written law, or any other person to furnish to the Authority such information or
returns as may be necessary for any purpose under this Statute.
(f) To determine and revise form time  to time, fees to be levied for issuing, renewing and
amending Passenger Service Permits and any other matter relating thereto.
(g) To frame regulations with regard to the destination boards plates and symbols that should
be exhibited in an omnibus used for passenter transport under the authority of a Passenger
Service Permit issued under this Statute or under any other written Law.
(h) to specify the documents to be carried or kept by the drivers and/or conductors of omnibuses
used for the carriage of Passengers undert the authority of Passengers Service Permits
issued under this Statute, or under any other written law and the information to be recorded
in such documents.
(
i) To frame regulations with regard to the standards of quality and condition of fitness to be
maintained by the Permit Holder in an omnibus used for carriage of passengers under the
authority of a Passenger Service Permit and to determine action to be taken against violation
or neglect of such regulations.
(j) To determine the records to be kept or maintained with regard to the operating turns of the
omnibuses used for the carriage of passengers under the authority of a Passenger Service
Permit.
(k) To determine the records to be kept maintained or submitted to the Authority in respect of
any person employed as a driver and as a conductor of an Omnibus used for carriage of
passengers under the authority of a Passenger Service Permit issued under this Statute,
and their times of commencement and cessation of services, intervals of rest allowed and
wages allowances or fees paid for such persons by the holder of a said Permit.
(l) All bus stations/stands and the buildings situated at such places shall be vested in the
Passenger Transport Services Authority of the Uva Province. No construction shall be
errected without the permission of the Secretary to the Ministry of  Transport.  A list of
name of such bus stations/stands is annexed to this Statute as Schedule L The Authority
Monitoring
standards.
Time Tables.
Passenger
Service Permits
Regulations.
Conditions.
Furnishings
information.
Charges.
Distination
Board etc.
Documents
carried in
omnibuses.
Fitness of the
omnibus.
Records.
Bus Stands and
Halting places.

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
shall decide upon imposing terms and conditions, restrictions, prohibitions, and granting
permission regarding establishment, maintenance, development changing and closure of
bus stands/stations and bus halting places, construction of passenger shelters and other
buildings providing security and utility services for such places, utilising vacant areas
within the Limits of bus stations/stands and any other matters connected or coincidental
thereto.
(m) To issue directions regarding managment of omnibus operations in bus stands/stations,
implementation of Time Tables ; determining bus operation commencing points,
engagement of Officers in Charge of bus stations/stands, Tim Keepers and other necesary
staff and their powers, functions duties and responsibilities.
(n) To diret the records and documents to be maintained and information to be recorded in
such documents by the staff engaged in the management of operations in the bus stations/
stands and to issue directions with regard to their safe custody.
(o) To identify and approve the categories of passengers eligible fares for enjoying he facility
of concessionary bus fares and to give directions for implementation of such concessionary
fare schemes as the Authority may deem to consider appropriate.
(p) To implement a scheme of financial incentives where necessary for bus operations in
order to ensure adequate bus services on uneconomical bus routs.
(q) To introduce schemes and plans for bus operators ot obtain loan facilities, expertise and
guidance or any other suitable assistance and advice; where any such scheme involves
funds of the Provincia l Council or revenue due to the Authority prior approval of the
Board of Ministers shall be obtained.
(r) To Promote commuter participation in controlling, regulating and improving quality of
omnibuses and passenger carriage services ; to organize bus travelers associations for
such purposes . to frame regulations in respect of such associations and to provice
necessary guidance and other suitable assistance for such associations.
(s) (i) To Frame regulations defining action to be taken and punishments to be imposed for
the prevention of activities contrary to the provisions made in this Statute.
(ii) to establish or cause to be established flying Squads for the purpose of detecting,
preventing and taking appropriate action against unlawful activities in passenger
transportation within the limits of the Uva Province, to determine powers and functions
of such flying squads and to frame regulations pertaining to them.
(t) To prescribe regulations applicable to Drivers and Conductors fo omnibus employed in
road  Passenger Transport Service, in respect of such matters as :
(1) Rights of employment ;
(2) Professional skills, Qualifications and fitness ;
(3) Discipline and courtesy to be observed while engaged in service ;
(4) Uniforms and badges or symbols to be worn while on duty.
Operation in bus
stands.
Concessionary.
fares.
Incentives to
operators.
Commuter
participation.
Illegal Passenger
Transport.
Regulations re.
Dirvers and
conductors.

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
22A
(u) To prescribe regulations with regard to issuing Passenger Service Permits, implementing
time tables, and levying different fares in respect of omnibus used for Inter-Provincial
Passenger Transport Services and controlling operation of such buses within the province
and at bus stands in th Province.
(v) To prescribe regulations deemed necessary for achieving and Contract objectives,
peforming functions and enforcing powers of the Authority and to enter into agreements
or contracts with any person or with any organization within or outside Sri Lanka for the
purposes of achieving such objectives.
(w) To acquire, make on lease or rent out and possess and use any of movable or immovable
property and to dispose of such property in accordance with prescribed procedures.
(x) To levy charges in respect of any services, facility or porperty provided by the Authority.
(y) To accept grants, donations, subsidies or gifts in cash and king and to utilize them for
achieving the objectives of the Authority.
20. Any regulation to be trained by the Authority in respect for any matter under this Statute shall
come into operation on the approval of the Minister and from a date to be determined by him and such
regulation shall be published in the Government Gazette. Further the Minister shall submit such regulations
to the Provincial Council for its approval within 45 days of the publication of the Gazette notification.
21. Subject to approval of the Board of Minister, the Authority shall of staff have the power to
determine the necessary staff for the Authority and to perform the, following functions in respect of such
staff :
(1) To formulate Shcemes of recruitment specifying educational professional and other
qolifications wages and salary scales.
(2) To issue standing orders concerning personnel management on such matters as
appointments, promotions, salaries, wages and other allowances, and disciplinary control
including disciplinary punishments, termination of service, general conduct and leave of
absence ;
(3) To introduce staff development Schemes to improve efficiency of the staff ;
(4) To implement Provident Fund Schemes ;
(5) To introduce and implement welfare Schemes.
22. The Authority shall have the power :
(1) to recruit new staff as provided under section 22 above and ;
(2) to employ in its services on secondment or on contract or on any other basis officers and
employees of the Public Service or of the Provincial Public Service with the concurrence of
the relevant authorities ;
(3) On the date when the Transport Authority comes into operation any employees who have
performed continuous satisfactory service under any agreement in enforcing the provisions
of the Passenger Carriage Statute No. 1 of 2001 of the Uva Province, may be recruited to
Acquisition of
property.
Service charges.
Grants.
Inter - Provin-
cial operations.
Agreements an
Contracts.
Regulation to be
gazetted .
Determination
of staff.
Employment
secondment
releasment and
contract.

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
any post in the Authority provided they satisfy the required minimum educational
qualifications stipulated in the recruitment scheme to be determined by the Authority.
However the educational qualifications may be relaxed to a certin extent with the
concurrence of the Minister in the case of employees who do not possess minimum
educational qualifications ;
(4) When as employee of the Public Service or of the Provincial Public Service is appointed to
the staff of the Authority on secondment :
(A) he shall if he at the time of his appointment to the staff of the Authority, has been
holding a permanent post and such post had been declared to be pensionable under
the Minutes on pensions, he shall while in the, employment of the Authority be
deemed to have public service and on no pay leave granted on grounds of public
policy and accordingly Section 10(1) of the minutes of Pensions shall apply to him,
and the Authority shall pay, in respect of him ;
out of the funds of the Authority, to the treasury to be credited to the Consolidated
Fund or to the Provincial Fund, as the case may be, for every complete month during
which he is in the service of the Authority, a such sum of money not exceeding twenty
five per centum of the salary payable to him in his substantive post in the Public
Service or the Provincial Public Service.
(B) If he at the time of his appointment to the staff of the Authority, was contributor to the
Public Service Provident Fund, his service to the Authority shall deemed to be service
to the Government or to the Provincial Council and accordingly he shall, while he is in
the service of the Authority  continue to pay to the public service Provident Fund
such contributions, as he may be liable to pay and to the Authority shall pay, out of
the funds of the Authority to the credit of the Public Service Provident Fund a sum
equivalent to such contribution as the Government or the Provincial Council is liable
to pay to the Public Service Provident Fund in respect of him ;
(5) When an officer or an employee of the Public Service or of the Provincial Public Service is
permanently appointed to the staff of the Authority :
(A) he shall be deemed to have left the Public Service ;
(B) if he at the time of his permanent appointment to the staff of the Authority his
substantive post in the Public Service or in the Provincial Public Service has been
declared to the permanent and pensionable he shall be elegible for such an award
under the Minutes on Pensions if he had been retired from the Public Service on the
date of his permanent appointment to the staff of the Authority ;
(C) the amount of any such award made underthe Minutes on Pensions should not be
paid to him unless his employment in the staff of the Authority is  terminated by
retirement on account of age or ill health or by the abolition of the post held by him in
such staff or on any other ground ;
(D) In the event of his death while in the service of the Authority, or immediately before
his permanent appointment to the Authority, any award under the pension miniute is
payable to him together with any award for his serivice in the, Authority ;
(E) if at the time of his permanent appointment to the staff of the Authority, lie was a
contributor to the Public Service Provident Fund established by the Public Service
Provident Fund Ordinance, he shall for the purpose of that Ordinance be deemed to
have left the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service upon the termination of
his contract with the consent of the Government or of the Provincial Council otherwise
deem by dismissal.
Permanent &
Pensionable
Employees.
Employees on
P.S.P.F.
Permanent
Appointment to
the Authority.
Permanent &
Pensionable
employees.
Death while in
service.
Employees on
P.S.P.F.

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
24A
(6) Where the Authority employees a person who has entered in to a contract with the
Government or the Provincial Council by which he has agreed to serve the Government or
the Provincial Council by which he has agreed to serve the Government or the Provincial
Council for a specified period, any period of service to the Authority by that person shall
be regarded as service for the purpose of discharging the obigations of such contract.
23. All officers and employees of the authority shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning and for the purposes of the penal Code.
24. the Authority shall deemed to be a Scheduled institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act
and the provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.
25. (A) The Provincial  Director of Transport and the Assistant Director of Transport attached to
the Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of passenger transport shall be the General Manager and
the Assistant General Manger, respectively, of the authority.
(B) The General Manager shall be the Chief excecutive officer of the Authority, with the executive
powers delegated in terms of Section 7(b).
26. Subject to general policy directives of the Authority, the General Manager shall be charged
with the responsibility for direction of day to day Manager. Day activities of the Authority, the administrative
control including disciplinary control of the employees of the Authority and general supervision over the
financial control of the Authority.
27. The Authority may delegate in writing to the General Manager and to the other officers, any of
the powers and fuctions vested therein by this Statute, such powers and except the powers of making
relugations as the Authority may consider deem to be necessary for efficient administration. the General
Manager and the other officers sahll exercise such powers and perform such functions subject to the
guidance and supervision of the authority -, and -such guidance and supervision shall be provided by the
Chairman or the other officers having delegated powers under Section 7(b) on behalf of the authority.
28. The Gemeral Manager may, with the concurrence of the Chairman, delegate in writing any of
his powers, duties and functions as he may manager consider deem necessary, to the Assistant General
Manager and to any other appropriate employee of the Authority and the Assistant General Manager and
such other employee shall exercise such powers and perform such duties and fucntions under the supervisiion
and directions of the General Manager.
29. (a) Any person whosoever who purposely obstructs and officer of the Authority or his
representative in the execution of any directive or in the exercise of any of his duties vested upon him under
the provision of this Statute or on any other rule or regulation or any by-law framed under his Statute, shall
be guilty of an offence and on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, shall be liable either to a
fine not exceeding rupees two thousand or to an imprisonment for a form not exceeding one year.
(b) Violation of any rule, regulation or by-law framed under this Statute shall be an offence and or
conviction after a summary trial before a magistrate having jurisdiction over the division in which the
offence is over the shall be liable either to a fine not exceeding Rupees two thousand or to an imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year.
(c) If any offence under this Section is an offence committed continuously by any person after
convictions such person shall be liable to a fine not exceeding Rupees five hundred for each day
conmmitment of such offence.
(d) A directive may be issued in additions to any punishment that very be imposed on any
personswho commits an offence under” Section. If such person shall fail to comply with the directive, an
undermay be issued to a fiscal officer of the judiciary to execute such directive.
Service  on
contract to be
obligatory.
Authority
employees
deemed to be
public servants.
Authority an
institution under
Bribery Act.
Responsibility of
the General
Manager.
Delegation to
the General
Manager.
Delegation by
the General
Manager.

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
(e) All complaints under this Section shall be made to the Magistrate Court by the Chairman of th
Authority or by an officer authorised in writing by him.
PART  - III
FINANCE
30. The Authority shall have its own fund.
31. There shall be paid to the fund of the Authority :
(i) All sums of money as may be received, collected or recovered by the Authority in the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions ;
(ii) All sums of money allocated by the Uva Provincial council ;
(iii) All sums of money accruing to the credit of the Authority, from whatever source, as fees,
assistance, donations, grants and loans.
32. The General Manager shall be vested with the responsibility for general supervision of receipt
of monies and the payments of the fund of the Authority.
33. The Authority may utilize the funds of the Authority for the purpose of defraying any
expenditure incurred in the management of the affiars of the Authority, the payment of remuneration,
allowances and all other payments of whatever nature to the members and to the employees of the Authority,
the exercise of the powers and performance of fucntions of the Authority under this Statute or any other
written law, all activities connected with regulating and maintenanceof passenger transport services,
constructions development and maintenance of bus stands and bus passenger shelters and matters
connected therewith and such other purposes the Board of Ministers may authorize from time to time.
34. The Authority shall have the power to borrow money for specific purposes with the prior
approval of the Board of Minister ; provided that the quantum of the borrowings, the period of repayment
the conditions governing the borrowings and the intended lending institution shall be as determined by
the Board of Ministers.
35. The Financial year of the Authority shall be the calender year.
36. Audit of income and expenditure,assets and liabilities and all financial transaction including
relevant financial procedures shall be carried out from time to time, by the Provincial Audit Department of
the Uva Province.
37. The General Manager of the Authority appointed in terms Section 26 of this Statute shall be
the “Provincial Director of Transport” until althernative provisions are made in future.
38. The officers and employees serving in the Transport Division of the provincial Ministry in
charge of the subject of Road Passenger Trnasport Services, shall be considered with their consent as
officers and employees of the Authority from the dya the Authority comes into operation; they may be
considered to have seconded to the service of the Authority on temporary release from the Provincial
Public Service from such date and section 23 of this Statute shall be applicable to them.
Credits to the
fund.
General
Inspections of
Receiving &
Payments.
Utilization of
funds.
Financial year.
Borrowings.
Audit of
Accounts.
Provincial
Direcotr to be
General Manager.
Staff in service
to be on
temporary
release.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'07'19
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 19.07.2012
26A
39. If there be any agreements entered into by the Provincial director of Transport in respect of
powers and functions vested in  the Authority before coming into operation of this Statute, All such
agreements shall be considered null and void from, the date on which this Authority shall become operative
accordingly to this Statute.
40. Balance amount left after settlement of all the debits of the Transport Working Board Account
No. 10166 administered by the Provincial Minisry in charge of the subject of  passenger transport service
shall be transferred to the Authority with effect the date on which the Authority becomes operative and the
said Account shall be  a component of the fund of the Authority.
41. (1) Until the Ministr with concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in the
Uva Province and decides otherwise, all emoluments, allowances and other payments due to the staff
engaged in the service of the Authority on secondment shall continue to be paid out of the financial
provisiions of the Provincial Ministry in charge of the subject of Passenger Transport Services. And alsoit
requires the approval of the Hon. Governor of Uva Province.
(2) Until the, Minister withthe concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in
the Uva Province derides otherwise, the wages, allowances and other payments due to employees other
than those referred to in the subsection (1), aboe, shall be paid out of the fund of the Transport Account
referred to in Section 40. And also ti requires the approval of the Hon. Governor or Uva Province.
42. Until otherwise decided by the Minister in consultation with the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance in the Uva Province, the Authority may utilize the funds in the said Transport Account
for any purpose under this Statute, subject to the provisions in the Section 41.
43. Until otherwise decided by the authority, the Regulations made Under the Statute and published
in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, shall be deemed to the valid in terms.
44. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
45. Interpretations :
“Authority” or “Provincial Authority” shall mean the Passenger Transport Services Authority
of the Uva Province.
“Minister shall mean the Minister in the board of Ministers of the Uva Province who is in
charge of the subject of Passenger Transport Services.
“Board of Ministers” shall mean the Board of Ministers of the Uva Provincial Council.
“Province” shall mean the Uva Province.
“Permit” or “Passenger Service Permit’ of “Passenger Carriage Service Permit” or “Route Permit”
shall mean the Passenger Service Permit issued under this Statute or any other written
law authorizing use of an omnibus for carriage of passengers at separate fares on a route
specified in such permit.
“Bus Stand’ shall include with its meaning a way - side bus halting place.
“Gazette” shall mean the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
“Local Authority” shall mean a Municipal Council Urban Council and Pradeshiya Sabha.
08 - 122/5
Agreement to be
cancelled.
Transport
Account.
Emoluments of
seconded staff.
Payments to
other staff.
Utilize funds in
the Transport
Advance
Account.
Regulations made
under the statute.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.