

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2"041 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'10'13
No. 2,041 -  FRIDAY , OCTOBER 13,  2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
    PAGE
Proclamations, &c., by the Governors                               ...
Appointments, &c., by the Governors ... —
Other Appointments &c. ... —
Provincial Councils Notiﬁ cations ... —
By-Laws ... —
Posts - Vacant ...     —
         P
AGE 
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... 1362
Notices calling for Tenders ... ––
Sale of Articles, &c. ... —
Sale of Toll and Other Rents ... —
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1361 -
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
 All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Noti ﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving  adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notiﬁ cation will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
 All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 02nd November, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 20th October, 2017.
 Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
 “Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
B 81216- 5,403 (10/2017)
Note.—   (i)  Local Authorities (Special Provisions) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 29, 2017.
 (ii) Anti-Dumping and Countervailing Duties Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 06, 2017.
 (iii)  Safeguard Measures Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic 
of Sri Lanka of October 06, 2017.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1362
PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  PUBLIC  SERVICE  COMMISSION - NWP
Open Competitive Examination for the Recruitment to the Grade III of the North Western Provincial Council 
Public Management Assistant Service - 2017
 1.0  Applications are invited from the Sri Lankan  Citizens Who are Permanent residents of the North Western Province 
to be recruited to the Posts of Grade III of the Public Management Assistant Service of the North Western Provincial 
Council. It is hereby announced that the above examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations in December 2017.
 2.0  Candidates who will be quali ﬁ ed on the results of the written examination conducted by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations, will be selected to be appointed for the post of Grade III of the Public Management Assistant Service 
of the North Western Provincial Council, on the basis of District population proportion of the North Western Province 
as per the Public Administration Circular 15/90.
 3.0  The Number of candidates who will be appointed and the effective date of the appointment will be decided by the 
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission. The North Western Provincial Council Public Service 
Commission reserves the right of ﬁ lling or not ﬁ lling all the vacancies or a certain number of vacancies, or taking the 
ﬁ nal decision in this regard.
 4.0  Salary:-As per the Public Administration Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016, the salary scale applicable to the 
Grades III, II and I of the Public Management Assistant Service is Rs. 28,940- 10 x 300 - 11 x 350 - 10 x 560 - 10 x 
660 - Rs.47,990. However, this will be paid to you with effect from 01.01.2020. Salaries will be paid according to the 
schedule II of the above circular from the date of appointment (Ofﬁ cers should be promoted to the Grade II in order 
to go beyond Rs.31,940 and they should be promoted to the Grade I in order to go beyond Rs. 35,790).
 5.0  This Post is permanent. The applicable pension scheme for the ofﬁ cers appointed to the Grade III of Public Management 
Assistant Service  by this examination will be decided in future in accordance with the policy decision taken by the 
Government in this regard.
 5.1 This appointment will be subjected to a probation period of three years. Appointees should pass the ﬁ rst efﬁ ciency 
bar examination within 03 years from the date of appointment to the Grade III of Public Management Assistant 
Service, as mentioned in the Service Minute.
 5.2 Appointees should obtain the competency in the other of ﬁ cial language/languages other than the language of 
enrolment in terms of the Public Administration Circular 01/2014 and subsequent circulars within 5 years from 
the date of appointment.
 6.0  
Qualiﬁ cations:- The following quali ﬁ cations will be applicable for the recruitment to the posts of Grade III of the 
Public Management Assistant Service of the North Western Provincial Council.
 (a)  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka who is a permanent resident in the territory of the North Western Provincial 
Council for a period at least 03 years as at closing date of applications.
 (b)  Age should be not less than eighteen years (18) and not more than thirty years (30) as at closing date of applications. 
(Accordingly, the age requirement wil be ful ﬁ lled only  if the date of birth of the applicant falls on or before 
14.11.1999 or on or after 14.11.1987).
 (c) Should have an excellent moral character.
 (d)  Should have obtained the following educational quali ﬁ cations.
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1363
 (1) Should have passed 06 subjects in the same sitting with Credit passes for four (04) subjects including Sinhala/
Tamil/English Language and Mathematics at the General Certiﬁ cate of Education (Ordinary Level) Examination.
 and
 (2) Should have passed all subjects (excluding Common General Test and General English) in the same sitting at 
the General Certiﬁ cate of Education (Advanced Level) Examination. Passing of 03 Subjects in sufﬁ cient under 
the old syllabus.
  it is comlpulsory that each applicant should have completed the quali ﬁ cations  relevent to the Post on or before 
the closing date of applications.
 7.0  (A)  Selection on the District Population Proportion Basis.
  Recruitment to the service will be done on representation basis. A number of vacancies will be reserved for  each 
Administrative District of the North Western Province according to the propotion of the Population of each District. 
Only the applicants from the respective District will be allowed to compete for the vacancies reserved for that District.
 
 (i) In the event there is no adequate number of successful applicants to ﬁ ll the vacancies reserved for a District, 
the balance number of vacancies will be allocated to the adjacent District.
  (B)  Quali ﬁ cations requited to be belonging to a District.
  An applicant should satisfy at least one of the following requirements in order to compete for the vacancies reserved 
for a District.
 (i) He/She should be a permanent resident of the respective District for a continuous period of a least three(03) 
years during precedent ﬁ ve (05) years to the closing date of applications. Otherwise,
 (ii) He/She should have undergone Secondary Education for a continuous period of ﬁ ve (05) years in the respective 
District.
 (C) Applicants should produce the residency  certi ﬁ cate issued by the Grama Niladhari and counter signed by the Divisional 
Secretary to prove the relevant District under (B) (ii) above, whenever requested.
Note :- 1.  Applicants will be allowed to select the District where his/her father's or mother's birthplace in situated, if his/ 
her father or mother served in a transferable service in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service or Public 
Corporation (Applicants should produce the Birth Certiﬁ cates of their parents for this purpose).
 2. Any applicant will not be allowed to compete for the vacancies more than one District. Once the preferred District 
is mentioned, it cannot be changed.
 8.0   Examination Procedure :-
 (A)   This Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil and English Languages. Applicant should select one 
language medium and all question papers should be answered in the selected language medium. Applicants will 
not be allowed to change the applied language medium at a later stage. This examination will be comprised of 
two question papers.
    Question Paper Marks Duration
(01) Language Skills  100 2 1/2 Hours
(02) Aptitude 100 1hour

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1364
Language Skills This question paper will be comprised of subjective questions to test the expression of ideas, 
comprehension, spelling, Language and essays, drafting of a given letter, preparation of 
charts and tables from given data, summarizing of a given text, writing the idea of several 
given sentences in single sentence and knowledge on usage of simple grammer. All questions 
should be answered.
Aptitude -  This question paper will be comprised of subjective questions to test the numerical skills, 
logical skills and general intelligence of the applicants. There will be 50 multiple choice and 
structured questions and all questions should be answered.
Note  :
 (i) These question papers will be prepared to test the quali ﬁ cations and skills of the candidates required for performing 
of the duties.
 (ii) Illegible handwriting and spelling mistakes in all written answer sheets will be penalized.
  Even though this is a competitive examination, applicants are required to obtain at least 50% of the total marks of 
the examination and at least 40% of the marks for each and every subject. Appointment will be given so as to ﬁ ll the 
number of vacancies reserved for this examination, in order of merit according to the total marks obtained.
 9.0  Penalty for false information.- Application should be ﬁ lled in due concern with accurate information. If a candidates 
is found to be ineligible according to the rules of this examination, his/her candidature is liable to be cancelled prior 
to the examination or during the examination or at any later stage.
 10.0  Examination Fees :- Every applicant should pay an examination fee to the Commissioner General of Examinations. 
A sum of Rupees Six Hundred (Rs.600) being the examination fee should be paid at any Post Ofﬁ ce/Sub -Post Ofﬁ ce 
to be credited to Revenue Head 2003-02-13 of Commissioner General of Examinations and the receipt obtained in 
the name of applicant should be af ﬁ xed to the application (A Photocopy of the receipt should be retained with the 
applicant for future reference). Receipts other than the above mentioned receipts obtain in the name of applicant or 
Money Orders or Stamps will not be accepted and it should be noted that the examination fee is non - refundable 
under any circumstance. It will not be allowed to transfer the fees to any other examination.
 11.0  Applications :- Applications should be prepared according to the specimen application given at the end of this notiﬁ cation 
using the both sides of the A4 (21 cm x 29cm) (Normal half- sheet) size paper including ;
  (A) paragraph 1.0 to 3.1 in the ﬁ rst page, and
  (B) paragraph from the paragraph 3.2 to the rest of the pages. Applications should be ﬁ lled legibly in own handwriting.
  (C) When preparing the applications, the name of the examination should be mentioned in English in addition to 
Sinhala in Sinhala applications, in Sinhala in addition to the English in English applications, as the title of the 
application.
 (D) When writing the name of the applicant under the paragraph 1.1 of the application, the last part of the full name 
of the applicant should be written ﬁ rst and the initials relevant to surname and other names should be written 
thereafter.
 Eg.- Full Name according  to 1.2 of the application - MATHURATA GAMARALALAGE BUDDHIKA SARATH 
KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA
 It should be written as GUNAWARDHANA  M. G. B. S. K. under the paragraph 1.1.
 The applications received after the closing date of applications and applications which do not comply with the 
specimen application, will be rejected without any notice. Further, it is the responsibility of the applicant to check 
whether the prepared application complies with the specimen. The applicant should bear the liability for the losses 
due to incomplete applications. It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the completed application. The copies of 
the certiﬁ cates or any other documents should not be enclosed with the application.
 

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1365
12.0    Cities and its Numbers, at which the examination will be conducted.
  City  No. of the City
Kurunegala  01
Kuliyapitiya  02
Maho  03
Chilaw  04
Puttlam  05
Note -
 01. It will not be allowed to change the applied Cities later. In the event there is no adequate number of applicants for a 
City they will be directed to the City of second preference. In the event there is no adequate number of applicants for 
the city of second preference, they will be directed to an adjacent city. However, if there is no adequate number of 
applicants even for that examination centre, they will be directed to another nearby examination centre.
 02.  Appointment letter will be issued to the name with initials as mentioned in the application and therefore, applicants 
should mention their name correctly in the application according to the given example. Applicants will not be allowed 
to change or to include/delete parts of the name at the time of giving the appointments.
12.1 The Signature of the applicant in the application and the admission card for examination should be attested 
by a Principal of a Government School, Justice of Peace, Commissioner of Oaths, Attorney-at-Law, Notary 
Public, Commissioned Ofﬁ cer in the Armed Forces, an Ofﬁ cer holding a Gazetted post in the Police Service or 
an ofﬁ cer holding a permanent post in the Public Service whose annual combined salary is above  Rs.240,360.
12.2 “Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class III of North Western Provincial Public 
Management Assistant Service - 2017”  along with the District and Language Medium should be clearly 
written on the top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application.
12.3 Duly completed applications should be sent through the registered post to Commissioner General of 
Examinations, Agency and Foreign Exams Division, Department of Examinations P. O. Box 1503, 
Colombo on or before 14.11.2017.
12.4 All applicants who have submitted the applications and paid the exminations fees on or before closing date 
of applications will be allowed to sit for the examination by the Commissioner General of Examinations 
presuming that only the persons who have ful ﬁ lled the basic quali ﬁ cations mentioned in this  Gazette have 
applied for the examination. Issuance of an Admission Card for the Examination should not be considered as 
an acceptance for fulﬁ llment of qualiﬁ cations for this post by the applicants. If it is found that an applicant 
has not completed the quali ﬁ cations at the time of the interview, the candidature of such applicants will be 
cancelled.
13.0  Admission Cards for the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations. Admission Card 
in which the signature should be attested, should be producted to the Supervisor by the candidates on the ﬁ rst day of 
the examination.
13.1  A paper notice will be published by the Department of Examinations immediately after issuing the admissions. 
In case the admission is not received even after two or three days of the paper notice, applicants should inquire 
about the admission from the  Agency and Foreign Exams Division of the Department of Exminations. When 
inquiring, it would be more productive to send a request letter by fax to the fax number mentioned in this 
notiﬁ cation including the name of the applied examination, full name of the applicant, National Identity Card 
Number, Address and a Fax number that can be used to receive a copy of the admission immediately. When 
making this request, it would be useful to keep a copy of the application, a copy of the receipt for the payment 
of examination fees, and a copy of the postal registration receipt of the application, ready with the applicant 
so as to verify details requested by the Deparment.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1366
 14.0  Every applicant should prove his/her identity by producing any of the following documents to the supervisor of the 
examination hall.
 (i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons, 
 (ii) Valid Passport.
 15.0 Issuance of an Admission Card to an applicant should not be considered as an acceptance for his/her eligibility to sit 
for the examination.
 15.1  Exam Results :
  Result sheet prepared in order merit according to the total marks obtained by the applicants at the written examination 
as mentioned in the paragraph 8.0 of this notiﬁ cation, will be sent to the Secretary, North Western Provincial Council 
Public Service Commission. Thereafter, the results will be sent personally to all applicants  or will be published in 
the www.results.exam.gov.lk website of the Department of Examinations.
 16.0  Applicants should abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the  Commissioner General of Examinations and 
to the descisions taken in respect of issuing the results, Applicants will be liable for any penalty imposed by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations if they  violate such rules  and regulations. Further, the decision of the North 
Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission on conducting this examination, giving appointments, all 
other matters and the matters not covered by this notiﬁ cation, if any, will be ﬁ nal and conclusive.
 17.0   “In the event of any mismatch or inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this noti ﬁ cation, 
Sinhala text shall prevail”.
 P
ADMINI KARIYAWASAM,
 Secretary,
 North Western Provincial Council Public  
 Service Commission.
North Western Provincial Council Public Service Commission,
Provincial Council Ofﬁ ce Complex,
Kurunegala.
28th September, 2017.
(Any liability will not be bared for any incorrect application or notiﬁ cation prepared by various institutions
based on this notiﬁ cation)
SPECIMEN APPLICATION
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to Class III of North Western Provincial Public Management 
Assistant Service - 2017
jhU m<d;a iNd rdcH l<ukdlrK iyldr fiajfha III jk fY%a‚hg n|jd .ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2017
(For ofﬁ cial use only)
Language Medium of Examination :-
Sinhala  -  2
Tamil  -  3
English  - 4  (Please write the relevant number inside the cage)

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1367
City      No. of the City
1
2
3
4
5
(Applied city cannot be changed later)
District Number of the District
(Please write the relevant District and the Number inside the cage)
(Kurunegala -01/Puttlam - 02)
1.0 Name :-
 1.1 Name with Initials placing initials at the end :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
    (In Block Letters)
    (Eg : GUNAWARDHANA,  H. M. S. K)
 
 1.2 Name in Full (In Block Letters)  :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
    (Eg : HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 
 1.3  Name in Full  :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
    (Sinhala/Tamil)
 
 1.4  National Identity Card Number :-
2.0 2.1 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
    (In Block Letters)
 
 2.2 Permanent Address :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
    (Sinhala/Tamil)
 
 2.3 Address to which the admission to be sent :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
    (In Block Letters)
3.0 3.1  Gender: Female  -   1
      Male  -   0
      (Write the relevant number inside the cage)
 3.2 Date of Birth: Year: Month: Date:
 3.3 Age as at 14.11.2017:  Years: Months: Days:
 3.4 Telephone Number :
²  Please mention the City and its Number where the 
applicant intends to sit for the examination according to 
this Gazette notiﬁ cation (Please see paragraph 12.1 for 
the Cities and Numbers where Examination Centers will 
be established)
²   The District of Residence from which you compete 
according to the paragraph 7.0 of the Gazette Notiﬁ cation

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1368
4.0 4.1 From which date you are residing in the District ?:–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
 4.2 Divisional Secretary/Assistant Government Agent Division of Residence :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
 4.3 Grama Niladhari Division:–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
5.0  Educational Quali ﬁ cations :
 5.1 Details of the G. C. E. (O/L) Examination
   (i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
    (ii) Index No. :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
   (iii) Results :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
  Subject Grade Subject Grade
 1  6
 2  7
 3  8
 4  9
 5  10
 5.2 Details of the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination 
 (i) Year and Month of the Examination :–––––––––––––––––––––––––.
 (ii) Index No :–––––––––––––––––––––––––
 (iii) Results :–––––––––––––––––––––––––
 Subject Grade
 1
 2 
 3
 4
 5.3   if a Degree has been obtained from a recognized University
 (i) University :––––––––––––––––––––––––
 (ii) Degree :––––––––––––––––––––––––
 (iii) Year of Examination :––––––––––––––––––––––––
6.0  Other Quali ﬁ cations :––––––––––––––––––––––––
7.0 Have you ever been convicted by a Court for any offence ? :––––––––––––––––––  (Please provide details if  ‘Yes’)
 (Please mark         as inside relevant cage) 
 Yes :   No :
8.0 Details of the Receipt for Payment of Examination Fees : 
 (i) Post Of ﬁ ce/Sub - Post Ofﬁ ce to which the Examination Fees was Paid :––––––––––––––––––––––––
 (ii) Number and the Date of Receipt :––––––––––––––––––––––––
 (iii) Amount Paid :––––––––––––––––––––––––
Please paste the receipt here ﬁ rmly (It would be useful to retain a copy of the receipt)

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV ^w& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h -2017'10'13
PART IV (A) – GAZETTE OF THE  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA – 13.10.2017
1369
9.0  Declaration of the Applicant :-
 
 (A) I certify that the information furnished by me in this application in true and accurate to the best of my Knowledge. 
I agree to bear the loss resulting from ﬁ lling this application incompletely or incorrectly. Further, I declare that I 
have ﬁ lled all parts of this application accurately.
 (B) I know that I will be ineligible for this post prior to the appointment and liable for termination of appointment after 
getting the appointment, if it is found that this declaration is false.
 (C) The receipt obtained after payment of examination fees is af ﬁ xed to this application. I know that I should abide by 
the rules and regulations related to the examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations and 
the decisions taken in respect of isssuing the results.
 (D) I declare that I will not make any request at a later stage to change any information mentioned in this application.
 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Applicant.
Date:–––––––––––––––
10.0   Attestation of the  Signature of the Applicant
   I do hereby certify that the applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................................................... is known to me pe rsonally, 
he/she placed his/her signature before me on ...................................................and he/she has paid the examina tion fees and 
pasted the receipt to this application.
 ––––––––––––––––––,
 Signature and the Rubber Stamp of the
 Attester. 
Date :––––––––––––––––––
Name in Full of the Certifying Ofﬁ ce :––––––––––––––––––
Designation :––––––––––––––––––
Address :––––––––––––––––––
(Please place the rubber stamp as proof)
(Note :- Any document other than the receipt of the payment of the examination fees should not be attached and sent with 
the application)
10-442
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.