

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2312$38 - 2022 foieïn¾ ui 29 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2022'12'29
No. 2312/38 -  thursday,   december  29,  2022
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- PG 6129 - 66 (12/2022) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.d.b. -21/78(XVI)b
ThE  uNIvERSITIES  ACT,  No.  16  Of  1978
ordINaNce made by the university Grants commission under section 18 of the universities act, No. 16 of 1978.
 Actg. secretary,
 university Grants commission.
colombo,
12th december, 2022.
Ordinance
1. this ordinance may be cited as the Postgraduate Institute of medicine (amendment) ordinance, No. 01 of 2022 
and shall come into operation on the date of its’ publication in the Gazette.
2. the Postgraduate Institute of medicine ordinance No. 01 of 1980, published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 83/7 
of april 10, 1980 as last amendment by the ordinance published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 2115/45 of march 22, 2019 
is hereby further amendment as follows :

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.2022
2a
 (1) in paragraph 10 thereof, by the addition immediately after item (1)(a)(vi), of the following new item :-
“(vii) the deputy director General of medical services of the ministry of the minister assigned the subject of 
health.” ;
 (2) in paragraph 13 thereof - 
 (i) by the repeal of item (v) of sub paragraph (1) thereof, and by the substitution therefor of the following :-
“(v) basic medical sciences ;” ;
 (ii) by the repeal of item (aj) of sub paragraph (1) thereof, and by the substitution therefor of the following :-
“(aj) sports and exercise medicine” ;
 (iii)  by the addition immediately after item (ak) of sub paragraph (1) thereof, of the following new item :-
“(a) oral and maxillofacial surgery.”.
(3) in paragraph 14 thereof -
 (i)  by the repeal of sub-paragraph (3a) thereof and the substitution therefor of the following :-
“(3a) Where the board of study has been established in respect of the specialty of dental surgery, 
such board of study shall consist of the following persons :-
 (a) director 
 (b) deputy director ;
 (c) a senior Professor, Professor (chair), Professor, associate Professor, head or senior Lecturer of 
the department or the division of the following disciplines nominated by the deans of Faculties of 
dental sciences of universities established under the act, on the recommendation of the relevant 
department or division of study :-
 (i) restorative dentistry ;
 (ii) Prosthetic dentistry ;
 (iii) Periodontology ;
 (iv) orthodontics ;
 (v) Paedodontics ;
 (vi) community dentistry ;
 (vii) oral and maxillofacial surgery ;
 (viii) oral medicine ;
 (ix) oral Pathology ;
 (x) basic sciences.
 (d) ten specialists to be nominated by the director General from among the consultants in the ministry 
of health of whom -
 (i) four specialists shall be from the National dental hospital, colombo group of hospitals 
representing one each from specialities of orthodontics, restorative dentistry, oral Pathology 
and oral and maxillofacial surgery ;
 (ii) four specialists (two each from specialists of orthodontics and restorative dentistry) from the 
teaching hospitals ;

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.2022
3a
 (iii) two specialists (one each from orthodontics and restorative dentistry) from the General 
hospital ;
 (e) three specialists (one each from orthodontics, restorative dentistry and oral Pathology) who are 
trainers from the college of dentistry and stomatology of sri Lanka. In an event of no eligible 
member for nomination from any of the above three specialties, the college may nominate the next 
eligible member from any of the three specialties among orthodontics, restorative dentistry or oral 
Pathology.
 (f) one member from the college of General dental Practitioners, sri Lanka” ; 
(iii) by the insertion immediately after sub paragraph (3d) thereof, of the following new sub paragraph :-
“(3e) the board shall establish a board of study in oral and maxillofacial surgery which shall 
consist of the following persons :-
 (a) director ;
 (b) deputy director ;
 (c) a senior Professor, Professor (chair), Professor, associate Professor, head or senior Lecturer              
of the  following disciplines nominated by the deans of Faculties of dental sciences of universities 
established under the act, on the recommendation of the relevant department or division of               
study :-
 (i) one member from the discipline of oral and maxillofacial surgery ;
 (ii) one member from the discipline of oral medicine ;
 (d) eight specialists to be nominated by the director General from among the consultants of the ministry 
of health ;
 (i) two consultant oral and maxillofacial surgeons from specialized hospitals ;
 (ii) three consultant oral and maxillofacial surgeons from National hospitals, teaching hospitals 
or Provincial General hospitals ; 
 (iii) two consultant oral and maxillofacial surgeons from district General hospitals or base 
hospitals category (a) ;
 (iv) one consultant cancer surgeon from cancer Institute maharagama ;
 (e) two specialists in oral and maxillofacial surgery nominated by the college of oral and maxillofacial 
surgeons of sri Lanka (one member should be attached to a university and the other member should 
not be attached to a university)
 (f) members from boards of study ;
 (i) one member appointed by the board of study in surgery ;
 (ii) one member appointed by the board of study in medicine ;
 (iii) one member appointed by the board of study in anesthesiology ;
 (v) one member appointed by the board of study in dental surgery ;

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2022'12'29
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 29.12.2022
4a
(4) in paragraph 15 thereof, by the repeal of sub paragraph (3)(b) and the substitution therefor of the following :-
 “(b) Where a specialty board has been established in respect of a general or sub-specialty in which instruction, 
education, training and evaluation are carried out under the general direction of a relevant board of study, 
such specialty board shall consist of the following persons :-
 (i) director ;
 (ii) deputy director ;
 (iii) ten other members appointed as follows :
 (a) up to four members from the ministry of health representing training centers ;
 (b) three members from the universities established under the universities act;
 (c) one member from the respective professional body, in active service in the public sector;
	(d)	 two	members	being	experts,	in	the	field	relevant	to	the	specialty	;
 (ba) (i) in the event of non-availability of eligible members under item (b)(iii)(a) or (b)(iii)(c), these positions 
shall	be	filled	by	experts	in	the	field	relevant	to	the	specialty	;
	 (bb)	 a	maximum	of	two	members	out	of	the	ten	members	specified	above,	may	be	non-medical	or	non-dental	
subjects experts ;
 (bc) one member appointed under item (b)(iii)(d) or sub paragraph (ba) shall be from medical or dental 
specialists who represents the private sector and ;
(bd) nominations for items (b)(iii)(a), (b)(iii)(b), (b)(iii)(c) and sub paragraph (ba) shall be made by the board 
of study, and nominations for item (b)(iii)(d) shall be made by the board of management.”.
(5) In Paragraph 25 thereof, by the substitution for the words “basic and medical sciences”, “sports medicine”, 
and	“Orthopedic	Surgery	or	any	other	specialty”	in	the	definition	of	the	expression	“Specialty	in	Medicine”	of	the	words	
“Basic	Medical	Sciences”,	“Sport	and	Exercise	Medicine”	and	“Orthopedic	Surgery,	Oral	and	Maxilloficial	Surgery	or	any	
other specialty”.
eoG  12 - 0380
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.