

<!-- page 1 -->

N.B.—Part I : III   of the Gazette No. 2210 of 15.01.2021 was not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Important  notIce  regardIng  acceptance  of  notIces 
for  publIcatIon  In  the  Weekly  “gazette”
AtteNtIoN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of  12th February,  2021 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 29th  January, 2021.
electronic transactions act, no. 19 of 2006 - section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 
GanGani LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2021.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
the gazette of the democratic socialist republic of sri lanka
  
Page 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
Page 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 02
(published by authority)
part III — lands
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 2"212- 2021 ckjdß ui 22 jeks isl=rdod - 2021'01'22                                                             
No. 2,212 - FRID Ay,  JANUARy   22, 2021
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
B 82097 - 353 (01/2021) 1


<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2021'01'22
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI lanka – 22.01.2021
2
miscellaneous lands notices
Land Commissioner General's No.: 4/10/39254. 
Provincial Land  Commissioner's No.:  EP/28/LB/LS/BAT/
KPN/24.
notIfIcatIon    made  under    state   land  
regulatIon    no. 21 (2) 
IT is hereby notified that for the  purpose of Commercial, 
Viyaramuhthu Vinodini  has  requested on lease a State 
Land  containing in extent about 6.0703 Hec. marked as 
Lot C in Mada/KRP/(N) 2011/044 situated in the  villlage 
of Kayankerny  which belongs to the Grama Niladhari  
Division of 211 A Kayankerny  coming  within the  area of  
authority  of Koraleipaththu - North Divisional Secretariat 
in the  District of  Batticaloa. 
02. Given below  are  the boundaries of the land  requested. 
On the North by  :   Access road and  Lot No D;  ; 
On the  East by  :  Lot No. D and Poolaviwaththa  ;  
On the South by  :  Poolaviwaththa  ; 
On the West by  :  Lot No. B. 
The land requested can  be given  on lease for the  
necessary purpose. Therefore, the  Government  has intended 
to  lease out the  land  subject to other  government approved 
conditions and  the  following  Conditions :  
   Terms of the  lease  .- Thirty years (30)  (From 20.11.2020 
until 19.11.2050);
  The  annual rent of the lease .-  2% of  the   market 
value of the land, as per valuation of the  chief valuer 
for the  year 2020 of  operation, when the annual 
value of the land  is less than Rupees five Million  (Rs. 
5,000,000) for that year, 4% of the market value of 
the land,  as per valuation of the chief valuer for the  
year of operation of the lease when the annual value 
of the land is more than rupees  Five  Million  (Rs. 
5,000,000) for  that year.This  lease amount  should be 
revised, once in every five years and  20%  of the  lease 
amount charged in the  final year of the  preceding  05 
year  period, should be added to annual lease amount. 
  Premium .- Not charged 
  
 (c) The lessee must, within one year of the  commencement 
of the lease develop  the  said  land,  in such  a 
manner as to captivate the  mind  of the  Divisional 
Secretary/ Provincial land commissioner/Deputy Land 
Commissioner;
 (b)   The lessee must not use this  land  for any purposes 
other  than  for the  purpose  of Commercial activities;  
 (c)  This  lease must  also  be subject to the  other  special 
conditions stipulated and  imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary and by other  institutions;
 (d)   The buildings constructed must  be maintained in a  
proper state of repair; 
 (e)  Once the land  is given on lease and in  the event of 
failure on the part  of the  lessees  to substantiate within  
the specified time  frame the  purpose for  which  the  
land was obtained, action will be taken to  terminate 
the  lease; 
 (f)  No sub-leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from 20.11.2020;
 (g)   Payment  of the  lease must  be regularly made and if  
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto  
lapse. 
If  acceptable reasons are not  submitted  to me  in writing  
within six  weeks  of the  date  which this notice is  published 
in the Gazette  to the  effect that this  land must not be given 
on lease,  the land  will be leased out   as requested.
 T. U. K. SaTannayaKa, 
 Assistant  Land  Commissioner , 
 For Land  Commissioner  General. 
Land  Commissioner General's  Department, 
"Mihikatha Medura",  Land  Secretariat,  No.1200/6, 
Rajamalwatta Rd, Battaramulla.
22nd January 2021.
01-734 
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.