

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
1A
wxl 1777$35 - 2012 iema;eïn¾ 27 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'09'27
No. 1777/35  -  THURSDAY ,   SEPTEMBER  27,  2012
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
1A
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
MINUTE  OF  THE  OFFICE  EMPLOYEES’  SERVICE
Following Minute on Office Employees’ Service is hereby published in substitution to the Service Minute dated  03.10.2002
published in the Gazette Extraordinary Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of the No. 1258/20 dated 18.10.2002.
“on the order of the Public Services Commission”
B. P. P. S. ABEYGUNARATNE,
Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administraion and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
07th  September, 2012.
1. Effiective Date .— This Service Minute shall come into force with effect from 01.01.2012 without prejudice
however to any action taken or purported to be taken in terms of the provisions of the Service Minute published in the
Gazette Extraordinary of the Government No. 1258/20 dated 18.10.2002.
2. Definition :—
2.1 The term “Minute” shall mean the Minute of the Office Employees’ Service.
2.2 “Director General” shall mean the Director General of Combined Services.
2.3 “Service” shall mean the Office Employees’ Service.
2.4 “Period of Satisfactory Service” shall mean :
(i) A period of service during which an officer has earned all salary increments which were to be earned by
him by way of performing his duties efficiently and diligently, satisfying qualifications required to be
confirmed in the appointment and during which the officer has not committed a punishable offence.
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
2A
(ii) A period during which the annual salary increments which were to be granted to the officer have been
suspended/reduced/terminated/deferred on legal grounds, if any and at the instances where a punishable
offence mentioned under First Schedule on offences in Part II of Establishments Code has been committed,
a period of three years from the date of committing such offence and at the instances where a punishable
offence mentioned under Second Schedule on offences in Part II of Establishments Code has been
committed, a period of one year from the date of committing such offence shall be excluded in the
calculation of satisfactory period of service.
2.5 “Due date” shall mean 01.01.2012 which is the effective date of this Service Minute.
2.6 The term “Period of Active Service” shall mean the actual period served by the officer engaged in duties
assigned to him/her receiving relevant salary.  Periods on no pay leave other than maternity leave approved
by the Government, shall not be counted for active period of service.
3. Structure.— This “Service” shall comprise of officers appointed to Class III and appointed on promotion to
Class II, Class I and Special Grade of Office Employees’ Service on the following annual salary scales :
4. Annual Consolidated Salary Scale  :
4.1 Salary Code and the Monthly Salary Scale relevant to the Employee category :
PL 1 - 2006 -A - Rs. 11,730 - 10x120 - 10x130 - 10x145 - 12x160 - Rs. 17,600.
4.2 Grading system relevant to the Employee category and initial monthly salary step relevant to the grading
system.
Grade Initial Salary Step
III Step 1 Rs. 11,730
II Step 12 Rs. 13,060
I Step 22 Rs. 14,375
Special Grade Step 32 Rs. 15,840
4.3 Officers recruited to the service shall be subjected to a probation period of three years.
5. Cadre :
There is no specific number of Posts for each Grade and  Grade III, II, I and Special Grade belong to the Cadre of
Combined Service. It means the Combined Cadre for all Grades belonging to the Employee category as approved under FR.
71.
Combined Carder - 12475
5.1 Cadre shall be determined based on the requirement of each Ministries and Departments.
5.2 Cadre shall be indicated in annual estimates under each Head and Standards.
5.3 Posts included in the Service are indicated in Schedule A.
6. Control :
6.1 The Service shall be under the control of the Director General of Combined Services.
6.2 “Director General of Combined Services to whom the powers have been vested by the Public Services
Commission” shall be the appointing authority.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
3A
7. Appointment of Employees relevant to Grade III :
Recruitment of persons who have satisfied qualifications mentioned in Section 8 below, to the Grade III shall be
made by a structured interview conducted by Director General.
7.1 Letter of Appointment shall be issued by the Director General.
8. Eligibility :
Out of the persons who satisfy following qualifications, selections shall be made as per Section 7 above after calling
applications by the Government Gazette, public notifications and publishing advertisements on the Web sites.
8.1 Shall  be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
8.2 Shall be not less than 18 years and not meore than 45 years of age on the closing date of applications.
Maximum age limit shall not be applicable for those who already hold permanent and pensionable Posts in
Public Service.
8.3 Shall be of good character and sound physical health.
8.4 Shall have passed GCE (O/L) Examination in not less than 06 subjects with Credit passes for at leat two
subjects in not more than two sittings.
9. Efficiency Bar :
Efficiency Bar is an oral test conducted by a Board of Interview as determined by the Director General of Combined
Services.
9.1 Shall pass in the First Efficiency Bar Examination before tha lapse of three years (03) from the date of
appointment to Grade III.
9.2 Shall pass in the Second Efficiency Bar Examination before the lapse of three (03) years from the date of
promotion to Grade II.
9.3 Shall pass in the Third Efficiency Bar Examination before the lapse of five (05) years from the date of
promotion to Grade I.
9.4. Action shall be taken as per the provisions in Chapter X V olume I of the Procedural Rules of the Public
Service Commission regarding the employees who do not pass the relevant Efficiency Bar Examination
within the prescribed period.
9.5 Following criteria shall be based at the oral test conducted by the Interview Board.
9.5.1 First Efficiency Bar :
(a) To test whether the employee has gained sufficient knowledge on the tasks entrusted to the
institution where he/she serves - 30 marks
(b) To test the knowledge on General Office Systems and Institutional Administrative method in relation
to his/her service - 30 marks
(c) To test whether the employee has achieved sufficient knowledge and competency regarding various
tasks entrusted to the post - 40 marks.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
4A
9.5.2 Second Efficiency Bar :—
(a) To test the knowledge of Employee on the procedural and legal revisions etc., made within the field
during the past period in relation to the subjects covered at the First Efficiency Bar Examination and
the skills of the Employee on new changes relevant to his duties. - Marks 100 (Marks will be
allocated on the basis indicated in Section 9.5.1.)
9.5.3 Third Efficiency Bar :
(a) To test to knowledge of employee on the procedural and legal revisions etc., made within the field
during the period in relation to the subjects covered at the First and Second Efficiency Bar examination
and the skills of the Employee on new changes relevant to his duties- Marks 100 (Marks will be
allocated on the basis indicatd in Section 9.5.1.)
9.5.4 It is required to obtain a minimum of 40% marks for a pass :—
9.6 It is the reponsibility of the Head of the Department to conduct Efficiency Bar Examination of Office
Employees’ Service before the prescribed date.
9.7 The Interview Board shall consist of two staff officers of the respective Departments and a staff
officer from the Departments.
9.8 Once the Efficiency Bar Examination is held, the certificate to prove the passing of examination
shall be submitted to the Director General.
9.9 It is required to pass in the prescribed Efficiency Bar for confirmation/pormotion in the Service.
10  General Conditions :
10.1 The post is permanent and pensionable.
10.2 The Employee shall be subjected to probation of three years.
10.3 Passing the First Efficiency Bar is a pre-requisite for confirmation in Service.
10.4 Provisions in Chapter VI, VII, & VIII, V olume of Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission shall be
applicable for every recruitment.
10.5 Shall pass the Second Language Proficiency Test within 5 years from the date of appointment. (Basic level
in Language Course Examination held by the Department of Official Languages). The salary increment of the
employees who do not achieve the required level of proficiency within the prescribed period shall be
deferred.
11. Promotions :
A promotion scheme based on the performance shall be applied in the following manner :
11.1 Promotion from Grade III to Grade II :
11.1.1 Promotion under Average Performance :

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
5A
(a) Pre-requisites
(i) Shall have been confirmed in the appointment ; and,
(ii) Shall have completed a minimum of ten (10) years of active and satisfactory period of service in Grade III
and earned all due salary increments falling within the above period ;
(iii) Shall have proved a performance at average level or above during the 10 years period immediately
preceding the date of promotion according to the approved performance evaluation procedure ;
(iv) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of 5 yeras immediately preceding the date of promotion ;
(v) Shall have obtained proficiency in Second Language at the relevant level ;
(vi) Shall have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination of due date.
(b) Method of Promotions :
When a employee who has satisfied the required qualifications makes a  request for promotion by using a
form along with the recommendation of the Head of Department and Secretary of the Ministry for promotion
to Class II shall be made effective with effect from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications
after verifying these qualifications by the Director General.
11.1.2 Promotion under Exceptional Performance :
(a) Pre requisites for Promotion :
(i) Shall have been confirmed in the appointment ;
(ii) Shall have completed a satisfactory and active period of service for six (6) years in Grade III of the Service
Category and earned all due salary increments falling within the above 6 years ;
(iii) Shall have completed 5 years of satisfactory service immediately preceding the date of promotion ;
(iv) Shall have passed relevant efficiency bar on due date ;
(v) Shall have achieved the level of proficiency at Second Language ;
(vi) Shall have proved a level of performance above average performance during the 6 years immediately
preceding as per the approved performance appraisal scheme.
(b) Method of applying for Promotion  :
Employees who have satisfied the requirements indicated from I to VI in 11. 1.2 should apply in accordance
with the Gazette notification published by the Director General.
(c) Method of Promotion :
When a candidate who has passed the written aptitude test conducted by the Commissioner General of
Examination on behalf of Director General of Combined Services makes a request for promotion through the
Head of Department and the  Secretary of the respective Ministry using the specimen form, the promotion to
Grade II shall be made effective with effect from the date on which the employee who completes the five
years service from the date of appointment and satisfied other requirements after verifying these qualifications
by the Director General of Combined Services.
4— G 16673

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
6A
Note :
(i) It is required to obtain a minimum of 60% of marks for a pass in the test conducted for promotions on
exceptional performance. Further, the test for promotions on exceptional performance shall be conducted
only once a year. An Officer can sit this examination only once.
(ii) An Officer, who fails to sit for this examination due to any special reason beyond his control, shall sit for
the aptitude test held afterwards. The date of promotion on exceptional performance of such an officer
shall be the date on which the officer passed that examination.
11.2 Promotion from Grade II to Grade I
11.2.1 Promotion under Average Performance :
(a) Pre-requisites :
(i) Shall have completed a minimum of nine (09) years satisfactory and active period of service in Grade II
and earned all nine (09) salary increments falling within the above period ;
(ii) Shall have completed a satisfactory service of five (05) years immediately preceding the date of promotion;
(iii) Shall have proved a performance at average level or above during the 09 years period immediately
preceding the date of promotion according to the approved performance evaluation procedure ;
(iv) Shall have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination on due date.
(b) Method of Promotions :
When an employee who have satisfied the required qualifications makes a  request for promotion by using
a form along with the recommendation of the Head of Department and Secretary of the Ministry the promotion
to Class I shall be made effective with effect from the date on which the employee satisfied qualifications
after verifying these qualifications by the Director General.
11.2.2 Promotion under Exceptional Performance :
(a) Pre-requisites  :
(i) Shall have completed 8 years of service in Grade II of the Service and earned all due salary increments
falling within the above 8 years ;
(ii) Shall have completed 5 years of satisfactory service immediately preceding the date of promotion as per
the approved performance appraisal scheme ;
(iii) Shall have proved a level of performance above average performance during the 8 years immediately
preceding as per the approved performance appraisal scheme (as satisfactory, highly satisfactory,
excellent) ;
(iv) Shall have passed relevant efficiency bar on due date.
Note.—  (appearing for tests for promotions under exceptional performance)
Until a common methodology is introduced and implemented by the Government for performance appraisal,
those who have proved a performance at satisfactory level or above at the annual performance appraisal
shall be given opportunity to sit for the written aptitude test/structured interview for promotion on
exceptional performance.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
7A
(b) Method of Promotion  :
A structured interview shall be conducted by an interview board appointed by the Director General, for the
officers who have satisfied the required qualifications and those who score 50% or above from the structured
interview shall be promoted to Grade I by the Director General with effect from the date on which the Officer
completes eight (08) years after promoting to Grade II.
11.3.1 Promotion from Grade I to Special Grade  :
(a) Pre-requisites  :
(i) Shall have completed a minimum of nine (09) years satisfactory and active period of service in Grade I of
the Service and earned nine  (09) salary increments ;
(ii) Shall have completed  five (05) years of satisfactory service immediately preceding the date of promotion;
(iii) Shall have proved a level of performance  above average performance during the nine (09) years immediately
preceding as per the approved performance appraisal scheme ;
(iv) Shall have passed the relevant efficiency bar examination on due date.
(b) Method of Promotion  :
When an employee who have satisfied the required qualification  makes a  request for promotion by using
a form along with the recommendation of the Head of Department and Secretary of the Ministry the promotion
to Special Grade shall be made effective with effect from the date on which the employee becomes eligible for
promotion after verifying these qualifications by the Director General.
12. Assignment of Duties  :
12.1 The Head of Department shall assign duties based on the service requirement, seniority, experience, etc.
12.2 Promotions shall not be made depending on the vacancies. The Head of Department shall have the authority
to engage an employee in a post belonging to the next higher Grade when it is not assign duties in a post
belonging to the same Grade.
Note : Even though an employee is promoted to Grade I such employee can be assigned duties in a post in
Grade II where a vacancy is not available in a post in Grade I mentioned in the Schedule.
12.3 Employees who are recruited to the post of sanitary labourer and watcher shall have no rights to change the
posts. They can change their posts once they are granted promotions.
12.4 Only the employees recruited as sanitary labourers shall be engaged in the duties of that post.
13. Engagement in the service :
13.1 Employees are subjected to transfers and they can be appointed and sent to any part of the Island.
13.2 T ransfers of employees to the posts indicated in Schedule A shall be in the following manner :
13.2.1 Transfers among Ministries shall be made by the Director General.
13.2.2 Transfers among Departments in the Ministry shall be made by the Secretary of the  respective
Ministry informing it to the Director General.

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
8A
13.2.3 Transfers within one and the same Department shall be made by the Head of Department informing
it to the Director General.
14. Absorption of Employees into Newly Established Service :
Employees who were serving in the service as at the prescribed date shall be absorbed into the new Grading System
as per the method of salary conversion in Section 4, Chapter VII of the Establishments Code. However, the date of
increment shall not be changed due to the absorption and the date shall remain unchanged as the increment date
existed before the absorption. Further the Officer shall not be placed on the next higher step due to the entitlement
of a corresponding salary step.
(i) Employees in Class III to Grade III.
(ii) Employees in Class II to Grade I.
(iii) Employees in Class I to Grade I subject to exception in below IV .
(iv) Employees who have completed at least a period of nine years (09) in Class I and enarned at least nine (09)
salary increments and satisfied other service requirements shall be absorbed into Special Grade to be
effective from the date of implementation of this Service Minute.
15. Other Regulations :
In addition to the conditions stipulated in the Service Minute, all employees are abide by the regulations of the
Establishments Code, Financial Regulations, Departmental Orders, Procedural Rules of the Public Service commission,
other regulations or orders issued by the Government from time to time.
16. Matters not provided for in this minute  :
Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Director General of Combined Services.
17. Interim Provisions :
The Officers who have been appointed to Class I under previous Service Minute as at the implementation date of the
new service shall be exempted from the requirement of passing the Efficiency Bar of Grade I.  A concessionary period
of three years from the effective date of the service minute shall be given to apply the provisions of this minute to
the employees already in the service. The employees shall satisfy qualifications prescribed in the new Service
Minute within the above concessionary period. For this purpose, qualification shall mean the passing efficiency bar
and second language.
Schedule A — Posts belonging to the service
Class Posts
Special Grade Chief Karyala Karya Sahayake (Arachchi)
The Head of the Department shall take into consideration following criteria when appointing
an employe holding a post in special Grade to the post of Chief Karyala Karya Sahayake
(Arachchi) :
1. Work, attendence and conduct of the employee ;
2. Commitment to the service ;
3. Experience and skills on supervision an control over employees ;
4. Confidentiality built up with the higher management of the department ;
5. Shall be a person who have not been subjected to severe punishment on disciplinary
grounds during the service.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
9A
Class Posts
Grade I T elephone Operator
Record Keeper
Book Binder
Roneo Machine Operator
Photocopy Machine Operator
Grade II Karyala Karya Sahayaka
Cycle Orderly
Messenger
Grade III Office Labourer
Sweeper
Garden Labourer
Office Watcher
Sanitary Labourer
APPENDIX  I
Syllabus for Promotion of Employees from Grade III to II of Office Employees Service under Exceptional Performance
(See Section 11.1.2 of the minute)
1. Aptitude Test :
A written aptitude test designed to assess whether the employee has achieved required knowledge, skills and
atitude in order to perform the duties entrusted to him as determined by the appointing authority in efficiency
beyond average level.
Syllabus of the Test and the Structure of the Question Paper
A question paper consists of questions for short answers/multiple choice questions and semi-structured questions
to test the knowledge, attitudes and skills of the employee on the following facts :
* General knowledge on office equipments and machinery such as computers utilized at a Government Office
and knowledge on usage and maintenance of machinery ;
* Duties and responsibilities of an office employee in using resources efficiently of an office such as electricity,
water, communication channels and stationeries ;
* Knowledge and practice on duties such as moving files, protection of files, tappol and attendance, leave
entitlement and availing of leave ;
* Practice in office activities such as paper maintenance of office and environment, performance of duties
entrusted by Heads, public relations and interpersonal relations.
2. Employees shall secure a minimum of 60 percent of the total marks for a pass.
3. Examination for promotion under exceptional performance shall be held once a year.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'09'27
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 27.09.2012
10A
APPENDIX  2
Structured Interview for Promotion of Employees from Grade II to I on  Exceptional Performance
(See Section 11.2.2 (b) of the minute)
1. Authority who conducts the interview .— The structured interview shall be conducted by a Board of Interview
approved by the Director General of Combined Services.
2. Interview shall be held once a year on the basis of  requirement.
3. Making Scheme of the interview.
Fields to which marks are allocated Miximum Pass
Marks 100 Marks
1. Special Skills —  Special skills the employee demonstrates other than the duties
entrusted to him/her, dedication to service and special contribution for 50
activities concurrent to routine duties
05 marks for each contribution
2. Performance Appraisal
* 09 marks for “Excellent” each 45
* 06 marks for “Good” each
* 03 marks for “satisfactory” each
During the 05 years immediately preceding the date of promotion
Skills demonstrated at the inerview 05
100
10 - 580
50%
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.