

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2013
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1829$24 - 2013 iema;eïn¾ ui 23 jeks i÷od - 2013'09'23
No. 1829/24  - MONDAY ,  SEPTEMBER 23,  2013
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk. 1A
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,  No.  14  OF  2008
Order under Sub Section (4) of Section 3
BY virtue of the powers vested in me by Sub-section(4) of Sections 3of the  Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of
2008 as amended, I, Lakshman Yapa Abeywardena, Minister of Investment Promotion being the Minister in charge of the
subject of Investment Promotions, in consultation with the Minister whom the subject of Ministry of Finance do by this
Order declare that :
1. The notification containing the relevant information of a Project to set up and operate an Intergrated Resort
including minimum 400 room hotel with meeting and convention facilities, gaming activities, fine dining restaurants and other
associated facilities at D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, Colombo in the Western Province, which was identified as a Strategic
Development Project for the purpose of aforesaid Act, was published in Gazette Extraoridnary No. 1819/29 dated 18th July
2013 :-
2. The approval of Cabinet of Ministers has been obtained in terms of Sub-section (3) of Section 3 to declare the
project to set up and operate an Integrated Resort including minimum 400 room hotel with meeting and convention facilities,
gaming activities, fine dinning restaurants and other associated facilities at D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, Colombo in the
Western Province as a Strategic Development Project ;
3. The above Strategic Development Project shall be called and known as a  "Project to set up and operate an
Integrated Resort including minimum 400 room hotel with meeting and convention facilities, gaming activities, fine dinning
restarurants and other associated facilities at D. R. Wijewardena Mawatha, Colombo in the Western Province" and that the
Project Company is known as Lake Leisure Holdings (Private) Limited ;
4. The aforesaid Project shall commence its commercial operations of the project within a period of Fourty Eight (48)
months from the date of the Project Agreement signed with the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka on 27th June 2013 ; and
5. The exemption from the enactments specified in the Schedule to this order shall apply to the Project Company and
to the Sub-contractors approved by the Project Company as provided in the Schedule and shall be operative for the duration
specified in this Schedule. The date on which the exemptions shall become operative shall be the 27th June 2013.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2013
2A
SCHEDULE
1.  The Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 as amended relating to the imposition of income
tax shall not apply to the profit of the Company to be generated from the activities of the Project for a period
of Ten (10) years reckoned from the year of assessment as may be determined by the Board.
The said tax exemption period will commence from the first year in which the Company makes taxable profit
or Three (03) years after commencement of commercial operations, whichever falls first.
After the expiration of the aforesaid tax exemption period, the profits and income of the Company shall be
charged at the rate of the lower of Six per centum (6%) or Fifty per centum (50%) of the prevailing tax rate for
the hotel industry, for a period of Twelve (12) years immediately succeeding the last date of the tax exemption
period.
(ii) Tax on Dividends
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit of the Company will be exempted from
the income tax during the said Ten (10) years tax exemption period and One (01) year thereafter.
(iii) Withholding Tax
The Company will be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on interest on foreign loans taken for
capital expenditure and technical fees, management fees, royalty fees and marketing fees.
The Company will be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on management fees, royalty payments
and marketing fees provided the fees do not exceed Three Per centum (3%) of gross operating revenues by
way of basic management fees/roylaties, marketing fees at One point Fiver per centum (1.5%) of gross
operating revenue and Ten per centum (10%) of gross operating profits by way of incentive managment
fees.
(iv) Paye Tax
The expatriate staff of the Company will be exempted from payment of Pay As You Earn Tax (PAYE) subject
to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of 30 employees. This
concession shall be applicable for a period of Five (05) years. The Company is required to gradually replace
expatriate staff with local employees on a  best-effort basis.
2.  Value Added Tax Act (V AT) No. 14 of 2002
The payment of Value Added Tax (V AT) on the impotation of Project related goods and the local purchases of
project related goods during the project implementation period of Fourty Eight (48) months will be exempted from
charge and payment of V AT. The V A T exemption shall be applicable not only for direct supplies to the
Company/Project but also supplies made by a sub-contractor to a contractor for supplies to the Company/Project
as described and permitted in the V AT Act, as amended.
The Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT on value of supply as defined in the V AT Act no. 14 of 2002
as amended, on the commencement of commercial operations.
3.  Betting and Gaming Levy Act No. 40 of 1988
The liability for the betting and gaming activities shall be as per the provisions of the Betting and Gaming Levy
Act, No. 40 of  1988 as amended, such that the prevailing rate on the gross collections will apply (being the
amounts collected from customers) excluding the customized cost of incentives/discounts and associated costs
including taxes, in attracting the customers.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'09'23
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.09.2013
3A
4. Port and Airport Development Levy Act, No. 18 of 2011
- The  Company will be fully exempted from the payment and charge of Port and Airport Development Levy
(PAL) on all items imported for implementing the Project (whether directly imported by the Company or
sourced through contractors) as described and permitted in the PAL Act as amended, during the project
implementation period, subjected to the same conditions referred to in item 6 below.
5. Finance Act, No. 05 of 2005
The contractor/contractors of the Company shall be exempted from Construction Industry Guarantee Fund
Levy imposed under the Finance Act No. 5 of 2005 as amended, in relation to the Project.
6. Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items [Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)]
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all project related items in capital nature and any other
project related items as approved by the Board imported in the name of the Company implementing the
Project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of the Project whether directly imported by the
Company or sourced through the contractors or Sub-contractors to the contractors provided that the goods
consigned in the name of the Company other than the items mentioned in the Negative List within the project
implementation period of Fourty Eight (48) months. The Items in the Negative List will be also exempted from
the Custom Duty where such items are either not wholly produced in Sri Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient
quality, quantity and time lines for Project completion.
L
AKSHMAN YAPA ABEYWARDENA, MP
Minister of Investment Promotions.
Colombo.
23rd September, 2013.
10 - 222
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
SCHEDULE (Contd.)