

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2401$28 - 2024 iema;eïn¾ ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'09'13
No. 2401/28 -  friday,   september  13 ,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a- pG 6869 - 504 (09/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
COAST   CONSER vATION  AND  COASTAL  RESOuRCE   MANAGEMENT   DEPARTMENT
Sri Lanka Coastal Zone and Coastal Resource Management Plan 2024 - 2029
Prepared under Section 12(1) of the Coat Conservation and Coastal Resource Management Act, No. 57 of 1981
the public are hereby informed that the sri Lanka Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management plan 2024 was 
approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on 12th August, 2024 and the Plan is implemented with effect from the date of Gazette 
Notification.
 Prasanna Ranathunga,
 minister of Urban development of housing.
ministry of Urban development,
sethsiripaya,
battaramulla.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
2a
List of Acronyms and Abbreviation
ad    assistant director
adb    asian development bank
aia     archaeological impact assessment
bC    before Christ
bOd    biochemical Oxygen demand
bOi    board of investment
CBOs    Community-Based Organizations
CC&CrmaC   Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management advisory Council
CC&Crmd  Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management department
CCa     Coast Conservation act
CCC    Community Coordination Committees
CCd    Coast Conservation department
Cea     Central environmental authority
COd    Chemical Oxygen demand
Crmp     Coastal resources management project
Ctb    Ceylon t ourist board
CZ    Coastal Zone
CZ&Crmp .  Coastal Zone and Coastal resource management plan 
CZm    Coastal Zone management
CZmp     Coastal Zone management plan
daNida    danish international development agency
dCC    director of Coast Conservation
dfC   department of forest Conservation
di   department of irrigation
dfar   department of fisheries and aquatic resources
dpL    dune protection Lines
ds    divisional secretaries
dsd    divisional secretary’s division
dWLC    department of Wildlife Conservation
eeZ    exclusive economic Zone
eia     environmental impact assessment
eNsO    “el Nino” southern Oscillation
epC    environmental protection Committees
epL    environmental pollution License
epZ    export processing Zones
FAO    Food and Agriculture Organization
fd    forest department
fdpa     forest department protected areas
GbbOa   Glass-bottom boat Owners association
GCrmN   Globle Coral reef monitoring Network
Gdp     Gross domestic product

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
3a
Gef    Global environmental facility
Gis    Geographical information system
GNp     Gross National product
GOsL    Government of sri Lanka
Gsmb    Geological survey and mines bureau
GtZ    German t echnical Corporation
hiCZmp    hambantota integrated Coastal Zone management project
ieC    information education and Communication
iee   initial environmental examination
ip     industrial parks
ipCC    international panel on Climate Change
irmp     integrated resources management programme
iti    industrial t echnology institute
iUCN   international Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural resources
JbiC/Oda   Japanese bank for international Cooperation/Oversea development administration
KepZ    Katunayake export processing Zones
Las    Local authorities
Lei&Cdp  Lunawa environmental improvement & Community development project
mOps&a  ministry of ports, shipping and a viation
mOW&frC  ministry of Wildlife and forest resources Conservation
mOf    ministry of fisheries 
mOt&L    ministry of t ourism and Lands
mhWL    mean high Water Line
mLWL    mean Low Water Line
mOaLf   ministry of agriculture, Land and forestry
mOe   ministry of environment 
mOfe    ministry of forestry and environment
mOLGhC   ministry of Local Government, housing and Construction
MOTEWA   Ministry of Transport, Environment and Womens’ Affairs
mpCem   master plan for Coastal erosion management
mph    miles per hour
mppa     marine pollution prevention authority
NaQda    National aquaculture development authority
Nara     National aquatic resources research and development agency
NdC   Nationally determined Contribution
Nea     National environment act
NGO   Non-Governmental Organization
Nppd   National physical planning department
Nppp     National physical planning policy

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
4a
NWp     North Western province
NWsdb  National Water supply and drainage board
piU    project  implementation Unit
pra     participatory rural appraisal
reta   regional t echnical assistance for Coastal & marine resource management & poverty 
reduction in south asia
rLfCs    rekawa Lagoon fisheries Cooperative society
rLfmC   rekawa Lagoon fisheries management Committee
rUK    rekawa, Ussangoda, Kalametiya
samp     special area management plan
sareC                 swedish agency for research Cooperation with developing Countries
sida     swedish international development Co-operation agency
sLLrdC   sri Lanka Land reclamation and development Corporation
sLr    sri Lanka rupees
sL tda     sri Lanka t ourism development authority
sm    shoreline management
sma     special management area
smp     shoreline management plan
stp     sustainable t ownship programme
tCp     t urtle Conservation project
t Or    t erms of reference
Uda     Urban development authority
Usaid    United states agency for international development
WHO    World Health Organization
Executive Summary
the Coastal Zone and Coastal resources management plan of 2024-2029 is the fourth generation plan, the earlier 
management plans being the ones presented in 1990, 1997, 2004, and 2018.
in conformity with the legal provisions of the CC&Crm amendment act, No.49 of 2011, the CZ&Crmp  2024 
has been prepared through revision and updating the CZ&Crmp . 
this management plan is presented in six chapters.  the introductory chapter presents the scope for Coastal Zone 
management, the major deviation from CZ&Crmp  of 2018, the bio-physical characteristics of the Coastal Zone, the role 
of the department of Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management, and the Legal mandate, the preparatory 
Process of the plan and Outlines the Content of the Plan.  Each of the following chapters is devoted to a major issue viz. 
shoreline management, Conservation of Coastal ecosystems, Controlling Coastal pollution, special management areas and 
the regulatory mechanism.
Each of the issue chapters are structured to provide an introduction to the issue and its current nature and significance. 
the policies, plans, laws, and institutional arrangements that have been established to address the issues, the management 
objectives, policies and actions proposed, and the guidelines that will be followed in implementing the plan.
primarily, the implementation of the plan will be through the permit process. the guidelines that will be followed 
in the processing of permit applications are detailed out in the plan, as well as the methodology, t Or, the granting of 
permits under the variance procedures.  the variance and exemption procedures cover special circumstances that cannot be 
recommended under the normal permit process.
the plan aims to provide the stakeholders and proposers of development activities in the Coastal Zone, with the 
primary information required in the planning of such development in an environmentally sustainable manner, and to present 
them with the procedures that are legally mandated for the issue of permits by the department of Coast Conservation and 
Coastal resources management.
Even though most of the issues addressed are technically complex and challenging, an effort has been made in this 
plan to explain them in simple terms so that proposers of development activities can appreciate the complex and dynamic 
nature of the Coastal Zone and the rationale for the management process that is proposed in the plan.  the plan is structured 
to achieve this objectiv e.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
5a
CHAPTER 1- INTRODuCTION
 1.1  THE SCOPE FOR THE COASTAL ZONE AND COASTAL RESOuRCE MANAGEMENT
 1.1.1  Context and Setting
  With the increase in population and accelerated economic activities in the coastal region, the requirement of 
integrated management focused on conserving, developing, and sustainable utilization of Sri Lanka’s dynamic and 
resource-rich coastal region has long been recognized. A formal management framework was first adopted by the 
Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management Department (CC&CRMD) through the first generation 
“Coastal Zone management plan (CZmp)” formulated and implemented in 1990 as mandated by Coast Conservation 
and Coastal resource management (CC&Crm) act No.57 of 1981. subsequently, the CZmp  was revised and 
updated in 1997, 2004, and, 2018, as the Coastal Zone and Coastal resource management plan (CC&Crmp). the 
CC&Crmp  of 2018 was designed to ensure sustainable use of the coastal environment and its resources in the long 
term, consistent with the national development goals.  While maintaining continuity, the CC&Crmp  2024 update has 
broadened the scope of the previous plan by incorporating climate change resilience aspects and streamlining with 
the international conventions and protocols. in addition, some sections of the Chapters on regulatory mechanism, 
sma, Coastal pollution, and Coastal habitat Conservation of the CC&Crmp  2018 have been revised to ease the 
implementation and to clear ambiguities. further, based on the implementation experience and the current national 
development requirements, several important guidelines were also introduced and/or revised to ensure sustainable 
management of the coastal resources.
  the reviews and evaluations conducted by the CC&Crmd concerning the impacts and outcomes of the policy 
objectives, strategies, and actions, are framed on the identified issues of the past CZMPs. The implementation of 
past CC&Crmps revealed some drawbacks in achieving desired targets. this was mainly due to several factors 
including, the inadequacy of the legally defined “Coastal Zone”, the absence of legal provisions for proper planning, 
implementation, and institutionalization of the Special Management Areas, the inability to address issues beyond 
the legally defined Coastal Zone and lack of legal authority to protect conservation areas and public access. The 
inadequacies of the legal regime were fulfilled through legislative amendments when the 2018 CC&CRMP was 
formulated.  Despite, remedial measures introduced for effective coastal resource management, implementation 
failures were visible due to several factors including the COVid pandemic that prevailed during 2020-2021 and 
macroeconomic issues confronted by the GOsL. therefore, the outcome of the CC&Crmp  2018 was not up to a 
satisfactory level except for controlling development activities within the coastal zone.
  During the plan implementation period, implementing setback specifications has become a challenge as there is a huge 
demand for coastal land for developments in some areas while the vulnerability level is being changed. therefore, 
it has been identified that the setbacks implemented in the past may be reviewed based on a consolidated effort and 
there should be an unambiguity and clear protocol for setback implementation.
 1.1.2  CZ&CRMP 2024 and Major Deviation from CZMP 2018
  At present, coastal resource management in Sri Lanka, like in many other countries, faces significant challenges, 
especially in the wake of economic crises experienced in the recent past. the crises appeared in the form of 
macroeconomic issues in the country and negatively impacted planned and ongoing resource management initiatives 
due to financial constraints, inability to increase management capacity, and change of policy and priorities. Therefore, 
it does not envisage to consider major deviations from the 2018 CC&Crmp . 
  In view of the entirety of the social, economic, and dynamic environmental condition of the coastal zone, the 2024 
CC&Crmp  attempted to revise and update by incorporating policies, strategies, and actions including new guidelines 
and standards consistent with the current and future needs while excluding some of the incompatible policies, 
strategies and actions.  in this respect, special attention has been placed on recognizing the link between economic 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
6a
crises and climate change repercussions on coastal resources while contributing to climate change mitigation and 
adaptation through the implementation of updated NdCs. 
  in conformity with the legal provisions of the CC&Crm amendment act, No. 49 of 2011, the CC&Crmp  2024 
has been revised and updated by the CC&Crmd. in considering the practicality, and the capacity of the CCCrmd, 
the 2024 plan also focused only on five major areas viz. Shoreline Management, Controlling Coastal Pollution, 
management of Coastal ecosystems, special management areas, and regulatory mechanisms in the form of separate 
chapters similar to the 2018 CC&Crmp . 
  the title of the Chapter on Controlling Coastal Water pollution has been changed to Controlling Coastal pollution 
and broadened by addressing the management of coastal litter and solid waste not limiting to coastal water pollution.  
In addition, the issues related to sites of special significance and public access have been emphasized in Chapter 
6 – regulatory mechanisms. moreover, the updated CC&Crmp  2024 has broadened the scope of the previous 
management plan by incorporating climate change resilience aspects and streamlining with the international 
conventions, protocols, targets, and goals. 
 1.2  THE CHARACTERISTICS OF THE COASTAL ZONE  
 1.2.1  The Bio-physical Characteristics  
  The coastal environment of Sri Lanka is influenced by its location in the northern part of the Indian Ocean, between 
5° 54’ and 9° 52’ North Latitude and 79° 39’ and 81° 53’ east Longitude. the coastal area is positioned in the lowest 
of the three peneplains forming the island and generally consists of flat coastal plains averaging an elevation of 
less than 100 ft (30 m) (CZmp  2018). the lowest peneplain containing the coastal plains extends outward from the 
island and under the sea as the continental shelf for a width of 5-25 miles (about 8-40 km) in most parts and at an 
average depth of 216 ft (about 65 m) below sea level. the continental shelf is narrow around the s outhern part of 
the island but widens considerably towards the N orth where it merges with the shelf around india. sri Lanka has a 
coastline of approximately 1,620 km including the shoreline of bays and inlets, but excluding lagoons.
  The transverse-type coastline in the southwest and northeast is characterized by a series of picturesque sandy bays 
protected on either side by rocky headlands; the s outhwestern coastline also has many complex systems of lakes and 
lagoons with sinuous shapes (CZmp  2018). the bay of t rincomalee on the N orth-eastern coast described as “the 
most perfect natural harbour of the Indian Ocean is of particular significance. The N orthwestern and s outh-eastern 
coastlines exhibit lagoons, sandbars, banks, and spits that sometimes extend over many kilometers. the presence 
around the island of the continental shelf with shallow waters has permitted the formation of coral reefs along the 
coastline amidst well-developed reefs of sandstone and rock. Large deposits of coral are also found inland in the 
coastal region, particularly between ambalangoda and matara, chief among which are the akurala deposits. some 
segments along the s outhwest coastline are retreating due to the natural erosive action of the sea compounded by 
anthropogenic activities such as river sand mining and the destruction of protective coral reefs. in contrast, some 
areas of the N orth-Western and s outheastern coastlines are advancing due to accretion.
  The coastal landscape contains a very dynamic transition zone between the sea, land, and atmosphere, and is formed 
as a result of sea and atmospheric forces on the landmass and the supply of sediments to the coast. sri Lanka has 
103 rivers, most of which radiate from the hill country and flow down to the sea forming estuaries that are important 
features of the coastal landscape and provide vital habitats for species of commercial and subsistence use. these 
rivers transport large amounts of sand, silt, and clay essential for beach nourishment; but they are also carriers of 
pollutants that degrade the quality of coastal waters and habitats. throughout its length, the Coastal Zone contains 
a variety of terrestrial habitats that include sandy beaches, barrier beaches, sand spits and dunes, rocky shores, 
mangroves, and salt marshes. equally important are the coral reefs, lagoons, estuaries, and seagrass beds in the 
coastal waters. These systems help maintain vital physical processes, fulfill ecosystem services and functions, and 
provide land, goods, and services.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
7a
  The northern coastal zone is unique due to the very shallow sea and the presence of islands. Wave conditions are 
very mild on the western side of the Jaffna Peninsula due to the sheltering effect of the islands and the limited depth 
of the sea. the shoreline remains generally stable, and the vast shallow nearshore area has become an ideal ground 
for fishing and aquaculture farming.
 1.2.2  Exposure to Coastal Hazards
  The coastal area of the country has been more exposed to several natural and man-induced coastal hazards in the 
recent past as elaborated below: 
 • Tsunamis
  Among other coastal hazards, tsunamis are one of the major concerns of coastal communities based on the 
experience gained from the 2004 asian t sunami incident. historical records of tsunamis in sri Lanka are very 
vague as they are so rare. Most of them are only folklore stories about quick and forceful flooding due to the 
rising sea. based on the sediment cores retrieved from Karagan Lagoon in the s outheast shoreline of sri Lanka, 
Jackson et al, (2014) have estimated that tsunami recurrence, once in 181 to 517 years to 1045 ± 334 years, 
with a mean recurrence interval of 434 ± 40 years during the Holocene Period. Incidentally, the first recorded 
tsunami to have affected Sri Lanka was on 27th August 1883, due to the volcanic eruption of Krakatoa. Unusually 
high water levels followed by the receding beach were observed. However, the water level fluctuations were 
not severe and there was no significant inundation or records of damage. The second and the most devastating 
tsunami experience was the 26th of december 2004 indian Ocean t sunami where 38,000 people lost their lives 
and the economic loss was estimated to be about 01 billion Us $. it is the worst natural disaster in sri Lanka in 
terms of the lives lost and the extent of destruction. About 5% of the total population of the country was affected, 
and coastal ecosystems and the coastal built infrastructure were devastated which had long-term consequences. 
saltwater intrusion into the drinking water sources and farmlands, damage to wetland habitats, and sand deposits 
on coral reefs are some of the impacts on the physical environment that had severe consequences.
 • Cyclones and Storm Surges
  Only a limited number of atmospheric low-pressure systems generated in the N orthern indian Ocean have 
impacts on sri Lanka, due to its relative proximity to the equator and as it has been placed on the outer limits 
of the cyclone zones of the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. During the past century, there have been 16 
cyclones with landfalls in sri Lanka. in 1964, over 1000 lives were lost due to a cyclone that had a maximum 
wind speed of about 160 km/hr while it is in sri Lankan waters. the surge height was as high as 4 m at some 
places on the northwest coastline according to anecdotal evidence and model studies (murthy et.al. 2004). in 
1978, the cyclone that caused a devastating impact on the whole island had its landfall near batticaloa on the 
east coast. it claimed 915 lives and damaged many households and other infrastructure facilities. the recorded 
maximum wind speed was 145 km/hr. storm surge height was about 1.5 to 2 m in batticaloa. in 1992, another 
cyclonic storm claimed 4 lives and damaged about 29,000 houses, in the southeastern coastline. the cyclone in 
the year 2000 was the strongest tropical cyclone to strike sri Lanka since 1978. it had its landfall in eastern sri 
Lanka, around t rincomalee with a maximum wind speed of 165 km/hr. at least 9 people lost their lives and about 
500,000 became homeless. the cyclone in 2003 did not go across the island but went along a south-to-north path 
parallel to the eastern coastline and had landfall in South India. However, due to the heavy rainfall, floods, and 
landslides about 250 lost their lives (srisangeerthanan s. et al., 2015).
 • Coastal Pollution due to Marine Accidents
  as it is placed on the main east/west shipping route, 200 to 300 ships are passing the sri Lankan waters daily. 
There have been several accidents leading to oil and hazardous spills threatening the coastline during the past 
few decades. MV X-Press Pearl, a container ship carrying 1,486 containers filled with chemicals, including 25 
Metric Tons of nitric acid caught fire and sank in July 2021 close to Colombo Port, devastating parts of west and 
south coastlines. in september 2020 mt  New diamond, carrying over two million barrels of crude oil, caught 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
8a
fire while approaching Sri Lanka’s eastern coastline. Though the cargo tanks were not damaged, an oil slick 
had been sighted as it was towed away from the coastline. in april 2009, chemical tanker mt  Gramba with its 
6,250 tons of sulphuric acid, was towed off about 60 nautical miles off the east coast of Sri Lanka before it sank  
(Kelley, 2009). In 2006, MV Amanat Shah, a ship carrying thousands of tons of timber, sank off the Southwest 
coast, with 176 metric t ons of fuel, polluting roughly a 15 km stretch of shoreline. in 1999, mV meliksha sank 
off the southeast coastline with over 16,000 Metric Tons of chemical fertilizer and 200 Metric Tons of fuel 
(Kulathilaka, 2018).
 1.3  THE ROLE OF THE CC&CRMD IN COASTAL ZONE AND COASTAL RESOuRCE MANAGEMENT
  From the inception of the coastal zone management programme by the CC&CRMD, an attempt has been made to 
balance the conservation objectives with the development needs of the country. the role of the CC&Crmd was 
somewhat different from the traditional notion of conservation performed by other government agencies responsible 
for the conservation of the environment. in considering the dynamic nature of the Coastal Zone, the multiplicity of 
coastal ecosystem services and functions, and benefits derived from the coastal environment, specific attention was 
placed on planned management not confined to written policy objectives but with wider stakeholder consultation. In 
the process of coastal resources management, particular concern is focused on ensuring the provision of basic needs 
for coastal communities without impediments from competing uses and improving the quality of life.
  the planning decisions of the CC&Crmd always pay careful attention to the social cost of the command-and-control 
instrument used in coastal resource management and the unrecognized value of the services of the coastal ecosystems. 
furthermore, a bottom-up collaborative approach is being promoted and adopted in resources management, where 
possible.
CC&CRMD aims to accomplish the Mission
“The sustainable development of coastal resources and the management of coastal
processes to optimize the social, economic, and environmental status of Sri Lanka”
Desired Objectives:
To fulfill the Mission, the four objectives that drive the CC&CRMD are:
 • To improve the status of the coastal environment.
 • To develop and manage the coastline.
 • To improve the living standards of coastal communities and resource users.
 • To promote and facilitate economic development based upon coastal resources.
Results to be achieved
 • The quality of coastal lands and waters improved.
 • Conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity are ensured.
 • Optimal economic potential of coastal lands realized.
 • Development of the Coastal Zone regulated.
 • New economic opportunities created.
 • The quality of life of coastal communities improved.
 • Facilities for recreational use are provided.
 • Scientific/scenic/historical/archaeological and cultural sites conserved.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
9a
 1.3.1  Key Achievements
  the outstanding achievements of the CC&Crmd during the past three decades are given below:
 • Mitigating impacts of coastal erosion up to a substantial level
 • Considerably reducing illegal beach sand mining
 • Complete halt of coral mining
 • Ensuring application of the Environmental Impact Assessment/Initial Environmental Examination (EIA/IEA) 
process for coastal developments
 • Ensuring permit compliance
 • Establishing coastal access
 • Enhancing awareness of coastal issues, including curriculum development for schools
 • Enhancing community awareness and education on coastal resource management
 • Promoting community participation in coastal resource management
 • Introducing Special Management Areas as an effective supplementary Integrated Coastal Management tool
 • Introducing a legal framework for collaborative coastal resource management
 • Coordinating the coastal and marine pollution mitigating efforts.
 1.3.2 External Technical Assistance
  the CC&Crmd has been successful in receiving external technical assistance in the past to counter or mitigate 
the consequences of coastal issues that threaten the long-term stability of the Coastal Zone. Chief among these 
are the Coastal erosion management programme consisting of two daNida  funded projects (1987-1989 and 
1990 -1992), NOrad funded hiCZmp  (1999-2001), Gef funded rekawa Ussangoda Kalametiya bio diversity 
Conservation programme (1994-1998) the Usaid funded Coastal resources management programme - phases i and ii  
(1985 – 1991, 1991-1997), the CCd/GtZ funded Coast    Conservation project (1988-1996), adb-GoN funded 
Coastal resources management project (2001-2007) and Gef/ifad funded participatory Coastal Zone restoration 
and sustainable management project of the eastern province (2009-2016).
 1.4  THE COASTAL ZONE AND COASTAL RESOuRCES MANAGEMENT PLAN 2024
 1.4.1  New Legal Provisions through 2011 CC Act Amendments
  since 01st October 1983 CC&Crm act, No.57 of 1981 came into operation and the Coastal Zone, its resources, and 
the development activities taking place within the Coastal Zone were primarily managed, based on the provisions of 
the above Act. During the course of planning and implementation, it was realized that the vacuum of the provisions of 
the principal act has created negative impacts on the planning and management outputs and outcomes. accordingly, 
an amendment to the principal act was made in 1988 through the Coast Conservation amendment act, No.64. the 
1988 amendments were mainly directed at enhancing regulatory powers on coral and sand mining activities, right 
of public access to the beaches, and demolition of lime kilns located within the Coastal Zone.
  With the expansion of scope of the coastal resource management over time and the increase of coastal issues due to 
both anthropogenic and natural phenomena, the requirement of new legal provisions has been long felt. the need 
for introducing new legal provisions surfaced in the areas of institutionalizing Special Management Area Process, 
legitimacy for community participation in collaborative management, expansion of legally defined Coastal Zone, 
managing human activities outside the Coastal Zone that have a direct impact on the Coastal Zone, managing public 
access and managing open spaces and access.
  in view of the above, the government introduced a second amendment to the principal act through the Coast 
Conservation amendment act, No. 49 of 2011. the concerned areas of the amendments are;
 • Redefining the “Coastal Zone” incorporating riparian land of the water bodies connected to the sea within the 
Coastal Zone.
 • Preparation of a “Coastal Zone and Coastal Resources Management Plan”.

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
10a
 • Provisions for declaration of Affected Areas within or beyond the Coastal Zone.
 • Provision for declaration of Beach Parks and Conservation Areas.
 • Provision for designation and institutionalization of Special Management Areas.
 • Provision for formulating a coastal access plan.
  Figure 1- 1: COASTAL ZONE” THE NEW DEFINITION (ILLuSTRATED)
  (as per the Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management act, No. 57 of 1981 as amended by the act, No. 
49 of 2011)
 1.4.2 The Preparatory Process
  the “Coastal Zone and Coastal resources management plan 2024” has been formulated in conformity with the legal 
provisions of the CC&Crmd act, No. 57 of 1981, amended by Coast Conservation (amendment) act, No. 64 of 
1988, and act, No. 49 of 2011.  the revision of CC&rmp  2018 to enable to preparation of CC&rmp  2024 was 
carried out through a participatory process, field investigations, and primary data and information collected through 
in-house documents and processes. To ensure the reliability of information and effectiveness of the decision-making 
process, an adequate level of feedback was obtained from CC&CRMD staff through one-to-one consultation and 
a group consultation process. the practical issues and ambiguities related to the implementation of management 
policies, strategies, guidelines, and standards were identified and analyzed through extensive in-house working 
sessions conducted through the planning process. moreover, meaningful consultation and informing to the other 
stakeholder agencies and political authority was conducted through a workshop.
 
  The effectiveness of management policies, strategies, standards, and guidelines of each chapter was systematically 
assessed, refined, and formulated based on the implementation experience and careful attention to the prevailing 
context. in addition, feedback also obtained from relevant institution on the management guidelines incorporated 
into this plan.


<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
11 a
 1.4.3  Structure and the Content of the Plan
  the CC&Crmp  2024 is separated into six chapters. Chapters 2-6 are issue-related and deal with key problems being 
addressed through integrated coastal zone and coastal resources management. The chapters on Shoreline Management 
(Chapter 2), Conserving Coastal ecosystems (Chapter 3), Controlling Coastal pollution (Chapter 4), special 
management area (Chapter 5) and regulatory mechanisms (Chapter 6) are formulated with primary and secondary 
information gathered through studies, previous CZm plans (1990, 1997, 2004 and 2018), and other secondary 
sources. each issue-related chapter provides an insight into the status of the coastal resource or problem needing 
management interventions (as relevant); the issues to be addressed; and the existing plans, policies,programmes, 
laws, institutional mechanisms, and enforcement regimes that influence management interventions. Each of the 
issue-related chapters contains management objectives, related policies, and proposed actions for management. 
each objective has been drafted in this plan as a desired state and corresponds to a key coastal problem requiring 
management interventions. the policies indicate the broad courses of action that will be supported and adopted to 
realize each objective. The strategies target key issues and suggest different interventions or plans of action that can 
help achieve a particular objective. The proposed actions identify the specific steps required to pursue a particular 
strategy.
CHAPTER 2 - SHORELINE MANAGEMENT
 2.1  INTRODuCTION
  the  problem of coastal erosion and the resulting need for shoreline management could be identified as the major 
triggering factor leading to the initiation of the Coastal Zone management programme of sri Lanka. the development 
of the programme can be mainly categorized into three distinct periods in terms of its magnitude, related causes, public 
perceptions, management measures adopted and policy responses. 
  in the early stage, the problem of coastal erosion was experienced mainly from the southern part of the island and was 
viewed as a natural phenomenon and handled on an ad-hoc basis. there was no single state agency vested with the 
responsibility for coast protection, and a number of government agencies such as public Works department (pWd), 
Colombo port Commission and Ceylon Government railway (CGr) carried out coast protection work, mainly focused 
on a “Hold the Line Approach” that was confined to construction of hard structures such as revetments, seawalls 
and groynes. however, the problem of erosion aggravated and began to be perceived as major environmental and  
socio-economic issue overtime.
   By the 1970’s, the perception changed as significant cumulative impact in the form of loss of coastal land and properties, 
infrastructure such as roads and railways and damage to coastal ecosystems became obvious. at this stage, coastal 
erosion came to be viewed as a significant socio-economic and environmental issue and developed into a public demand 
for proper management. the required institutional mechanism was setup with the formation of Coast Conservation 
division in 1978 under the ministry of fisheries and aquatic resources. thereafter, a management programme was 
initiated at a moderate level. during this period, institutional capacities were also enhanced by formulating a legal 
framework parallel to the engineering work being implemented. 
  The third distinct period of the programme development could be identified with the formulation of Master Plan for 
Coastal erosion management in 1986 and its subsequent implementation under the daNida  stage 1 and daNida  
stage 2 projects from 1987 and the adb funded Crmp  from 2001-2007. at this phase, planned coast protection was 
carried out based on the best available engineering information, simultaneously with the implementation of other 
management options such as controlling sand and coral mining, conserving coastal ecosystems, curtailing haphazard 
developments and enhancing public awareness and education.
  the above management approach that the Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management department adopted 
in controlling coastal erosion was able to produce positive outcomes. the overall socio-economic and environmental 

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
12a
benefits gained from the management measures exceeded the cost incurred. These benefits are reflected in the   areas 
of protection of land and properties, infrastructure, tourist establishments, fisheries infrastructure as well as in the 
livelihoods and employment generated in the coastal region.
 2.1.1.  Coastal Erosion: Nature of the Problem
  Coastal erosion is a significant and continuing problem in varying degree in Sri Lanka, which results in socio-economic 
and environmental repercussions. erosion occurs due to both natural causes and anthropogenic interventions and 
entails public and private cost. these include the loss of beaches, disruption of recreational and tourism activities, 
damage to public and private properties and infrastructure. it also includes a substantial annual expenditure on coast 
protection, emergency and disaster relief work. according to current information, a sum of sL rs. 1520 million has 
been spent on coastal erosion management during the period 1985 – 1999, sL rs. 3 billion spent during 2001- 2007 
under the adb funded Coastal resources management project. in addition, a further amount of Us$ 1.4 million 
was spent on coastal rehabilitation under the Tsunami Affected Area Rehabilitation Programme (TAARP) and SL 
rs.6.3 billion spent from 2014 to 2022. department has started beach replenishment projects since 2012 with GOsL 
funds. during the last few decades, majority of the investments for coast protection was done in the south, west, 
north western and eastern coastal stretches. in contrast, northern, north eastern and north western coastal segments 
have lesser intervention for coast protection up to now.
  Reduction in supply of sand to the beaches is identified as one of the crucial factors underlying the coastal erosion 
problem. Longshore currents created by the wind and swell waves, mainly transported sand from one location to 
other location along coast. It is a continuous process and erosion is not significant if the coast comprises of beaches 
with sufficient continuous supply of sand. If sufficient sand supply is not available in the beaches to accommodate 
the longshore transport processes if the beach is blocked by coastal structures, then the coastal erosion is inevitable 
in the adjacent beach.
  according to the prevailing information, a high rate of erosion had been reported in mahaoya- Lansigama coastal 
area during the period of 2000 - 2005 and protected. subsequently, erosion continued reporting up to thoduwawa 
covering the straight coastal segment up to maha O ya outlet. the erosion appeared in this segment was successfully 
mitigated by the CC&Crmd.  in spite of that iranawila coast is being mostly threatened due to coastal erosion in 
Puttalam district. Similarly, a significant coastal erosion rate has been reported from the coastal stretch lying north 
of Oluvil harbour in 2010, consequently a severe impact of coastal erosion spread up to sainthamarunthu, covering 
16 km north of the Oluvil harbour losing approximately 80m to 100m width of coastal land strip. the barrier beach 
at Kalido coast in Kalutara had been disturbed due to controlling floods in Kalu ganga in 2017. As a result of flood 
controlling attempt a severe erosion occurred in the northern coastal stretch spreading more than 3km passing the 
Tangarine Beach hotel & Royal Palm beach hotel. Moreover, sand bar is developing in a different orientation with 
keeping the river mouth directly facing to the island, situated close to river mouth. because of this situation, direct 
wave attack and river flow influenced the island, and about100m wide land strip in seaside of the island had been 
washed away. Galle is one of erosion prone areas in the southern coast in which hikkaduwa and habaraduwa are 
the most vulnerable among the erosion identified in south coast. The emergency coastal erosion incidences reported 
from 2014-2022 are given in t able 2.1.
  in terms of coastal accretion, the reported rates are lower than the coastal erosion rate and occurred only in a few 
locations. Notable locations of coastal accretion are at south of Oluvil port happening at the expense of a large-scale 
erosion to the north of port and in Kandakuliya on the northwestern coast. as indicated in t able 2.1, the emergency 
coastal erosion incidences reported during the period of 2014 - 2022 demonstrates that despite the management 
strategies adopted through structural and non-structural solutions, coastal erosion is a continuing problem in the 
country. In addition to coastal erosion, erosion in water bodies is also evident in the coastal zone. Bank erosion is 
reported in maha  Oya, deduru Oya and malwathu Oya.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
13a
Table 2- 1 Reported Locations of Emergency Coastal Erosion 2014- 2022 
 
Erosion Location / Coastal stretch Status of coast Problem identified  
Puttalam 
Kirimundalama, Uchchamunei highly dynamic unstable coastal islands seasonal changes reshaping islands 
frequently 
Norochchole ,ilanthadi  alankuda strait sandy coast, high longshore 
transport rate 
moderate erosion 
Kappaladi highly dynamic sandy beach moderate erosion 
muthupanthiya – Udappu dynamic coast
North of daduru O ya
moderate erosion 
thoduwawa strait coast high sediment transport rate, 
High residential & fisheries dominant 
severe erosion 
iranawila, ambakandawila strait coast high sediment transport rate, 
High residential & fisheries dominant
severe 
barudalpola- Kudamaduwella strait coast high sediment transport rate, 
High residential & fisheries dominant
severe erosion individual case
thalwila- north strait coast high sediment transport rate, 
High residential & fisheries dominant, 
moderate erosion 
Gampaha
Kuttiduwa highly residential, congested & fisheries 
domain beach at the north of Negombo 
Lagoon mouth, seasonal beach observed 
moderate erosion 
aluthkuruwa partly damaged secondary sand stone 
reef along the coast has exposed, and 
sand berm exist at the edge of coastline  
moderate erosion 
porutota Nourished beach singular case seasonal erosion 
mora wala pitipana highly residential, congested & fisheries 
domain beach at the north of Negombo 
Lagoon mouth, seasonal beach observed
moderate erosion 
Uswetakeiyawa parana ambalama disturbed sand berm and exposed 
damaged sand stone along coast 
moderate erosion 
dungalpitiya disturbed sand berm and exposed 
damaged sand stone along coast
moderate erosion 
thaldiyawatta exposed damaged sand stone along 
coast.  no beach 
severe erosion, observe overtopping 
during the monsoon period
Colombo
Lunawa moratuwa protected coast Observe overtopping 
moratuwa – Koralawella protected with a groyne series erosion observed in 2022 but not 
repeated 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
14a
Erosion Location / Coastal stretch Status of coast Problem identified  
Kalutara
North of Kalido beach up to Wadduwa straight coast North of Kalani river 
mouth , highly dynamic & high 
longshore drift 
severe erosion
beruwala-maradana Un planned coastal structures along the 
coast single case,
minor erosion
Galle
ahangama Ahangama Kanda – laterite cliff, 
ahangama t own area -narrow 
beach, discontinues sand stone reef 
as secondary barrier congested with 
buildings 
  
Moderate cliff erosion 
severe coastal erosion
Unawatuna, habaraduwa - K oggala  seasonally change sandy beach, sand 
stone reef as secondary barrier in 
Koggala tourism and fishery dominant 
coast  
severe erosion 
dalawella previously protected stretch, mostly 
laterite cliff be existent 
severe erosion overtopping recorded
dewata highly congested with coastal and 
building structures at the edge of coast 
line. Narrow beach in off monsoon. 
moderate erosion 
Gintota- boossa, ratgama majority of coast previously protected 
with structures coastline is congested 
with buildings narrow beach
moderate erosion
 overtopping reported
hikkaduwa,dodanduwa highly congested with coastal and 
building structures at the edge of coast 
line, sandy beach seasonal erosion 
reported 
severe seasonal erosion
Kahawa sandy protected beach, adjacent to main 
road 
 Over topping recorded 
Matara
Kapparatota, Kalukanda (devil face) Laterite cliff along the coast No beach reported severe cliff erosion
mirissa a bay, sandy beach, 
laterite cliff at the southern end and 
Giragala island
moderate seasonal erosion 
Severe cliff erosion in south side of 
bay & Giragala island.
Kamburugamuwa sandy beach seasonal moderate erosion
madiha part of a narrow sandy beach and a part 
of protected coast line 
single case minor erosion, and 
overtopping recorded 
Kotuwegoda Pertected coastline, sandy beach in off 
season 
single case minor erosion
t alalla sandy beach seasonal variation, mild erosion 
recorded in a year – fairly stable 
dikwella beliwatta sandy beach seasonal variation, mild erosion 
recorded in a year – fairly stable

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
15a
Erosion Location / Coastal stretch Status of coast Problem identified  
madilla sandy bay beach road infrastructure 
along the coast line
severe erosion high net sediment 
loss.
Delete this raw 
Hambantota
Kalamatiya Gurukanda bay, sandy wide beach moderate erosion 
pallikuda sandy wide beach partially protected moderate erosion 
mawella bay sandy beach
 fishery anchorage construction is going 
on
severe erosion 
reshaping the coastline orientation 
Delete this raw
Ampara
Ninthaur to sainthamarunthu about 16km straight coast. severe losing a very wide beach 
permanent erosion
attapalam sandy beach Severe erosion & affect to paddy 
cultivation lands due to salt water 
intrusion 
thirukkovil straight coast about 8km sandy beach. 
lose 15m beach & 5m land 
severe erosion
Visky point – Komari sandy beach severe erosion
arugambay sandy beach 
Tourism and fishery activities dominant 
coast 
highly congested with buildings and 
they are at the edge of coast line.
seasonal variation minor erosion 
Batticaloa
Kaththankudi Sandy beach, domain fisheries activities beach lose 10m , seasonal variation 
minor erosion  
Trincomalee
muththur sandy beach single case, minor erosion
ralkuli – Kinya(  Upparu) sandy beach 12km minor erosion
arippu Delete this raw
Jaffna 
mandathivu Narrow beach, fishery activities 
dominant  
single case, minor erosion reshaping 
he beach
Source: CC&CRM D Annual Reports 2014-2022
According to Table 2.1, the majority of cases are attributed to the effects of human activities.
Cross shore transport by waves in rough sea conditions move sediment offshore. Usually most of the sediments are 
retained within the surf zone and return to the beach by waves during the calm season. Therefore, beach erosion in rough 
period and accretion during calm season is seasonal and could be considered as natural behavior of the beach.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
16a
According to the above phenomena and various anthropogenic effects, only a limited beach area is available to 
accommodate natural erosion - accretion behaviour; hard coastal structures are relatively made speedy solution to cope with 
the erosion and to protect coastal lands and properties. even though, in some instances, such coastal structures may transfer 
the erosion in to the adjacent beaches.
 2.1.2  Past Management Activities and their Effectiveness of Early Initiatives 
  The early interventions carried out prior to 1970’s in controlling coastal erosion could be identified as temporary 
solutions due to their ad hoc nature. the linkages between anthropogenic activities, especially the resources extraction 
practices and consequent coastal erosion has not been recognized. At this stage, the engineering solutions mainly 
focused on a “hold the line” principle. This was due to the loss of flexibility in the coastline associated with urbanization 
of the particular coastal stretch. in this process, the totality and the dynamic nature of the coastal segment as well 
as human activities taking place have not been taken into consideration. in the absence of planned infrastructure 
development in the coastal zone, the erosion incidence occurring during the monsoon period has created negative 
impacts on those infrastructure facilities disrupting social and economic wellbeing of the coastal communities. thus, 
the overall effectiveness of early coast protection interventions could be categorized as being at a lower level, while 
indirect impacts were kept to a moderate level.
 2.1.3  Initiatives carried out in early 1980’s
  the schemes of planned coast protection were commenced with the inception of Coast Conservation Unit under the 
ministry of fisheries and aquatic resources in 1978. subsequently it was upgraded to the status of a Government 
department in January 1984 in recognition of the magnitude of the task it is mandated to perform. the planned coast 
protection measures adopted in this period were mainly restricted to the construction of revetments, groins, and 
gabion walls. in addition, other management measures were implemented to control resources extraction practices 
such as coral and sand mining in the coastal zone. The effectiveness of such planned coast protection measures was 
higher than the coast protection measures carried out prior to 1970’s. however, as a result of hard solution adopted 
to curb coastal erosion, beach scene operations and some of the recreational activities as well as vertical and lateral 
public access along the beaches have been disrupted.
 2.1.4  Initiatives under Master Plan for Coastal Erosion (MPCEM)
  the overall approach adopted in coastal erosion management was turned into a proper path with the formulation of 
the mpCem which advocated long term optimal measures in august 1986 under the technical assistance provided 
by daNida. as a result of comprehensive technical, environmental, economic and social analysis carried out 
by a dedicated team of specialist both from CC&Crmd and the danish hydraulic institute. the problem of 
erosion in Sri Lanka was defined within the constraints of limited information and the Master Plan recommended 
the best possible technical approach towards mitigation and also defined the capital investment required for such 
actions. since 1986, the coastal erosion management measures have been implemented through daNida  stage 1 
(1987-1989), daNida  stage 2 (1990-1992) GtZ - German t echnical Cooperation ((1988-1996), adb and GOsL 
funded Crmp  (2000-2007), mainly based on mpCem. the coast protection measures under the mpCem were 
spatially formulated and categorized based on coastal segments with key areas and singular cases comprising 
structural solutions such as offshore breakwaters with sand nourishment, revetments and groins. Coast protection 
measures have also been carried out through the Crmp  project and annual budget of the CC&Crmd. these include 
the structural measures (hard solutions) implemented in hambantota, matara, Galle, Kalutara, Colombo districts 
and northwards up to puttalum.
  in addition, other management solutions such as application of setback standards for coastal development, enforcement 
of regulatory measures to minimize sand and coral mining and enhancement of public education and awareness 
were also implemented. The effectiveness and outcome of planned coast protection carried out under the MPCEM 
has demonstrated a higher level of success with moderate indirect impacts.
  It is also evident that substantial amount of social, environmental and economic benefits was derived from these 
measures although it has not been quantified as yet. The benefits gained from the past coast protection measures 
are mainly perceptible in the areas of protecting highways and railway lines, public and private dwellings, fisheries 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
17a
infrastructure facilities tourism and recreational facilities. in addition, the need for private investment on coast 
protection has been drastically reduced after implementation of mpCem.
 2.1.5  Beach Replenishment Projects
  beach nourishment is a process by which sediment, usually sand, lost through longshore drift or erosion is replaced 
from another sources. even though, beach replenishment projects are relatively expensive but low environmental 
impact, Sri Lanka practices this method from 1980s. The first beach replenishment project was implemented in 
Negombo by the Danish Funds (DANIDA Project) in 1988. Subsequently CRMP project implemented five beach 
replenishment projects in maha oya Lansigama, Crowisland, moratuwa, Wadduwa and payagala during the period 
of 2002 to 2007. Subsequent to the foreign funded projects, the CC&CRMD carried out five beach replenishment 
projects from 2012 to 2020. the total cost incurred on the beach nourishment is sL rs. 3084 million. the details 
of the sand replenishment projects carried out by the department is given in t able 2.2 
 Table 2- 2 Sand Replenishment Project Carried out by CC&CRMD 2012-2020
Year Coastal Stretch Quantity Used for Nourishment (m3)
2012 Uswetakeiyawa 300,000
2015 Unawatuna 200,000
2016 marawila stage 1 400,000
2017 marawila stage 2 400,000
2020
Kalutara 300,000
angulana 350,000
mount Lavinia 150,000
The above projects were successfully completed to protect beaches, minimize coastal erosion and create beach for 
tourism, fisheries and infrastructure. In spite of the relatively high cost on the basis of cost per year of protection, beach 
replenishment is highly admired by many beach users.
 2.2 ISSuES, THREATS AND CHALLENGES
 2.2.1 Natural Processes and Events contributing to Coastal Erosion
  many segments of the coastline are subject to continuing retreat and accretion; some changes occurred seasonally 
while others are more permanent. the natural processes contributing to coastal erosion are as follows:
 •  Natural variations in the sand supply to the coast from some rivers
 • Loss of sand due to breaching and wash-over of a sand berm
 • Offshore sand loss during extreme wave and storm surge conditions 
 • Loss of sand due to presence of canyons
 • Deposition of sand at sand spits and dunes 
 • Loss of coastal vegetation
 • Tsunami, cyclones and other episodic events
 • Loss of material from “nodal areas”
 • Sea level rise (long term contribution)
  among the other factors, the most important factor contributing to coastal erosion in sri Lanka is the imbalance of 
the littoral sediment budget. t he littoral transport generates mainly due to action of monsoon generated short crested 

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
18a
wind waves and long crested swell waves on the nearshore sediment. thus, coastal erosion through the actions of 
waves, currents and winds results in the loss of sediment in some places. there is a considerable variation in the 
supply of sediment to the beach and loss of sand from the beaches due to the longshore transport capacity. the 
erosion taking place in the southwest coast is mainly due to the high capacity of littoral drift than the supply from 
the rivers to the beaches. the erosion reported from the coastal stretch located north of maha Oya is compounded by 
the straightness of the coastline and is particularly severe because of a high deficit in the littoral budget due to sand 
mining in the Maha Oya and other anthropogenic effects. As per the prevailing information, sand supply along the 
south coast is also low, but the coastline is relatively stable due to the bay and headland features which offer some 
sheltering effect. Presently the human intervention make unstable and reshaping the coast. 
  the global sea level is expected to rise with 30- 40 cm in the 21st century according to the ipCC mid estimates based 
on the linear melting of the ice sheets of Greenland and antarctica due to increased emission level of greenhouse. 
Therefore, the potential increase of coastal erosion due to sea level rise is not insignificant. However, it is quite 
complicated to quantify the level of erosion when it comes to coastlines in the vicinity of inlets, such as river mouths, 
lagoons and estuaries. These places are affected by other factors, such as inundation with heavy rainfall, basin filling 
impacts and impacts due to salt water intrusion etc. those impacts along the water bodies will be accelerated in the 
future due to the climate change and the sea level rise.
  One of the causes of natural coastal erosion is the increase in sediment transport rate in the direction of the net 
transport of the shoreline. This can be due to changes in the wave conditions at certain areas, different shape of the 
coastline, or special bathymetric conditions. the loss of inland sand due to breaching and over-washing of barrier 
islands and wind transport losses to offshore during extreme wave and storm surge conditions. The high waves 
cause the sand bars to move seawards and the high storm surges also cause an offshore movement of sand due to 
non-equilibrium in the profile during the high surge.
  the loss of sand to an accumulative beach occurs at the tip of a sand spit and into deep water at the leeward side 
of the tip of sand spit at the termination point of a littoral cell. sand lost in this way causes accumulative shore and 
shoal features in the deposition areas, but the upstream coastline has a sand deficit. 
  another cause of natural coastal erosion is oblique wave approach to the coastline. along such coastlines, there is 
a tendency for natural formation of spits parallel to the coast. they accumulate sand and shift the supply of sand to 
offshore. In that case, deficiency of sand supply to downstream coast results taking available sand in downstream 
to the littoral drift.
 2.2.2 Impacts of 2004 Tsunami on Coast Protection and Coastal Erosion
  the asian t sunami struck sri Lanka’s coastal region as a leading elevation wave on 26th december 2004 two hours 
after the indonesian earthquake. One to three waves were reported depending upon the location with a height of 1 m to 
15 m. t he highest wave height occurred in Koddiyar with 15 m in ampara district and 12 m each at Kurukulamadam 
and hambantota t own. a  10 m height occurred at mankerni, pottuvil, punnaikudah (batticaloa district) Kirinda 
and Ratupasgodella, while Kahandamodera and Peraliya recorded 8 m respectively. Tsunami waves first arrived on 
the eastern coast and to the other parts of Sri Lanka affecting 12 out of 14 coastal administrative districts. Tsunami 
waves inundated the southwestern part with varying intensity depending upon topography and coastal defense. the 
sea water inundation varied considerably from few meters to 3.5 km inland. the maximum inundation was recorded 
at 2 km in batticaloa and Kuchchaveli in t rincomalee. in peraliya, inundation was reported about 2 km inland. On 
the southern coast, the inundation limit was up to about 3.5 km in the lagoon system. (survey of the december 26th 
Indian Ocean Tsunami in Sri Lanka, James Goff, International Tsunami Survey Team -TST).
  The impacts of the tsunami were severe on the coastal zone where there had been some degree of human induced 
environmental damage such as removal of sand dunes, coral reefs and coastal vegetation. as per the damage 
assessment carried out by Coastal resources management project (Crmp) after the tsunami, it was revealed that a 
number of coast protection structures were damaged in the south west coast while some coastal stretches and sand 
spits have been severely eroded.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
19a
 2.2.3 Anthropogenic Activities that Accelerate Erosion
  the coastal engineering investigations carried out in sri Lanka in the past clearly revealed   the correlation between 
accelerating coastal erosion and the human activities taking place within and outside the coastal zone. This was 
further confirmed through socio- economic surveys and studies conducted with respect to human activities such 
as sea coral mining, sand mining from the beaches and the rivers and construction of dams across the water ways 
and construction of coastal structures. a  summary of human activities and their impacts which contribute to coastal 
erosion are presented in Table 2-3.
Table 2- 3 Human Activities with an Impact on Coastal Stability in Sri Lanka
Activity Current 
Status
Result Effect on Coast Example of Sites  
Affected
beach sand 
mining
moderate reduction of beach 
sand volume available 
for littoral processes
induces coast 
erosion
 panadura, ahangama , 
habaraduwa, Lunawa 
angulana 
river sand 
mining
high reduction of river 
sand supply to the 
beaches salt intrusion 
to river upstream
increases coastal 
and river bank 
erosion
 Kelani, Nilwala, maha 
Oya, Kalu Ganga,
 Gin ganga
Collecting 
coral from 
beaches and 
shore face
Low
reduction of volume 
of beach material, 
reduction of corals
to reformation and 
developments of 
natural 
coral reefs
reduce materials to 
the beaches, induces 
coastal erosion
 rekawa, ahangama, 
habaraduwa, 
hikkaduwa 
damaging, 
coral, limestone 
and sandstone 
reefs
Low
damages to the 
natural barriers, 
creation of gaps in 
reefs
increase wave 
energy on beaches 
and increase coast 
erosion,
 seenigama, 
rekawa
 Uswetakeiyawa , 
pitipana  
Construction of 
buildings and 
other structures 
too close to the
beach and on 
sand dunes
high
reduction of coastal 
stability
Cause damages 
to the buildings 
and structures, 
accelerate coastal 
and dune erosion
 dewata, polhena 
 Unawatuna hikkaduwa 
Uswetakeiyawa
maintenance 
dredging in 
harbour
basins and 
access channels
high
removal of sand from 
the littoral budget
induce coastal 
erosion on adjacent 
beaches 
 Colombo port, fishery 
harbors and anchorages
removal and 
loss of coastal 
vegetation
moderate
reduction of coastal 
stability, creation of 
exposed areas for 
wind and waves
induce dune and 
coastal erosion
 erosion to be expected 
along all sedimentary 
shores
Construction of 
unplanned or 
poorly planned 
rigid coastal 
structures
high
reduction of coastal 
stability in adjacent 
coast
induce of erosion 
or huge accretion in 
adjacent coast
 Galle, matara 
palliyawatta, Negombo, 
Oluvil harbour 

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
20a
Activity Current 
Status
Result Effect on Coast Example of Sites  
Affected
Construction of 
river flow
regulating 
structures
high
reduction of 
sediment supply to 
the beach
Coastal erosion, 
loss of sand to 
coast, sand bar 
formation inside 
river 
 maha Oya, deduru 
Oya, Nilwala ganga
breaching 
sandbars at 
river and lagoon 
outlets
high reshaping the outlet severe erosion on 
adjacent coasts and 
river banks, sand 
formation inside 
lagoon, water 
stagnant inside 
lagoon due to 
different orientation 
of sand bar 
Kalutara, Ginthota
Source: CC&CRMD 2023
The impacts of above listed human activities contributed significantly to coastal erosion but in varying degrees 
depending on the effectiveness of management measures adopted by the CC&CRMD.
mostly rigid coastal structures such as groynes, detached breakwaters, sea walls, port and inlet jetties at tidal inlets 
and river mouths, revetments that are interference with the littoral transport and also contribute to coastal erosion. t he presence 
of such structure has a series of effects viz:
 • Trapping of the sand on the upstream side of the structure takes sand out of the sediment budget, thus causing shore 
erosion along adjacent shorelines, mainly on the lee side.
 • Changes in the wave reflection and diffraction patterns, hence changes in the wave energy distribution and sediment 
transport patterns.
 • Possible changes of movement of the existing coastal current pattern and tidal   movement.
 • Loss of sand to offshore.
 • Trapping of sand in basins, entrance channels and in adjacent coast of outer ports/harbours.
 2.2.4  Development Activities that cause Negative Impacts on the Stability of the Coast
  besides the hard maritime structures, other development activities mainly the buildings and other constructions 
related to tourism, commercial and dwelling purposes located too close to the beach front restricts coastal process 
and could accelerate beach erosion. in addition, irrigation schemes, gates, dams and tanks constructed in the river 
upstream areas negatively affect the stability of the coast by reducing sand supply to the coast. This situation was 
evident in the absence of development regulatory mechanisms and environmental impact assessment procedures in 
the past. prior to implementation of Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management act and the National 
environmental act, there were no legal and institutional mechanisms to direct such developments to avoid negative 
impacts on the stability of coast.
 
	 	Sand Mining in Rivers
  Removal of sand from the river system directly reduces the supply of sediments to the beaches and is widely identified 
as the major cause of coastal erosion in sri Lanka. the national sand requirement has continuously increased parallel 

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
21a
to the growth of the construction industry since late 1970’s and reached into a significant level with the economic 
thrust placed after culmination of the conflict situation in the northern and the eastern parts of the country in 2009. 
in 2018, sand requirement for the entire country has been estimated at approximately 21million cubic meters per 
year in which major portion is fulfilled from river sand. 
  despite many controlling measures, sand mining in river is being taken place increasing at high level in the North 
Western, Western, and the southern provinces where much of the construction activity and major coastal erosion 
problems are concentrated. as per the prevailing information more than 35 of the 103 rivers are subject to illegal 
river sand mining and that more than 50% of all sand used in the construction sector is sourced from unlawful 
operations ( Abeyratne H.S.2023 )
  however, with the drastic increase of demand and regulatory restrictions imposed on river sand mining, the price of 
the river sand has been significantly increased while attention on alternative sources such as offshore and land-based 
deposits also increased. at present, mahaweli Ganga (manampitiya and mahiyangana) is the key extracted source 
of river sand; in addition to that Kelani Ganga, deduru Oya, maha Oya, Kalu Ganga, and Nilwala Ganga are also 
considered as major sources.
  the overall sand mining in rivers at unprecedented rates to meet the current requirement of the construction industry 
evidently demonstrates the unsustainable status and inevitability in degrading river beds as well as decrease of sand 
supply to the beaches. 
  the demand for sand has increased with the growth of the construction industry in the country, especially after the 
end of the conflict that prevailed in the north and the east in 2009.  Based on the annual usage of cement, the annual 
sand consumption has been estimated and shown in t able 2-4 while the estimated volume of sand mined from the 
rivers, based on the permits issued by the Gsmb is shown in t able 2-5. Nevertheless, the quantity of sand mined 
illegally from river system is not reflected from these figures. 
  it should also be noted that the river sand mining is unsustainable and it is a long-standing socio-economic problem. 
the impacts of river sand mining are irreversible in the short and medium term. thus, the reactive policy responses 
will not serve to re-establish the sand supply to the coast from several effected rivers in the short or medium term. 
in view of the current situation, the policy responses should focus on application of multi management approach 
that constitute with; (a) regulating river sand mining more effectively to avoid worsening of the current situation and 
allowing replenishment of the rivers subject to heavy mining in the past (b) curtailing over exploitation in all river 
system (c) initiating a further national sand study to explore and promote alternatives and to determine sustainable 
yields more accurately.
  the demand for sand has increased with the growth of the construction industry in the country, especially after the 
end of the conflict that prevailed in the north and the east in 2009.  Based on the annual usage of cement, the annual 
sand consumption has been estimated and shown in t able 2-4. however, the construction activities have drastically 
decreased from 2020 due to economic and pandemic situation in the country. 
	 	Sand Mining on the Beaches and Dunes
  Corresponding to the increased demand and the higher prices, sand mining from the beaches and dunes also increased 
in the recent past, irrespective of suitability or quality standards required for the construction industry. in contrast to 
the volume of river sand mining in the country, beach sand mining is not significant. Although the quantity of sand 
extracted annually from the beaches and dunes is less, beach sand mining is much more damaging to the stability 
of the coast than river sand mining since it has instantaneous impacts on the deficit of the littoral sand budget. 
however, over the years sand mining from the beaches has been drastically reduced due to the management measures 
adopted by the CC&Crmd through enforcement of regulations, enhancement of public education, and awareness 
and coordination with other agencies. in considering the small quantities of beach sand requirement for the coastal 
communities for religious and other purposes, permission is being granted by the department for removal of sand but 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
22a
not exceeding 2 cubes from pre-identified locations.  However, there are a few locations such as Kirinda, Peraliya, 
Hikkaduwa, Chilaw and Panadura fishery harbors where the beach sand has been removed as there is an apparent 
excess of sand. sand has been accumulating in those locations as the coastal/harbor structures have prevented the 
littoral drift and resulted in deposition/filling in harbor basins. This deprives the downstream area along the beaches 
maintaining the sediment budget and causing coastal erosion. moreover, the removal of deposited sand from the 
system has negatively impacted to the sand budget and marginal attention has been paid to this problem by some of 
the authorities as well as the coastal communities. However, those permissions for sand mining in fishery habours 
have been temporary suspended due to severe erosion identified in adjacent beaches.
 
  In spite of the management measures effectively implemented by the CC&CRMD, sand removal from the dune 
systems has been quite high in the northwestern, eastern and the northern provinces in the past. The unauthorized 
removal of sand from the dune system in the eastern and the northern coastal segments could not be regulated 
due to conflict situation that prevailed in those areas in the past and some of the valuable dune systems have been 
significantly damaged. In considering the impacts, conserving the sand dunes was further strengthened through 
previous CZmps. accordingly, an attempt was made to conserve the s everely affected dunes. 
Table 2- 4 Annual Sand Consumption 2012-2021
Year 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021(1)
Cement 
Consumption
(2) (x 000) mt
5,880 6,033 6,247 6,379 7,994 8,495 7,955 8,121 7,189 7,128
sand 
Consumption
(3) (x 000) m 3
21,168 21,719 22,489 22,964 28,778 30,582 26,638 29,236 25,880 25,661
(1) provisional, (2) production+imports, (3) based on the formula: 3.6 m 3 of sand = 1 t on of Cement, byrne G. et al. 
2002, alternative for river sand, unpublished report Crmp , 2002 (source: National Output, expenditure and income, 
Central bank of sri Lanka, 2022)
Table 2- 5 Annual volume of river sand mining (estimated based on the Permits issued by the GSMB)
Year Extraction (Million  m3)
2015          0.74 
2016          0.88 
2017          0.77 
2018          0.80 
2019          0.61 
2020          1.30 
2021          1.28 
2022          0.59 
Apart from the rivers, beaches and dunes, sand large quantity of sand extracted from offshore areas (western coast) 
for the purpose of sea reclamation projects and construction purposes as depicted in t able 2-6. moreover, it is envisage 
to extract large quantity of offshore sand for the planned Colombo North Port Development Project and the Marine city 
development project. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
23a
Table 2- 6 Quantity of Offshore Sand Pumping for the Requirement of Sea Reclamation and   Construction Industry 
of Sri Lanka from 1994-2022
Period Volume/Quantity (million m 3)
1994-1995 4.55
2005-2007 3
2011-2013 3.8
2018-2019 4
approx. 2016 40 (for Port City Development) ǂ
2022- on going 14.5 (for Colombo West International Terminal) ǂ
ǂ - Estimations
Source: Sri Lanka Land Reclamation and Development Corporation (SLLRDC) records)
	 	Transformation of Direct Human Impact on Coral  
  Coral is the principal source of lime for the construction industry in sri Lanka until recently and supplied approximately 
90% of the lime requirement. sea coral mining from the nearshore areas were reported in the west and the south 
coast and some parts of the eastern coastal areas causing a significant level of coastal erosion. Although coral has 
been mined for almost four hundred years in certain parts of the coastline, it was confined to a low level and only 
from the relic reefs behind beaches. the growth of the construction industry since late 1970’s has led to accelerated 
sea coral mining which involves the destruction of living reefs that act as barriers against wave action. as per the 
available records, it was revealed that inland and sea coral extraction from the west and south coast has increased 
from 18,000 tons in 1984 to 30,500 tons in 1998. With the enforcement of stringent regulatory action under the Coast 
Conservation amendment act No. 84 of 1988 banning operating lime kilns, possession, processing and transporting 
corals within the coastal zone, the amount of sea coral mining has declined from 7,660 tons in 1984 to 2,200 tons 
in 1994. in this context, coral mining and related socio-economic and environmental impacts were frequent focal 
themes of discussion in the subject of integrated Coastal resources management (iCrm) in sri Lanka. thus, to 
control coral mining, a comprehensive management strategy was adopted by the CC&Crmd in 1978, comprising 
regulations, introducing and promoting substitutes for coral-based lime, enhancing public education and awareness, 
and providing alternative employment to people engaged in coral mining. as result of these management measures, 
the level of sea coral mining was maintained at a lower level up to 2004. however, with the tsunami disaster that 
struck sri Lanka’s coastal region in 2004, sea coral mining has been drastically reduced or almost halted with the 
self-realization of its ecological and environmental importance of reefs among the coastal communities, especially 
in the southern province. No significant level of coral mining is reported in the recent past (Table 2-7).
Table 2- 7 Reflection from the Past - Coral mined in the Coastal Zone of Sri Lanka’s Western and Southern   Coastal 
Sector (1992-2022)
Type of 
coral
Amount 
1984
(tons)
% of        
total
Amount
1992
(tons)
% of   
total
Amount 
1998
(tons)
% of
 total
Amount
 2013-2022
(tons)
inland coral 10,400 58 15,800 80 28,300 93 Not reported
sea coral 7,660 42 4,020 20 2,200 7 Not reported
t otal 18,060 100 19,820 100 30,500 100 Not reported
Source; CC&CRMD 2023

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
24a
 2.2.5 Future Impacts of Climate Change
  The potential climate change effects, especially global warming resulting in sea temperatures and sea level rise, 
increased frequency and magnitude of tropical storms and other extreme events will have negative impacts on coastal 
processes, ecosystems and human wellbeing. although the global mean sea level rise is an important aspect, the 
relative sea level rise is the main factor determining impacts on the coast. according to the central estimate predicted 
by the international panel of Climate Change (ipCC), the global sea level may rise 0.2 cm and 0.5 cm by the years 
2010 and 2050 respectively. in consistency with the possible rise of temperature and relative sea level, it is expected 
to cause shoreline retreat, inundation of low-lying areas and vulnerable areas, increase salt water intrusion into the 
inland water bodies, geomorphological changes in sediment transport and damage to the coastal habitats such as 
coral reefs. In addition, sea level rise will create negative impacts on fisheries, tourism and other beach users and 
coast protection and other structures that have not been designed to withstand such effects.
  according to the Climate Change Vulnerability assessment conducted by the ministry of environment and renewable 
energy in 2011, sea level rise exposure in important   sectors such as urban development, human settlement, economic 
infrastructure, water, agriculture and forestry, biodiversity and ecosystem services, livestock have been investigated 
and highly vulnerable areas have been identified. Figure 2.1 depicts the sea level rise exposure map. Based on the 
ipCC predictions, inundated areas due to predicted sea level rise at the end of 25, 50, 75 and 100 years including 
the areas covered presently as water bodies are given in t able 2-8
Table 2- 8 Projected Inundated Area in each district including/excluding Water Bodies: 
District
Total Inundated Area (ha) Including water 
bodies
Additional Inundated Area (ha) Excluding water 
bodies
25 year 50 year 75 year
100
year 25 year 50 year 75 years
100
year
Colombo 959 1133 1327 1534 201 375 569 776
Gampaha 3638 4154 4631 5073 459 976 1452 1894
puttalam 11334 12583 13716 14809 1113 2362 3494 4587
mannar 8024 8262 8518 8758 248 486 741 981
Jaffna 10321 11164 12014 12891 864 1706 2557 3434
mulaitivu 912 1004 1092 1180 88 180 268 355
t rincomalee 2315 2529 2791 3033 252 467 729 971
batticaloa 2325 2443 2568 2702 130 247 372 507
ampara 1880 2175 2479 2762 293 588 892 1175
hambantota 4265 5553 6516 7322 885 2173 3136 3942
matara 1277 1634 1994 2401 384 741 1101 1508
Galle 5622 6462 7249 8014 776 1617 2403 3169
Kalutara 1956 2370 2790 3203 417 830 1251 1664
Source: Shoreline Status Report-2014

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
25a
Figure 2- 1: Sea Level Rise Exposure Map of Sri Lanka
  
Sources: Climate Change vulnerability data Book 2011

<!-- page 26 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
26a
in view of the magnitude of the potential issues related to sea level rise, an overall accepted response is the proper 
adaptation. thus, it is important to pay careful attention on the following adaptation technologies:
 1. Imposition of adequate buffer areas (set-backs) for coastal development.
 2. formulation of design criteria for coastal structures with due consideration of relative sea level rise.
 3. Sand dune rehabilitation/stabilization as a soft defense mechanism.
 4. restoration of coral reefs as a soft defense mechanism.
 5. beach nourishment.
in addition to the sea level rise, other natural phenomenon related to climate change repercussion which are important 
for coastal erosion management are cyclones and strong storms which frequently experienced in the bay of bengal.
 
 2.2.6 Coastal Erosion Trends and Shoreline Management Measures Adopted
  according to a coastal erosion trend analysis carried out by Abeykoon L.C.K et al. (2021) covering the 2005-2019 
period focusing on the Western and North-western provinces revealed that average coastal erosion rates of –1.21±0.04 
m yr-1 in Kalutara, – 0.54±0.63 m yr-1 in Colombo, and –0.7±0.58 m yr-1 in Gampaha district respectively. puttalam 
district showed a 0.26±0.07 m yr-1 average accretion rate, while the highest accretion rate (0.95 ± 0.58 m yr-1) was 
evident in the coastal region of Wilpattu National park, an area that has few anthropogenic interventions. 
  The study results also found that the application of hard structures to mitigate the effect of coastal erosion has 
increased within the past 15 years. accordingly, at the end of 2019, the country mainly used revetments up to 23,554 
m in length (occupying 9.05% of the total study area), consisting of 18,960 m in the Western province (7.29%) and 
4,594 m in the North-Western province (1.76%). the Western province has applied more hard structures at a higher 
rate than the North-Western province due to mega-development projects.
  according to the recent investigation records of the CC&Crmd, it was revealed that the coastal erosion at Kalutara 
coastal stretch adjacent to the river outlet demonstrate a notable leap with approximately 30m from 2017 to 2023.
  the district wise coastal erosion incidence reported and the length of shoreline protected by the CC&Crmd from 
2000 to 2022, is illustrated in Table 2-10
 
Table 2- 9 Shoreline Management Measures Implemented from 2008 to 2022
District Protected length from 2008 to 2022 in km 
puttalam 4.1
Gampaha 1.05
Colombo 1.65
Kalutara 3.16
Galle 5.24
matara 3.81
hambantota 1.47
ampara 0.85
batticaloa 0.1
t rincomalee 1.37
mulativu 0
Kilinochchi 0
Jaffna 0.75
mannar 0
Source: CC&CRMD 2023

<!-- page 27 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
27a
 2.2.7 Data and Information on Coastal Process/Characteristics 
  the requirement of reliable and updated information on coastal processes as well as socio-economic, ecological 
and environmental factors related to coastal erosion is a prime necessity for coastal erosion management. although, 
the required data and information pertaining to coastal erosion management has been collected through coastal 
investigations and other research studies for the west, south-west, south and northwest coastal segments during the 
past few decades, little or no data and information was available for the northern and the eastern provinces and the 
islands due to the conflict that prevailed in the region over three decades until 2009. Since the northern and eastern 
coastal provinces are also highly vulnerable to climate change repercussions as well as episodic extreme natural 
events such as cyclones, storms, and tsunami incidents, the availability of reliable data and information is a vital 
requirement for coastal erosion management. moreover, for the attempts being made for economic development in 
the northern and the eastern provinces by the GO sL, the availability of data and information on coastal processes, and 
parameters such as wave characteristics, currents, tides, and sediment transportation patterns are vital to determine 
the environmental impacts. as a part of its attempts to obtain data and information on coastal process/characteristics 
for the northern and eastern coastal region, modeling studies on longshore sediment transport along the coast in 
t rincomalee and batticaloa districts have been conducted by the CCCrmd in 2018. in addition, the mapping of 
beach access in baticaloa district was carried out in 2021 and the mapping of beach access in mannar, Kilinochchi, 
Jaffna, and Mulathivu Districts was initiated in 2022 by the CC&CRMD. Modeling studies on longshore sediment 
transport at 04 locations in the northern region- pesalai, Gurunagar, point pedro, and mullaitivu have also been 
carried out by the adb for the Northern province sustainable fisheries development project, in 2016.
  Though the field measurements are limited, there are some global scale wave, wind, and current simulation and 
forecasting programs and longtime shoreline change estimations which may be used until a proper data acquisition 
program is in place. However, this information should be compiled into a customized database and verified so that 
they can be directly used as decision-making tools by the CC&Crmd.
 2.2.8 Accommodating New Development Activities within the Coastal Region
  With the end of the conflict that prevailed in the country in 2009, the overall economic development has grown to 
shift the status from low low-income earning country to a middle-income country. However, a significant percentage 
of the gains made were lost due to the pandemic experienced and the economic crisis, since 2020. however, the 
economy is expected to recover in the near future. the GOsL’s long-term plan of developing tourism, maritime, 
and energy sectors is mainly concentrated in the coastal region. in addition, mega projects such as the Colombo 
port expansion project (Cpep) and port City development project are located in the urban coastal waterfront. 
Several tourism development zones/locations are also planned along the coast. These include the proposed tourism 
development zone in Kuchchaweli in the Trincomalee District and the locations identified by the master plan on 
tourism development from Negombo to mirissa in the western and southern provinces. in addition, many locations 
along the coast and in the islands in coastal areas suitable for different types of tourism developments have also 
been identified by a study carried out by the CC&CRMD in 2022. Therefore, minimizing the vulnerability of the 
coastal region to episodic and chronic coastal hazards is a prime requirement for attracting and accommodating new 
development interventions related to the above economic sectors while ensuring the sustainability of the coastal 
resources. t o achieve the desired objectives of the economic development thrust placed on the coastal region, 
scientific and engineering knowledge of the coastal resources, their behavior, and functions should be considered 
with the social aspects of the coastal region, for a proper development decision-making process.
 2.3 POLICIES, PLANS, LAWS AND INSTITuTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
 2.3.1 Plans and Policies
  the policies on coastal erosion management are mainly governed by the Coast Conservation and Coastal resource 
management act, No. 57 of 1981 and its amendment act, No. 64 of 1988 and No. 49 of 2011 as they provide legal 
provisions for regulating activities in the coastal zone. In view of the requirement of controlling some influencing 
activities even outside the coastal zone, the legal regime was strengthened through amendment Act, No. 49 of 2011. 

<!-- page 28 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
28a
In addition, the first national Coastal Zone Management Plans of 1990, Revised CZM Plans of 1997, 2004, and 
2018, “Coastal 2000”; a  resources management strategy for sri Lanka’s Coastal region also addressed the issue 
of coastal erosion. based on the policy guidelines provided through CZm plans and “Coastal 2000”, an overall 
coastal erosion management strategy was implemented in compliance with the master plan for Coastal erosion 
management (mpCem) prepared in 1986.
  i n accordance with the legal and institutional provisions, the responsibility and discretion for control of coastal erosion 
lie with the Director General of the CC&CRMD. Thus, to implement coastal stabilization schemes within the coastal 
zone, the requirement of an Environmental Impact Assessment has been waived. As a policy, so far priority has been 
given to the protection of public infrastructure (roads, railway lines, bridges, etc.), followed by public utilities and 
buildings, dwelling units, state land, and private/commercial buildings respectively, for CC&Crmd funded coast 
protection schemes. the CC&Crmd permits private and public agencies to implement coast protection schemes if 
they are consistent with the guidelines and criteria spelled out in the mpCem. management actions and regulatory 
mechanisms are implemented at the national level. in accordance with the CC&Crm act, an eia  may be required 
for the development activities including coast protection carried out within the coastal zone by both private and 
state agencies, at the discretion of the director General of the CC&Crmd. development activities that go beyond 
the coastal zone require adherence to the EIA procedure of the National Environmental Act, No. 47 of 1980 and 
its amendment act, No. 56 of 1988, but special concerns of the CC&Crmd will also be taken into consideration. 
there are many regulatory mechanisms and institutions that are important in controlling activities such as mining, 
reclamation, and diversions of waterways directly or indirectly create impacts on the stability of the coast.
 2.3.2  Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC) Implementation Plan (2021-2030)
  Climate change poses a serious threat to the health of the coastal ecosystem, and economic growth and minimizes 
development gains.  sri Lanka ranks 100th in terms of readiness for climate change adaptation and 60th in terms 
of climate change vulnerability (NdC implementation plan 2021-2030). the Coastal and marine sector has been 
identified as one of the most crucial sectors impacted by these changes among nine sectors. As a result, these nine 
sectors including the coastal and marine sector have been recognized in NDCs to prioritize adaptation measures 
by related governmental agencies, specialists, and other stakeholders in each vulnerable sector. accordingly, the 
following main activities as depicted in Table 2-11, have been identified for implementation during 2021-2030 by 
the CC&Crmd and other relevant agencies under the NdC implementation plan (2021-2030) for Coastal and 
marine sector.
Table 2- 10:  NDCs of Coastal and Marine Sector
•	 establish an accurate sea level rise forecasting system for sri Lanka
•	 prepare updated vulnerability and risk maps for the coastal belt of sri Lanka
•	 Adopt optimal shoreline management works/measures covering affected length of shoreline using a combination 
of hard and soft solutions to prevent coastal erosion in the areas most vulnerable to sLr
•	 identify and declare coastal and marine natural areas of high priority for building resilience for climate change 
impacts
Source: Ministry of Environment, NDC Implementation Plan 2021-2030, (2023)
 2.3.3  Future Approaches and Trends in Coastal Erosion Management Practices
  Coastal erosion and accretion are natural processes. however, this natural phenomenon may become a problem 
when disturbed by human activities and natural disasters or changes. in addition, the spreading of poverty, coupled 
with the growing population in the coastal region and the increasing economic growth has created major challenges 
in managing coastal erosion along the coast, in the future. thus, careful attention has to be paid to the following in 
managing coastal erosion in the country.

<!-- page 29 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
29a
 1. maintaining a basal shoreline position at the most important areas where the shoreline retreat cannot be allowed. 
through a comprehensive study, the shoreline sections where maintaining a basal shoreline position is required 
should be identified. Seasonal shoreline variation may be allowed but continuous retreat should be managed through 
sand nourishment or by other means. 
 2. Prevailing information revealed that the existing coast protection measures provide significant protection.
 3. Scientific findings revealed that presence of vegetation in coastal areas will improve slope stability, consolidate 
sediment and diminish the amount of wave energy moving onshore and protecting the shoreline from erosion.
 4. increased interest in soft options for coast protection is becoming predominant and is in line with the advanced 
knowledge on coastal processes.
 5. A combination of soft and hard solutions is sometimes necessary to improve the efficiency of the option and to 
provide environmentally and economically acceptable coast protection measures.
 6. Requirement of adopting climate compatible technologies and designs for fisheries, tourism and other economic 
activities located in the coastal zone.
 7. as per the legal provisions introduced through Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management amendment 
Act, No. 49 of 2011, the declaration of affected areas and conservation areas should be implemented as appropriate, 
for controlling coastal erosion.
 8. Use of new technologies (such as Geo bags) is sometimes necessary to improve the efficiency of the option and to 
provide environmentally and economically acceptable coast protection measures.
 9. Pay due attention on fulfilling commitment of NDCs under Coastal and Marine Sector as specified in NDC 
implementation plan 2021-2030
 2.4  MANAGEMENT OBJECTIvES, POLICIES, STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS
Objective 1
  
  Coastal erosion prevention is ensured through optimal shoreline management works/measures consisting of soft 
solutions, combination of soft and hard solutions or hard solutions
Policy 1.1
  Maintain the coastline at a predefined position (Basal Shoreline Position-BSP).
Strategy 1.1.1
  Shoreline retreat should be minimized.
Proposed Actions
 1. Establishing coastal cell boundaries through a scientific study.
 2. establishing coastline positions within each cell through a study on how the shoreline has been changing over the time. 
this may be initially done for the shoreline sections where the erosion impacts are severe and may extend to the other 
areas when funds and resources are available.
 3. establishing the bsp  for sections of the beach which was there on a predetermined date to be defended against erosion 
through appropriate measures such as periodic sand nourishment etc.

<!-- page 30 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
30a
 4. t aking appropriate measures to maintain the bsb established.
 5. Updating the status of the coastline periodically which will help taking quick corrective measures to control erosion. 
seasonal shoreline variation may be allowed through a tolerance range in the bsp .
Strategy 1.1.2
  re-establishment of a shoreline that has been changed due to a development activity is a responsibility of the developer.
Proposed Actions
 1. t ake appropriate action to ensure that the development activities do not change the sand budget at the adjoining 
shorelines.
 2. at places where the proposed development activity has a potential to disturb the natural movement of sand, take 
appropriate action to ensure that the development plan has a sand bypass or other suitable mechanism so that the 
downstream sand budget remains unchanged.
 3. The permit system that allows development activities in the coastal zone should cover an extended period beyond the 
construction/implementation completion to see whether there are any subsequent changes in the shoreline. it may be a 
period of about two years after the completion of the marine structure construction which covers two sets of different 
weather seasons.
  measures that are required to mitigate shoreline changes due to a development activity will be carried out by the 
CC&Crmd with the funds made available by the developer.
Strategy 1.1.3
  ensure the beach is properly restored to the satisfaction of CC&Crmd subsequent to any retrieval of coastal 
resources.
Proposed Actions
 1. monitor and regulate the removal of mineral sand and other beach material.
 2. monitor the beach restoration process after the extraction of mineral and other resources.
Policy 1.2
  Coastal stabilization will be carried out in a planned manner by the identification of by analyzing the coastal erosion 
trends.
Strategy 1.2.1
  Identify coastal erosion trends; prioritize areas for protection based on high levels of erosion and threats to public 
and private properties, economic activities and utilities as well as critical habitats; adopting proper monitoring 
procedures and formulating site-specific management interventions.
Proposed Actions
 1. Study and identify coastal erosion trends and areas with specific attention on North and Eastern coastal segment 
subject to, o r liable to, high levels of erosion.

<!-- page 31 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
31a
 2. Conduct monitoring programmes based on priority areas to enable the preparation of a status report on coastal 
conditions, and to update it periodically.
 3. develop a guidelines on how to prepare and implement shoreline management planning where appropriate.
 4. initiate the process of shoreline management planning for priority locations on a pilot basis.
 5. permit public or private entities to prepare and implement coast protection works which comply with the shoreline 
management plans.
 6. monitor performance of existing coastal protection works and stability of coastline in areas where some form of 
control measures have been introduced based on a scheduled plan, and take action to maintain such works.
 7. Consider applying the general/specific guidelines introduced through shoreline management plans at appropriate 
locations during project approval procedures in the Coastal Zone.
Policy 1.3
  Coastal erosion control/shoreline management will be based on sound scientific/engineering assessment.
Strategy 1.3.1
  Facilitate the collection, storage and use of all scientific and socio-economic information relevant for erosion control 
and management through collaboration with national and international research agencies and universities, and develop 
a database for easy access of such information for shoreline management initiatives.
Proposed Actions
 1. establish a national programme (in collaboration with universities and other research agencies as relevant) for 
regular monitoring of coastal erosion and collate and collect related data/information on: scientific investigations of 
sediment balances and assessments of sediment sources; coastal erosion trends and status; threats to dwellings, land 
use and critical habitats from erosion; hydrographic conditions; and socio- economic characteristics in the Coastal 
Zone.
 2. prepare a list of activities, locations, timing, and other information relevant to each institute who will carry out 
regular erosion monitoring. assure fund availability through inclusion in the annual budgets and ensure proper 
implementation through periodic monitoring.
 3. establish and maintain a comprehensive database -through institutional monitoring on hydrographic conditions, 
land use, critical coastal habitats ecosystems and socio-economic characteristics in the Coastal Zone.
 4. establish (a) an inter-institutional database relevant for coastal erosion management and (b) a survey of coastal 
erosion and protection status. prepare a list of ‘who does what’ to ensure proper implementation.
 5.  formulate appropriate mechanisms to provide access to the metadata base (above) as well as an institutional database 
for public and private agencies and researchers.
Policy 1.4
  severe coastal erosion in highly developed and degraded areas with existing coastal protection measures will be 
addressed by reclamation to enable new development possibilities and enhance economic potential of coastal 
frontage s.

<!-- page 32 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
32a
Strategy 1.4.1
  promote measures to expand existing coastal frontages by implementing environmentally acceptable reclamation 
schemes, selectively and only where feasible, to provide development possibilities, coastal protection and opportunities 
to enhance economic potential.
Proposed Actions
 1. develop guidelines for reclaiming coastal frontages for development possibilities and providing additional buffers.
 2. Provide guidance on the preparation of reclamation plans to ensure that reclamation is confined to sites where the 
consequent shoreline readjustments are limited and protection costs can be recovered through development consistent 
with this objective.
Policy 1.5
  dune stability will be enhanced by prohibiting sand removal and promoting the growth of environmentally suitable/
endemic vegetation on sand dunes to minimize coastal erosion.
Strategy 1.5.1
  Control activities that have adverse impacts on dunes and dune vegetation and replant environmentally suitable/
endemic vegetation on sand dunes where the native vegetation is damaged.
Proposed Actions
 1. prohibit sand removal from dunes, control activities that cause damage to dune vegetation.
 2. replanting appropriate vegetation on sand dunes where the vegetation has been destroyed
Policy 1.6
  stability of natural coastal features will be enhanced in the process of shoreline management.
Strategy 1.6.1
  Formulate and implement shoreline management plans/coast protection schemes to minimize impacts of coastal 
erosion while enhancing stability of the coastal natural features.
Proposed Actions
 1. identify priority areas suitable for adopting shoreline management plans with special emphasis on coastal natural 
features.
Objective 2
  the location and type of development activities in and outside the Coastal Zone are made consonant with conserving 
the natural shoreline and coastal features.
Policy 2.1
  development activities within and outside the Coastal Zone will be coordinated and regulated to ensure that natural 
coastal proces ses are unhindered.

<!-- page 33 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
33a
Strategy 2.1.1
  permit only new development activities which are regulated within the Coastal Zone in accordance with setback 
standards and in areas not subject to erosion or flooding.
Proposed Actions
 1. develop a “Compliance monitoring plan”, and enforce adherence to coastal setback standards by conducting permit 
compliance monitoring surveys as required.
 2. Identify areas that are prone to coastal erosion and flooding and formulate appropriate guidelines.
 3. initiate legal action against non-compliance of stipulated setback standards as required, by working with relevant 
state agencies.
 4. build awareness of setback regulations at local, divisional and provincial level. implement a programme to show 
the setback details in a zoomable map through CC&CRMD Web.
 5. prepare a developers guide book comprising new setback standards, regulations and guidelines.
Policy 2.2
  Adverse impacts on the Coastal Zone from construction of coastal and marine structures will be minimized.
Strategy 2.2.1
  implement mitigation measures according to eia/iee studies to minimise adverse impacts due to construction of 
coastal and marine structures (except for shoreline management structures in accordance with shoreline management 
plans).
Proposed Actions
  1. Implement mitigatory measures recommended through EIA/IEE to minimize adverse impacts in the Coastal Zone 
from coastal structures and other schemes.
Policy 2.3
  The impacts of development activities carried out beyond the coastal zone will be investigated and areas suitable 
for designation as “affected areas” determined.
Strategy 2.3.1
  Formulate appropriate criteria to identify affected areas and prepare list of potential areas to be declared as affected 
areas within or adjacent to the coastal zone, through in-depth field investigations and public consultation. declare 
affected areas as required through Gazette notification.
Proposed Actions
 1. Prepare appropriate criteria and list of candidate sites to be declared as affected areas.
 2. formulate regulations for ad ministration and management of the affected areas.

<!-- page 34 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
34a
Policy 2.4
  Creation of additional buffers, reclamation and creation of artificial islands will be recognized as mechanisms to 
cope with coastal erosion and to minimize development pressures within the coastal zone.
Strategy 2.4.1
  formulate criteria based on technical, ecological, social, economic and political factors to determine suitable areas 
to create additional buffers, islands and reclamation.
 1. Based on the finalized criteria, prepare a list of candidate locations suitable for creation of additional buffers, 
reclamation and islands.
 2. Carry out eia  sea  to identify potential environmental, social and economic impacts and mitigatory measures.
 3. Formulate technical guidelines for creating islands and additional buffers.
Policy 2.5
  maintain the natural dynamic behaviour of the islands as they are very fragile geological formations.
Strategy 2.5.1
  ensure that the development activities do not disturb the natural dynamic behaviour at the islands.
Proposed Actions
 1. permit only the developments that do not disturb the sand movement at the islands.
 2. permit/promote structures that allow sand bypassing through them when planning marine structures.
 3. Carry out a comprehensive assessment on the stability the islands that are developing or evolving.
 4. Prepare a suitable shoreline management strategy to minimize the impacts on the developing or evolving islands.
Objective 3
  Beach stability is ensured by maintaining the sediment budget in the coastal zone.
Policy 3.1
  activities that disturb sand supply to the beach through rivers, streams, dunes etc. will be regulated.
Strategy 3.1.1
  regulation of sand mining in rivers and estuaries by means of guidelines specifying quotas, time and area limits 
and imposition of monitoring schemes.
Proposed Actions
 1. prepare a strategy for enforcement of the Guidelines for sand mining in the Coastal Zone; as well as landward and 
seaward of the Coastal Zone (including rivers upstream), in collaboration with relevant state organizations/agencies.

<!-- page 35 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
35a
 2. Undertake or facilitate periodic checking of sand mining in the Coastal Zone and in the rivers inland to curtail 
illegal sand mining in collaboration with the GSMB and the Divisional Secretariate’s officers according to the above 
strategy.
 3. adhere to guidelines by licensed mining operators.
 4. Conduct a survey and collate data on sand mining in and outside the Coastal Zone to identify the present magnitude 
of the problem, in collaboration with relevant institutions such as the Gsmb.
 5. Define sustainable limits and site specific sand budgets (using established sediment budgets) in collaboration with 
relevant state institutes, universities and research organizations.
Policy 3.2
  river sand mining will be alleviated by the promoting alternative sources of sand for construction.
Strategy 3.2.1
  Promote research to find feasible alternatives for the use of river sand in the construction industry.
Proposed Actions
 1. CC&Crmd to promote research in collaboration with institutions and relevant administrative bodies to:
 • Identify new technologies that minimize the use of sand for construction.
 • Enhance the use of alternatives to river sand to meet the requirements of the construction industry.
Strategy 3.2.2
  Promote the use of sand from offshore sources as an alternative to river sand.
Proposed Actions
 1. Explore appropriate sources of offshore sand deposits through investigations.
 2. Collate all available information and data in sri Lanka and elsewhere on the use of sea sand in the construction 
industry in collaboration with research organizations, Universities and National organizations funding research, and 
form a Central database.
 3. Carry out a cost benefit study of the use of offshore sand in the construction industry.
 4. Create awareness on the benefits of the use of offshore sand for the construction industry and beach nourishment 
in collaboration with national and regional level state organizations, media and NGOs, based on available data and 
results of impact assessments.
 5. Liaise with the relevant organizations involved with offshore sand mining and storage to ensure availability of sand 
to the public.
 6.  Coordinate inter-agency efforts to provide alternative employment for displaced river sand miners.
 7.  encourage G overnment entities for the usage of offshore sand for public sector constructions.

<!-- page 36 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
36a
Policy 3.3. 
  beach stability will be enhanced by eradicating sea coral mining.
Strategy 3.3.1
  While recognizing the low level of sea coral mining, enforce the ban on sea coral mining more stringently to ensure 
a total halt.
Proposed Actions
 1. enforce the ban on coral mining in collaboration with the police and Local authorities.
 2. identify alternative sources for coral lime, and plan and promote mining of these resources.
 3. formulate collaborative mechanisms with relevant authorities to promote the introduction of alternatives for coral 
based lime.
Policy 3.4
  Promote conduct of national sand study to determine availability of sources and quantity of sand including off shore 
sources for construction and other purposes in compliance with the future demand.
Strategy 3.4.1
  Launch a programme on the importance of conducting a national sand study in the face of massive economic 
development taking place in the country and the envisaged economic development targets for next ten years.
Proposed Actions
 1.  prepare concept paper highlighting the requirement of conducting a national sand study or any other relevant studies.
 2.  Launch a national sand study and disseminate findings for policy considerations.
 3.  Monitor the status of the offshore sites where large-scale sand mining has been carried out in the past to understand 
the physical and ecological impacts.
Objective 4
  ensure the resilience against impacts of climate change on coastal features, infrastructure and coastal communities.
Policy 4.1
  a vailability and timely implementation of contingency measures to mitigate impacts of climate change on coastal 
geography, infrastructure, livelihoods, and coastal communities.
Strategy 4.1.1
  formulate contingency measures through quantifying and monitoring impacts of climate change on sea level rise, 
coastal  erosion, flooding, coastal structures and other coastal developments.

<!-- page 37 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
37a
Proposed Actions
 1. Collate data from all relevant authorities on climate change parameters such as wind and wave patterns, rainfall, , 
sea level rise, etc. to predict coastal impacts of sea climate change.
 2. Establish a database on climate change features relevant to coastal zone management in collaboration with relevant 
state organizations.
 3. establish links with international agencies/global programmes to obtain data and information on climate change, 
related features and mitigatory actions.
 4. analyse impacts of climate change and establish systems for timely adaptive and mitigatory action.
 5. Develop an effective mechanism to collaborate with institutions dealing with the scientific and social aspects of 
natural hazards to minimise impacts and for efficient remedial action.
 6. Coordinate inter-agency action required to mitigate impacts of natural hazards in the Coastal Zone and for remedial 
measures.
 7. establish a mechanism through which realistic estimates of sea level rise and other climate change impacts are taken 
into account routinely in erosion management and development in the Coastal Zone.
Policy 4.2
  Promote climate change adaptation measures to minimize issues related to possible sea level rise and other 
repercussions related to climate change impacts on the coastal zone.
Strategy 4.2.1
  implement climate change adaptation strategy as spelt out under the Coastal and marine sector of the NdC 
implementation plan 2021-2030.
Proposed Actions
 1. attempt to establish a most realistic level of sea level rise.
 2. establish the mid-century and end-century shorelines.
 3.  Formulate climate change compatible guidelines for coastal development including coastal fisheries and aquaculture 
in collaboration with relevant agencies.
 4.   Make the people aware of coastal flooding due to sea level rise through flood risk maps,  which would discourage 
them moving into vulnerable areas.
Objective 5
  Coastal community resilience will be adopted as a long term measure to minimize impacts and vulnerability of 
coastal erosion that may increase due extreme coastal hazards.
Policy 5.1
  Make sure the community is aware of the coastal hazard-prone areas which will ensure preparedness and expedite 
the disaster recovery process.

<!-- page 38 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
38a
Strategy 5.1.1
 
  Formulate criteria for identifying hazard-prone areas in the coastal region based on previous events and predictions 
made through the coastal vulnerability index.
Proposed Actions
 1. Identify areas to be designated as coastal hazard prone areas based on the criteria formulated.
 2. make the community aware of the risk
 3. initiate coastal community resilience programme in such areas with the collaboration of relevant state agencies to 
minimize and bounce back from shocks.
 4. Discourage development activities in places such as collapsible coastal cliffs, moving landforms, etc, where the 
vulnerability is very high and post-disaster recovery is difficult.
REFERENCES
 1. abeyratne s.h(2023), Unregulated river sand mining in sri Lanka, a  way forward for sustainable river sand mining
 2. byrne G. et al. 2002, alternative for river sand, Unpublished report Crmp , 2002
 3. byrne, G and Nanayakkara, a. 2002, alternatives for river sands, final report, unpublished, Coastal resources 
management project
 4.  Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management department, 1986, master plan for Coastal e rosion 
management
 5. Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management department, 2004, revised Coastal Zone management 
plan 2004
 6.  Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management department, 2014, preparation of a shoreline status report 
Covering Effectiveness of Structural and Non-structural Solutions Adopted by Coast Conservation Department since 
2004
 7. ministry of environment (2021), Nationally  determined Contributions (2021-2030)
 8. ministry of environment sri Lanka, 2011, Climate Change Vulnerability data book
 9. Olsen et.al, 1992 “Coastal 2000”; a  resources management strategy for sri Lanka’s Coastal region.
 10.  Oppenheimer, m., b.C. Glavovic , J. hinkel, r. van de Wal, a.K. magnan, a. abd- elgawad, r. Cai, m.  
Cifuentes-Jara, R.M. DeConto, T. Ghosh, J. Hay, F. Isla, B. Marzeion, B. Meyssignac, and Z. Sebesvari, 2019: 
sea Level rise and implications for Low-Lying islands, Coasts and Communities. in: ipCC special report on the 
Ocean and Cryosphere in a Changing Climate [h.-O. pörtner, d.C. roberts, V . masson-delmotte, p . Zhai, m. t ignor,  
E. Poloczanska, K. Mintenbeck, A. Alegría, M. Nicolai, A. Okem, J. Petzold, B. Rama, N.M. Weyer (eds.)]. Cambridge 
University press, Cambridge, UK and New y ork,
 11. Sri Lanka Land Reclamation & Development Corporation, 2013, Quantity of offshore sand pumping for the 
requirement of construction industry of sri Lanka from 2004 – 2013 (internal records)

<!-- page 39 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
39a
CHAPTER  3 - CONSER v ATION AND SuSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF COASTAL ECOSYSTEMS
 3.1 Environmental, Social, and Economic Significance of Coastal Ecosystems
  sri Lanka has a diverse range of coastal ecosystems that include estuaries and lagoons (214,522 ha), mangroves (11,656 
ha), seagrass beds (37,137 ha), salt marshes (27,520 ha), coral reefs (not determined) and large extents of beaches 
including barrier beaches, spits (5,731 ha) and sand dunes (10,363 ha) (t able 3.1 gives the extents of these ecosystems 
by Districts based on GIS data analysis). Each of these coastal ecosystems possesses a significant number of species and 
provides an array of ecosystem services vital to humans. in addition to the environmental services, these ecosystems 
support the livelihoods of the coastal communities in a significant manner to enhance their economic status and maintain 
social integrity. m any coastal and inshore resources associated with the coastal ecosystems support a developing export 
industry based on the export of prawns, Lobsters, Crabs, beach de mer (sea Cucumber), Chanks and shells, and other 
fishery products which earned over Rupees 24,716 million in 2015 (MFAR 2016).
  Coastal ecosystems comprise a rich component of the country’s coastal and marine biodiversity. as per the prevailing 
information, the identified species in marine and coastal waters are over 1,800 pelagic species of fish, 05 species of 
turtles that come ashore to nest on the beaches, 38 species of endangered and rare marine mammals including the 
dugong, and 37 species of cetaceans. several species of sea snakes and a diverse array of coral and reef-associated 
organisms are also found in these areas. Genetic diversity within coastal ecosystems is also believed to be high and of 
possible economic value. in addition, estuaries and lagoons, coral reefs, mangroves, seagrass beds, and salt marshes 
also function as vital breeding and/or nursery grounds for numerous species of fish, crustaceans and mollusks, many 
of which are of commercial value.
  the non-extractive value of coastal ecosystems such as coral reefs, mangroves, estuaries/lagoons, and beaches are very 
high and has considerable economic and aesthetic value. The water bodies of lagoons and estuaries function like buffer 
zones, protecting coastal communities from the full force of weather-related events, such as storm surges, floods, and 
cyclones by damping wave action, dissipating river discharge, and temporarily storing water. the ecosystems such 
as mangroves, sea grass beds, and salt marshes function as large filters to extract pollutants, excess nutrients, and 
sediment carried out from municipal and industrial wastewater inland and stormwater runoff. (Miththapala, Sriyanie 
2013) They are also used for mooring small fishing crafts and many other fishery-related activities. Beaches around 
the island accommodate sites of religious, archaeological, and historic value as well as homesteads for a considerable 
section of the coastal population, particularly for fishing communities.
  Coastal communities traditionally use coastal vegetation such as mangroves for various purposes, such as providing 
food and beverages, timber for house building and boat construction, firewood, material for the preparation of fishing 
accessories, etc. Many coastal ecosystems, particularly coral reefs and sand dunes help stabilize the shoreline. Coral reefs 
especially act as natural barriers against coastal erosion by dissipating high-energy wave action, which is particularly 
heavy during monsoons.
Table 3- 1: Extent of Coastal Ecosystems by District (ha)*
District Mangroves Salt Marshes Dunes Beaches,  
Barrier 
Beaches and 
Spits
Lagoons and 
Estuaries
Other Water 
Bodies
Sea 
Grasses
Colombo - - - - 400 -
Kalutara 175 - - 45 172 105 -
Galle 768 224 - 112 1,259 486 -
matara 66 - - 338 - 101 -
hambantota 793 1,270 1,623 325 1,346 2,213 -

<!-- page 40 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
40a
District Mangroves Salt Marshes Dunes Beaches,  
Barrier 
Beaches and 
Spits
Lagoons and 
Estuaries
Other Water 
Bodies
Sea 
Grasses
ampara 677 294 607 816 - - -
batticaloa 2071 2781 - 1,093 44,132 2,273 -
t rincomalee 3369 1,365 - 337 18,100 1,192 -
mullaitivu 824 722 - 717 5,377 352 2,054
Jaffna 2638 4,970 4,590 800 43,872 2,100 21,225
Kilinochchi 2226 5,943 - 872 8,123 76 509
mannar 1944 5,602 899 215.5 5,144 1,661 13,349
puttalam 2784 1,557 2,644 328.6 83,581 3,003 -
Gampaha 713 1,274 - 36.7 3,416 - -
t otal extent 19758 27,520 10,363 5,731.6 214,522 13,062 37,137
Source: 1. Synthesis report on coastal habitats (2014): 2. Premakantha K.T et al., The Sri Lanka Forester, Vol.41, 2022, 01-12
 3.1.1  Coastal Ecosystems
* Coral Reefs 
  Coral reefs in Sri Lanka are categorized into three habitat types. They are (a) true coral reefs consisting of live corals 
as well as calcareous substances, (b) sandstone reefs, and (c) rocky reefs.   the latter two reef types may also be 
covered by corals to varying degrees. All three ecosystems are distinctly different but may be found mixed together 
(Rajasooriya and White 1995). More than 200 species of stony corals and 900 species of reef-associated fish have 
been documented in sri Lanka. in addition, nine main habitual reef-building coral families were also reported. it 
is also found that around 70% of total marine fish production comes from coastal waters and reef habitats (Perera 
N,2019)
  t he condition of the reef, mainly combined with substrate cover, diversity, and abundance of reef organisms, indicates 
that the best reefs are associated with the barrier-type reefs located offshore. These reefs are found mainly in North 
Western, south eastern, and eastern waters. the most extensive coral reefs in sri Lanka are the patchy coral reefs 
in the North Western coastal and offshore waters, occurring within the Gulf of Mannar and west of the Kalpitiya 
peninsula. patchy coral reefs have also been recorded in the Western and eastern coastal areas of the island at a 
distance of about 15-20 km from the shore, at an average depth of 20 m. the south Western, eastern, and Northern 
coasts also contain fringing coral reefs adjacent to the shore, growing from the sea floor usually on a nucleus of 
rock. it has been estimated that about 2 % of the coastline contains fringing coral reefs. Hikkaduwa, Unawatuna 
and Rumassala are some of the main fringing reefs along the south Western coast and Passikudah is one of the 
known fringing reefs on the Eastern coast. Coral reefs also occur around the Jaffna Peninsula - mainly around the 
small coastal islets, but they are not extensively developed. barrier coral reefs, consisting of ridges of coral lying some 
  Coral reefs are among the most diverse ecosystems on Earth, hosting a wide variety of marine 
life, including fish, invertebrates, and algae. They provide habitat and breeding grounds for 
numerous species, many of which are commercially valuable for fishing and tourism. Protecting 
these reefs helps maintain biodiversity and the overall health of the marine ecosystem.
Conserving coral reefs in the country is vital for the well-being of the environment, economy, 
and local communities. Conservation efforts are essential to ensure the sustainability of these 
ecosystems and the benefits they provide to current and future generations.

<!-- page 41 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
41a
distance from the shore, parallel with it, and forming a broad ‘reef lagoon’, are rare in sri Lanka but some are found 
at Vankalai and Silavathurai.  sandstone reefs are widespread along the coast. many of these are located along the 
bathymetric contours of the continental shelf. rocky reefs occur from south of Colombo on the West Coast to the 
southern areas of the t rincomalee district in the North east.
  the coral cover in the reefs located in the southern part of the island is extremely low when compared to the reefs 
located in the Eastern and the Northern part mainly due to the external impacts. Destructive fishing practices including, 
bottom set netting, stepping, dynamiting, coir industry, glass bottom boat maneuvering, destructive fisheries activities, 
and excess sediment and freshwater influx are the major causes responsible for the degraded situation on the Southern 
coast ( Synthesis Report on Coastal Habitat 2014). however, current information revealed that the live coral cover 
at Hikkaduwa National park had increased from 12 % in 2005 to 26 % in 2007 mainly due to rapid settlement and 
growth of Pocillopora damicornis, which had risen from 6 % of the total live coral cover in 2004 to 35 % in 2007. it 
is also reported that the present cover of Acropora was only 0.6 % due to a high level of sedimentation (rajasooriya 
2008). the live coral cover at Kapparatota also decreased from 52 % in 2004 to 22 % in 2006. as per the current 
information it was reported that live coral cover at Polhena  is confined to 21.2 % while 6.45 % at Madiha due to 
anthropogenic activities such as coconut retting, ornamental fish collection and reef walking (Synthesis Report on 
Coastal Habitat 2014).
  the synthesis report on Coastal habitats 2014 indicates that the coral reefs located in the Northern and eastern 
parts of the country are in better condition compared to the southern part of the country. it was reported that live 
coral cover at Punkudativu and Mandativu Island in the Jaffna Peninsula was 45 % with 29 % of limestone substrate 
(synthesis report on Coastal habitats 2014). the condition of the coral reef in dutch bay       in t rincomalee is reported 
as relatively in good condition and constitutes of branching Acropora spp., foliose Monitipora, and Echinpora 
lamellose. according to the previous monitoring reports, the live coral cover of this reef was 52 % and 20 % coral 
rubble. as a result of the 2004 tsunami, the reef sustained extensive damages and currently supports 38.8 % live 
hard corals with 40.23 % rubble cover. the shallow coral reef at pigeon island in t rincomalee is dominated by 
branching and tabulated Acropora spp and no damages were reported due to the 2004 tsunami. thus, the live coral 
cover of 54.38 %  in 2003 has been increased to 74.25 % by 2005. according to the monitoring studies carried out 
by Nara, the live hard coral cover has increased from 40 % in 2004 to 70 % in early 2007 in the bar reef marine 
sanctuary at Kalpitiya.  this increase is mainly due to the rapid growth of Acropora Cytherea, which constitutes 
more than 75 % of the live hard corals.
* Sea Grass Beds
  sri Lanka’s coastal waters have extensive seagrass beds, often occurring in association with coral reef ecosystems or 
estuaries and lagoons. t hey are particularly found in the basin estuaries and lagoons of puttalam, mundal, Negombo, 
Mawella, Rekawa, Koggala, Kokilai, Jaffna and Batticaloa. A total of 16 seagrass species belonging to 10 genera 
have been reported from puttalam Negombo, mundal and rekawa lagoons. extensive sea grass beds have been 
reported from the Dutch Bay (in Kalpitiya) to the Western end of the Jaffna Peninsula and from Mannar to the North 
West across the palk bay and to rameswaram island on the indian coast (samarakoon and pinto 1988). however, 
the distribution of sea grases along the coast from North east to south east is limited and no records are available. 
Thus, it is difficult to get a clear picture of the total composition and distribution of sea grases in the coastal zone 
of sri Lanka. however, the extent of sea grass beds in sri Lanka has been reported as 23,819 ha (Gunathilleke at el 
in 2008).
  seagrass, the marine angiosperms, are considered to be among the most productive submerged ecosystems. they 
serve as a source of energy for a complex food web, provide ecosystems for endangered dugong (dugong dugong) 
Sea grass are flowering plants that thrive in shallow oceanic and estuarine waters and are descendants 
of terrestrial plants that re-entered the ocean between 100 and 65 million years ago. They have leaves, 
stems, rhizomes and roots. Sea grass beds often occur in sheltered waters combined with coral reef 
ecosystems or estuaries and lagoons.

<!-- page 42 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
42a
and other aquatic organisms including epiphytes to consolidate sediment, produce detritus, and are a source of 
dissolved and particulate organic carbon for the aquatic food webs. in addition, they also serve as nursery functions 
for a large number of fish, crustaceans and bivalves that use these ecosystems as a refuge, particularly in the larval 
stage of their life cycles that are vulnerable to sudden environmental changes and susceptibility to predation (silva 
eiL et. al 2013). in sri Lanka, bristle worms (polychaetes) are harvested from seagrass beds as brood stock for feed 
aquaculture. In addition to temperature, light, and nutrients, sheltered zone with substrates constituted of sand mud, 
and dead, are corals ideal for the dense growth of seagrases that are rich in species diversity. seagrass also acts as 
a filter for coastal waters and stabilizes the floor of the coastal seas. In addition, seagrass absorbs carbon dioxide 
from the ocean when they photosynthesize (Miththapala, S, 2008).
  Sea grass beds are subjected to various threats due to anthropogenic activities such as destructive fishing practices, 
collection of invertebrates or shellfish harvesting, construction of physical structures, altering tidal influx, intrusion 
of agrochemicals, the emergence of macro-algal stands, regulation of water inflows, effluent discharges from shrimp 
farms and solid waste disposal. Table 3-2 shows sea grass species from different coastal sectors in Sri Lanka.
Table 3- 2: Sea Grass Species from Different Coastal Sectors in Sri Lanka
Species North South West North West
Cymodocea rotundata x x
Cymodocea serrulata x x
Enhalus acoroides x x
Halodule pinifolia x
Halodule uninervis x x
Halophila beccarii x
Halophila decipien x x
Halophila minor x
Halophila ovalis x x x
Halophila ovata x x
Potamogeton pectinatus x x
Naja marina x
Ruppia maritima x x x
Siringodium isoetifolium x x x
Thalassia hemprichii x x
Sostrea sp x
t otal 8 7 7 8
* Estuaries and Lagoons
A coastal lagoon is a shallow coastal body of water, separated from the ocean by a barrier; this barrier 
can be formed by a coral reef, a barrier island, a sand bar or a spit, shingle or less frequently rocks. 
An estuary is a point at which a river and the sea meet. Estuaries are therefore a dynamic ecosystem 
where seawater is brought in by the tides but is diluted by freshwater flowing in from rivers and streams

<!-- page 43 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
43a
  Sri Lanka’s coastline is characterized by a series of estuaries and lagoons, which are transitional ecosystems of diverse 
tropic statuses, scenic beauties, rich rare and endemic species, aquatic biodiversity, and ecosystem productivity 
they are complex socio-ecological systems containing a diversity of species and a variety of coastal ecosystems 
including mangroves, salt marshes, sea grass beds and mud flats. The heterogeneous nature and complexities of 
lagoons and estuaries are primarily determined by geomorphology, climate and weather, tidal fluxes and fluvial 
inputs and cohesive interactions with land-based activities (silva e.i.L et. al 2013). by and large, the range of 
ecosystem services provided by the lagoons and estuaries are undervalued and their multiple use and benefits 
have not been adequately taken into consideration policy formulation and decision-making process. besides the 
primary features, the knowledge of the ecological significance of the lagoon and estuaries are negligible. A total 
of 82 lagoons with a shoreline (perimeter) of 2,791 km are located in the coastal region and are considered to 
be highly productive and contain economic value associated with the biological production of aquatic and semi 
aquatic habitat and mangrove vegetation. a  meaningful approach to the management of barrier-built estuaries and 
lagoons must combine bio-physical, socio-economic and political considerations. therefore, estuaries and lagoons 
are regarded as socio-ecological systems (ses), (samarakoon et al. (2012).
Table 3- 3: Number of Lagoons located in each Coastal Region
Coastal Region Lagoon Area
 (sq.km)
Lagoon Perimeter 
(km)
Number of 
Lagoons
North 804 1,221 17
Northeast 182 411 04
east 44 174 14
southeast 29 149 16
south 23 109 10
southwest 20 166 09
West 46 151 03
Northwest 372 410 09
Total 1,520 2,791 82
Source: Silva E.I.L et. al 2013
  There are two different types of estuaries; riverine estuaries where the rivers or streams discharge directly into 
the sea through relatively narrow channels (e.g. the Kelani Ganga, maha Oya, Kalu Ganga and Nilwala Ganga 
estuaries) and barrier built basin estuaries where the river or stream first discharges into a relatively shallow basin 
before entering the sea (e.g. Puttalam, Negombo, Jaffna, Batticaloa estuaries). In some places, riverine estuaries 
open in to a bay that opens to the sea (e.g. the Kala Oya riverine estuary opens to dutch bay, the mahaweli estuary 
opens to Koddiyar and thambalagam bays, and the polatu modara estuary to Weligama bay). Overall, there are 
45 estuaries of which 28 are of the riverine type and 17 of the basin type. the total extent of basin estuaries in the 
country amounts to 90,965 ha (basin area only) and riverine estuaries cover about 2,110 ha. there are around 89 
lagoons ranging from 03 ha to 7,589 ha in extent, of which 08 cover more than 1,000 ha each. t otal extent of lagoons 
amounts to about 36,000 ha. Lagoons are more abundant along the North, south, south eastern and eastern coasts 
where the littoral drift causes an accumulation of sand to form barriers and spits at river mouths through which the 
freshwater discharge is low.
*		Salt Marshes
Salt marshes are found close to the landward margin of the inter-tidal zone where 
the soil salinity is relatively high due to insufficient fresh water supply to flush out the 
accumulated salts. Salt marshes consist of herbaceous, salt resistant plants growing 
in sandy or mud tidal flats in arid areas and are periodically inundated by the sea.

<!-- page 44 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
44a
  the existing information revealed that there are around 27,520 ha of salt marshes in the country (synthesis report 
on Coastal Habitats 2014). Extensive salt marshes also occur in the Mannar area (mainly on tidal flats and containing 
about 56 species of marsh vegetation) in the coastal belt from mantai to Vankalai. patchy salt marshes also occur 
mainly in sedimented lagoon/estuarine areas such as hambantota, puttalam, Kalpitiya and mundel.
* 		Mangroves
  Mangroves are highly productive but extremely vulnerable ecosystems confined to intertidal zones of coastal 
environments including lagoons. according to premakantha K.t  et.al (2022) sri Lanka’s mangrove areas amounted 
to about 19,758 ha and largest tract of mangroves are found in puttalam Lagoon, the Kala Oya basin and t rincomalee 
(sri Lanka forester2022). sri Lanka’s tidal variation being low and rarely exceeding 75 cm, mangroves generally 
occur as a narrow belt in inter-tidal areas of lagoons, estuaries or associated islands and river mouths.
  However, they do not occur in all inter-tidal areas and are confined to areas with low wave action. Although mangroves 
rarely extend beyond 01 km landwards from the mean Low Water t idal Level, they may spread up-river to the 
upper limit of brackish water intrusion in some riverine estuaries, even up to a distance of 20 km (e.g. Galatara in 
the Kalutara district). in addition to the tacit value and environmental services rendered by mangroves, it supports 
the depending communities by providing fish resources, fuel wood, building materials and dyes for coloration of 
fishnets. (Silva, E.I.L at el 2013). Mangroves serve to reduce the effects of floods while functioning as filters to sift 
out pollutants that reach the coastal area from inland and trap sediments. it is also important in carbon sequestration.
  The major mangrove areas in Sri Lanaka are located around Jaffna, Vadamarachchi (Thondamanar) Lagoons, Kokilai, 
Nayaru, Nanthikadal Lagoons, t rincomalee, Kathiraveli, Upparu Lagoon, Valachchenai, batticaloa Lagoon, pothuvil 
(eastern Coast),Weligama, Gintota, balapitiya, bentota (southern Coast), panadura estuary, Negombo and Chilaw 
Lagoons, mundal Lake, puttalam Lagoon, dutch b ay, portugal b ay and mannar (Western and North Western Coast). 
Although the records of true mangrove species are inconsistent 22 mangrove species have been identified. This 
amount reflects, one third of the world’s mangrove species. Among identified species, most dominant are Avicennia 
marina, Lumnitzera racemosa, Rhizophora mucronata and Excoecaria agallocha.(Sri Lanka Forester 2022).
*	Barrier Beaches, Spits and Dunes
  sri Lanka’s wide and sandy beaches along much of the 1,620 km coastline are famed for their scenic beauty and 
support a distinct littoral fauna and flora. Beaches have been formed by accumulation of sediment deposited on 
the shore. among them, barrier beaches, spits and dunes are the most delicate and vulnerable due to their changing 
nature.
Mangroves are woody, seed-bearing, highly specialized plants ranging in size from 
shrubs to tall trees. These shrubs and trees are adapted to grow in intertidal zones 
of lagoons, estuaries and sheltered bays in tropical and some sub-tropical regions 
in the world. Mangrove ecosystems consist of intertidal zones of muddy shores 
in bays, lagoons and estuaries dominated by highly adapted woody halophytes 
associated with continuous watercourses, swamps and backwaters, together with 
their population of plants and animals
.
Barrier beaches are accumulations of unconsolidated sediments transported ashore 
by waves and moulded into a form that lies across a body of water, isolating it from 
the sea. Spits are incipient barrier beaches that projects from the shore in the 
direction of the dominant drift and are free at one end. Sand Dunes are wind-blown 
accumulation of sand, which are distinctive from adjacent landforms such as beaches 
and tidal flats mainly due to the fact that dunes do not get the effects of tides.

<!-- page 45 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
45a
 *	Barrier Beaches
  Coastal areas around the island contain barrier beaches that isolate lagoons and swamps from the sea (e.g. the beaches 
at rekawa, Kosgoda, and panama). barrier beaches are found mainly between bentota and balapitiya on the south 
Western Coast. along the southern Coast, there is a barrier beach at Weligam ba, and several between dondra and 
Ambalantota. Thambalagam Bay, a westward embankment of Koddiyar Bay, is almost entirely cut off as a barrier 
beach, which is partially breached during the North east monsoon. some barrier beaches are free at both ends and 
form islands (e.g. at Karaitivu).
*	Spits
  spits are frequently observed along the Western and eastern Coasts of the country and are associated with estuaries. 
examples are the shoal that builds seasonally at the mouth of the Negombo estuary and the sand spit at the Kalu Ganga 
estuary. some of the barrier beaches and spits have extensive dunes associated with them as seen at Kalpitiya. most 
spits appear to be unstable, especially those which protrude into estuaries (e.g. the Kalu Ganga spit). Consequently, 
they shift position from time to time, causing changes in the form and precise location of the inlets of estuaries. for 
example, the inlet of the batticaloa estuary has shifted northward to its present position from a previous location 
05 km to the South. Some spits are formed seasonally at estuarine inlets and tend to obstruct the natural water flow 
patterns, often resulting in the inundation of low-lying lands (e.g. the Kalu Ganga and maha Oya estuaries).
*	Dunes
  Coastal dunes are unique terrestrial ecosystems located in the transition zone between the ocean and the continent. 
these habitats ecosystems are naturally dynamic and, therefore, highly fragile and vulnerable to the impacts of 
human-induced activities.
  There are three types of dunes that have been identified in the country. They are:
 * Low, flat to slightly undulating, isolated platforms of sand less than 01 m in height (e.g. incipient dunes 
found at Koggala, matara, akurala and Uswetakeiyawa)  
 * t ransverse primary dunes, consisting of single fore-dune ridges of undulating sand masses associated 
with stable beaches, exceeding 05 m in height (e.g. dunes at mannar, pooneryn, Kalpitiya and along the 
south eastern Coast)  
 * secondary transgressive dunes, usually exceeding 03 m in height (e.g. dunes at mannar, pooneryn, 
Kalpitiya and Jaffna), most of which are longitudinal, some are parabolic and a few are complex in form.
  the most prominent sand dunes lie along the North eastern, North Western and south eastern Coasts of sri Lanka. 
these extend from mullaitivu and point pedro, elephant pass and Chavakachcheri across mannar island towards 
Kalpitiya and ambakandawila. On the south east, they extend from ambalantota (Godawaya) in the hambantota 
District to Sangamankande Point in the Ampara District. The latter is identified as the longest stretch of dunes in 
the world, close to the equator.
  sand dunes in sri Lanka are essential components of the coastal vistas and bio-diversity. t he materials in sand dunes 
protect the land behind them from storm erosion and potential sea level rise. dune vegetation also traps sand and 
prevent it from being blown further inland. When there are storm surges and waves, sand dunes prevent flooding 
inland. According to prevailing information, intact sand dunes were the most effective barrier against tsunami waves 
that affected the coastal region of Sri Lanka in 2004 (Bambaradeniya et al. 2006).
 3.2 PRESENT STATuS OF COASTAL ECOSYSTEMS
  Despite the management measures adopted by government, non-government and civil organizations in the country, a 
significant amount of coastal ecosystems in   Sri Lanka have undergone degradation in different degrees in different 

<!-- page 46 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
46a
locations in the past resulting in the decline of their resources as well as extents at an unprecedented rate. Underlying 
the apparent degradation of coastal ecosystems is the fact that they are very fragile and vulnerable to many dynamic 
processes occurring on land and in the sea, due to both natural causes and human interventions. these factors could 
be categorized into three types. Firstly, the quality and quantity of coastal ecosystems have been degraded due to 
over-exploitation parallel to population growth in the coastal region, for the purpose of economic benefits. Secondly, 
natural chronic and episodic disasters such as coastal erosion, cyclones (1978) tsunami (2004) and “elNino” southern 
Oscillation effect (1998) directly created a negative impact on most of the coastal ecosystems located within the 
coastal region. Thirdly, the thirty-year conflict situation that prevailed in the country until 2009 caused much damage 
to some of the coastal ecosystems, especially in the North and the eastern Coastal region.
 3.2.1  Issues and Threats
 •	 Damage and Destruction of Coral Reefs 
  The value of environmental services of coral reefs in providing benefits to society is very significant and identified 
as the most valuable shallow water marine ecosystems in sri Lanka. however, these reefs are now degraded at 
many sites, due to both natural causes and human impacts. the degraded reef ecosystem can be seen especially in 
the near-shore areas of Western and southern coastal segments. prior to the tsunami event experienced in 2004, the 
principal cause for coral reef destruction was the large-scale mining of corals for the lime industry. this is despite 
the ban imposed in 1988 on mining, collecting, transporting and processing of sea coral. the available data show a 
perceptible decline of sea coral mining between 1984 and 1998. after the tsunami event, the mining of sea corals for 
the lime industry in the south and south Western coastal regions tremendously decreased to a negligible level. apart 
from the regulatory measures, public awareness and monitoring procedures implemented by the Coast Conservation 
and Coastal Resources Management Department as well as self-realization of the importance of coral reefs among 
the coastal communities led to this situation.
  the nature and main causes of coral reef degradation has been changed overtime and other factors have been 
appeared as main factors contributing to damage coral reefs at present. among these factors, the use of destructive 
fishing methods such as the use of dynamite, the use of Moxy nets to catch ornamental fish, and bottom set nets on 
coral reefs to catch lobsters have been reported. Similarly, the use of unregulated fishing gear such as “surukku” 
and “lyila” nets also reduced valuable and rare fish species inhabiting the reefs. Moreover, coral reefs are damaged 
due to sedimentation, pollution and tourism related activities.
  t he growth of the coastal tourist industry has also, directly and indirectly, caused damage to the coral reefs, particularly 
those in the southern, North Western and eastern coastal areas. direct habitat loss or damage was evident in these 
areas due to stepping on the reef, placing anchors on coral reef areas, ramming of glass bottom boats against the 
reef and collection of reef materials as souvenirs. in addition, indirect impacts such as pollution due to incorrect 
siting of sewage disposal systems related to tourist facilities, inadequate or poorly designed infrastructure are quite 
evident in these areas.
  beside human interventions, coral destruction in most shallow areas was evident in 1998 due to mass bleaching 
caused by high water temperature associated with ‘El Nino” Southern Oscillation (ENSO) effect in many areas. 
in recent years, el Nino events have become more frequent, with the interval reducing from 12 years to 07 years 
although the time frame is too short to confirm this trend. As per the prevailing records, there were somewhat 
significant bleaching events that occurred in 2000, 2002, 2003 and 2005 in various parts of the country but not on 
the scale of 1998. however, the magnitude of the bleaching event that occurred in 2002 in the southern part of the 
island was similar to the 1998 bleaching event (synthesis report 2014). in addition, proliferation in plagues of coral 
predators such as crown of thorns starfish (Acanthaster planci) also damaged the coral reefs significantly.  Such 
plagues are increasingly reported close to large human populations, where there is evidence of over fishing and/
or increases in nutrient runoff from the land. There are more reports of damage to coral reefs from the predatory 
gastropod mollusk, drupella. beside predators, some of the major reefs were observed with massive algal growth  
(halimeda sp) especially in pigeon island and polhena reefs. the spreading of invasive species is now being 
recognized as a major potential threat to the ecological balance of the coral reef. The invasive species, which have 
damaged reefs in the Western part of the country, are suspected of being introduced via the ballast water or hulls of 

<!-- page 47 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
47a
cargo ships or from the ill-informed release of aquarium specimens (synthesis report on Coastal habitats 2014). 
the local drivers of reef degradation and spatial distribution of live coral cover is depicted in t able 3-4 and 3-5
Table 3- 4: The Local drivers of Coral reef degradation
Region Local Drivers Magnitude of destruction
North Western 
silavaturai, arippu, Vankalai and 
bar reef
Destructive fishing high/Very high
Netting on reefs high
sedimentation Low
Over fishing Very high
sea cucumber and chank collection Very high
t ourism/recretaion Low
pollution moderate
Eastern Region
passikudah, Kalkudah, 
punnaikudah, Kayankerni, 
pigeon island, Kuchchaveli
Destructive fishing moderate
Netting on reefs moderate
sedimentation moderate
fishing moderate
sea Cucumber/chank collection high
t ourism/recreational high
pollution high
Northern Region
point pedro, inbarsitty
thondamanaru, Valithoondal, 
Karainagar
pungudativu ,Kayts, delft
Destructive fishing high
Netting on reefs moderate
sedimentation Low
fishing
sea Cucumber/chank collection high
t ourism/recreational Low
pollution Low
Southern Region 
hikkaduwa, rumassala
Weligama, mirissa
polhena
Destructive fishing high
Netting on reefs moderate
sedimentation high
fishing
sea Cucumber/chank collection Low
t ourism/recreational high
pollution high
Source: Concept Note, Based on 1). Global Fund for Coral Reefs IUCN 2023 2) Arulanathan et.al 2021 3) Perera N 2019

<!-- page 48 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
48a
Table 3- 5: The Spatial distribution of Live Coral Cover in the Coastal Regions
Coastal Region Location Live Coral Cover%
Southern Region (2014) hikkaduwa 19.6
rumassala
Weligama 64%
mirissa 50%
polhena 21.5
Eastern Region (2020) Kayankerni, 38%
passikudah, 21%
pigeon island, 59%
adukkuparu, 12%
parrot rock reefs 70%
Northern Region (2021) point pedro 55%
inbarsitty 45%
thondamanaru 46%
Valithoondal 43%
Karainagar 25%
pungudativu 40%
Kayts 25%
delft 15%
Source: 1. Ramawickrama N W et al.  (2020) 2. Arulananthan A et al. (2021)
	 •	 Degradation of Lagoon and Estuarine Ecosystems
  the Lagoons and estuaries are valuable coastal ecosystems in sri Lanka that act as economic drivers by providing 
sources of income for the fisher communities, contained rich bio-diversity and provided anchoring facilities for 
the fishing crafts. For example, the yearly earnings from fisheries in three most productive barriers-built estuaries, 
Negombo, p uttalam and batticaloa alone exceed two billion rupees (s amarakoon J, at el 2012). h owever, the lagoons 
and estuaries and the biodiversity they contained are under heavy stress and confronted profound changes due to 
population growth in the coastal region, pollution due to the inflow of sewage, untreated industrial effluents, urban 
wastes and waste oil, spreading of invasive plant species and climate change repercussions. in the North Western 
coastal belt, lagoons and estuaries are polluted due to discharges from shrimp farms. some of the lagoons/estuaries 
are degraded by coconut husk retting (e.g. madu Ganga estuary, bolgoda estuary), sand mining and anchoring of 
fishing crafts. Other adverse impacts felt are increased siltation due to development activities inland such as irrigation 
schemes, soil disturbance from agriculture, deforestation, mining and construction. the salinity regimes in several 
lagoons/estuaries have been affected by changes in natural flows due to irrigation schemes. This sometimes triggers 
off the growth of invasive plant species such as Najas marina and Salviniamolesta. These ecosystems are also affected 
by indiscriminate harvesting of commercially important species.
  Other issues connected with these ecosystems are the loss of functional lagoon/estuarine water areas due to 
unauthorized encroachment and land reclamation (e.g. Bolgoda and Negombo Estuaries and Mawella and Lunawa 
Lagoons). there has also been a loss of ecological and aesthetic value in some of the estuaries and lagoons  
(e.g. bentota, Negombo and madu Ganga estuaries and the bolgoda Lagoon). all these adverse impacts hamper the 
use of lagoons/estuaries for the fishery, tourism, scientific research and education. This is of concern as, for instance, 
30,000 part-time and full-time fishermen are engaged in the lagoon/estuarine fishery in Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 49 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
49a
  in general, the resources in the majority of the lagoons in sri Lanka remain either satisfactory, somewhat good or 
very good status. Lagoon resources in the mannar district are reported to be in a better condition than the lagoons 
in other coastal districts. however, lagoon resources in the hambantota, Colombo and Galle districts have been 
categorized as “bad” or very bad” (Silva E.I.L. at el 2013).
	 •	 Damage to Sea Grass Beds and Seaweeds
  the current information on the status of sea grass beds in sri Lanka has not been updated in the recent past. however, 
as per the existing information, the sea grass beds in lagoons and around the coral reefs are often damaged due to 
destructive fish harvesting techniques. Trampling or using fishing gear that rakes up sea grass are also damaging. 
push nets and drag nets cause immense damage to sea grass meadows in coastal wetlands (miththapala. s, 2008). 
in sri Lanka, large-scale commercial trawling and drift netting over the sea grass beds that occur between puttalam 
and Jaffna and beach seining in certain sections of the coastline also affect sea grass beds. The reported mass-scale 
poaching in the form of trawling operations by Indian fishermen in the Northern coastal waters also created severe 
damage to the sea grass beds. in certain areas, commercial polycheate harvesting as brood stock feed for shrimp 
hatcheries also causes severe damage to sea grass beds (e.g. Negombo and Chilaw estuaries). Other adverse impacts 
are from siltation resulting from offshore sand mining, land-based activities such as changes in catchment hydrology 
through irrigation schemes. sandbar formation, either through natural causes or those induced by human activity 
may also cause degradation of sea grass beds. damage to sea grass beds in sri Lanka due to 2004 tsunami has been 
reported as a minor incident (faO 2007). in addition, higher water temperatures related to climate change also will 
directly effect on the growth, reproduction and general metabolism of sea grases (Miththapala. S, 2008).
	 •	 Damage and Destruction of Mangrove Areas
  the mangrove ecosystems are currently gradually threatened by numerous anthropogenic activities. these include 
deforestation, encroachment, conversion of mangrove ecosystems to human settlements, aquaculture projects, land 
reclamation and tourism related projects.
 
  in the recent past, a substantial damage to the mangrove swamps, especially those located in the Northern and 
Western provinces in the country has been caused by the conversion of large extent of mangrove areas to shrimp 
farms and salterns. in addition, lowland agriculture, housing construction and expansion of human settlements also 
contributed in a significant manner to damage the mangrove areas. The mangroves associated with Negombo Lagoon 
environment diminished to 253 ha in 2010 indicating loss of nearly 100 ha over a period of 20 years, due to man 
induced causes (Kasige at el 2012, emL). in the North Western province, loss of mangroves occurred primarily 
because of the expansion of shrimp farms, but smaller-scale losses have also taken place due to the expansion of 
human settlements and industries. By and large, there has been a significant reduction in the mangrove cover between 
1986 and 2009, largely due to human interventions. t here is also an overuse of mangrove resources. for example, the 
extraction of poles and wood for domestic use and twigs for brush pile fishery is beyond sustainable levels. Mangrove 
ecosystems are also degraded by water pollution and siltation. in addition to man-induced causes, natural causes 
such as tsunamis and the spreading of invasive species also damaged the mangroves in the recent past. as a result 
of the 2004 tsunami event, large patches of mangroves have been destroyed in Valachenai, akkaraipattu, sallitivu, 
Vaharai and panama coastal segments. invasive alien species such as annona glabera, t ypha angustifolia, salvinia 
molesta, pistia stratiotis and Naja marina also created a negative impact on the mangrove ecosystems (synthesis 
report on Coastal habitats, 2014).
  A several government and non-government organizations including, Department of Forest, Coast Conservation and 
Coastal resource management department  are involved in rehabilitation and restoration programmes for a long 
period, majority of the planting attempts have been failed and urge to protect existing mangrove forests (sri Lanka 
forester 2022). accordingly, by 2019, seventeen mangrove forests had been declared by the dfC while twelve 
declared  by the dWC.
	 •	 Destruction of Salt Marshes
  salt marshes mainly occur in regions where the dry season is prolonged as in the North, North West, North east 
and south east of the country. salt marshes provide many vital ecological functions including resting and feeding 

<!-- page 50 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
50a
areas for migrant and resident wildlife (synthesis report on Coastal habitats 2014). the salt marshes have been 
reduced quite considerably in the puttalam district where they have been converted for establishing shrimp farms 
and salterns. it is reported that the extent converted was nearly 2,960 ha between 1986 and 2002. dayaratna et al 
1997 reported that about 50 % of the salt marshes around the puttalam Lagoon area have been lost within a - 10 
year period (1981-1992) largely on account of shrimp farms. the salt marshes located in the eastern province have 
been subjected to pollution from wastewater, chemicals from agriculture and industrial activities, sewage and solid 
waste (synthesis report on Coastal habitats 2014).
  The salt marshes located in the Northern Region, especially in the Mannar District were unaffected during the last 
three decades due to the conflict situation that prevailed in the areas. Unlike the other coastal ecosystems, the absence 
of proper environmental valuation of the salt marshes has created an ambiguous status about the usage.
	 •	 Degradation of Sand Dunes, Barrier Beaches and Sand Spits
  the degradation of sand dunes, barrier beaches and sand spits in sri Lanka is mainly due to encroachments for 
the construction of dwellings, expansion of human settlements, siting of hotels and related infrastructure and 
transformation to agricultural lands for cultivation of coconut, chili, onion and other crops. Consequently, the littoral 
woodland zone, which typically has a thick growth of shrubs and low tree species is now greatly reduced in many 
areas. it is also evident in some areas of the southern and eastern Coasts that some beaches and spits, as well as 
mangroves, have been lost due to impacts of floods, tsunami (2004) cyclones and sea erosion.
  this problem has been aggravated by coral mining, improperly sited coastal structures and sand mining on beaches 
and in the rivers. another problem is that beaches are treated as dumping grounds for solid waste, particularly in urban 
areas. beaches are also polluted due to accumulation of tar balls formed when bilge waters from ships get washed 
ashore as reported from Wadduwa to Mirissa on the Western and Southern Coasts. (This may also adversely affect 
other coastal ecosystems such as coral reefs and sea grases). in some coastal areas (e.g. batticaloa and hambantota 
Districts), exotic plant species have been introduced for beach and dune stabilization and concerns have been expressed 
of their adverse effects. The main beaches along the Southern Coast from Kosgoda to Palatupana, Palaitivu Islands 
on the Northern Coast and Arugam Bay on the Eastern Coast provide nesting sites for five turtle species that come 
ashore for nesting. these ecosystems are getting degraded at a rapid rate due to indiscriminate allocation of land 
for the construction of hotels, the proliferation of slums and shanties, incorrect siting of tourist facilities and ribbon 
development.
 3.2.2  Climate Change Repercussions and Importance of conserving coastal ecosystems
  the coastal environment and its ecosystems are changing more rapidly and more broadly  in the country than ever 
before due to both human-induced and natural causes. Climate change-related factors have been identified as major 
potential factors leading to changes in the composition, biodiversity and quality of coastal ecosystems. the climate 
change repercussions could be clearly seen from the nature and extent of the sensitive and fragile coastal ecosystems 
such as coral reefs and sea grass beds exist today.
  despite potential stress due to climate change, conserving coral reefs, sea grass beds, mangroves and other coastal 
ecosystems is of paramount importance in confronting climate change challenges for several reasons;
 • Carbon Sequestration: Coastal ecosystems such as mangroves and seagrass beds are highly effective at sequestering 
carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. they store large amounts of carbon in their biomass and sediment, helping to 
mitigate climate change by reducing greenhouse gas concentrations.
 • Coastal Protection: Coral reefs, mangroves, and seagrass beds serve as natural barriers against coastal erosion and 
storm surges. they help protect coastal communities from the increasing frequency and intensity of extreme weather 
events associated with climate change.
 • Biodiversity Hotspots: These ecosystems are home to a diverse range of plant and animal species. Preserving their 
biodiversity is crucial for maintaining the resilience of ecosystems and ensuring the survival of numerous species, 
some of which may be essential to huma n food security and livelihoods.

<!-- page 51 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
51a
 • Fisheries and Livelihoods: Coastal ecosystems support fisheries by providing breeding grounds and habitat for fish 
and other marine species. many coastal communities rely on these ecosystems for their livelihoods and sustenance. 
The decline of these habitats can lead to reduced fish stocks and economic hardships for coastal populations.
 • Tourism and Recreation: Coral reefs, in particular, attract tourists from around the world. They contribute significantly 
to the tourism industry, which is vital for the economy. as these ecosystems degrade, so does their attractiveness to 
tourists, impacting local economies.
 • Water Quality and Nutrient Cycling: Mangroves and seagrass beds help improve water quality by filtering pollutants 
and trapping sediments. they also play a role in nutrient cycling, which is essential for maintaining the health of 
coastal waters.
 • Adaptation to Sea-Level Rise: Coastal ecosystems can adapt to rising sea levels by building up their own elevation 
through sedimentation and root growth. they provide a natural means of adapting to the impacts of sea-level rise, 
helping to protect coastal communities and infrastructure.
 • Resilience to Ocean Acidification: Coral reefs, although vulnerable to ocean acidification, can benefit from improved 
water quality and reduced stressors when other coastal ecosystems are conserved. this can enhance their resilience 
to changing ocean conditions.
 • Scientific Research: These ecosystems are valuable sites for scientific research, providing insights into the impacts 
of climate change on marine ecosystems and potential mitigation strategies.
 • Cultural and Spiritual Significance: Many coastal communities have deep cultural and spiritual connections to these 
ecosystems. preserving them is essential for maintaining cultural heritage and the well-being of these communities.
 3.2.3  undervalued Coastal Ecosystems
  the actual economic values of the coastal ecosystems are not comprehensively estimated yet. thus, there is a tendency 
to underestimate the total economic value of the coastal ecosystems when siting development activities within the 
Coastal Zone. Given the rapid development taking place in the coastal region in the areas of road development, 
commercial and fisheries harbour development, reclamation and island development, and coastal tourism, it is 
important to incorporate environmental valuation in the decision-making process. in this respect, attention has to be 
carefully paid on potential ecosystem services , including carbon sequestration, coastal protection, fisheries support, 
tourism revenue, and cultural significance.
 3.2.4 Conservation and Sustainable Development
  The aftermath of the 2004 tsunami and the thirty years of the conflict situation that prevailed in the country, the 
requirement of rapid economic development, the enhancement of the per capita income level was considered the 
most priority condition. Hence, the GOSL has planned development of five economic hubs, where two hubs namely 
maritime and tourism are located in the coastal region. With the major development thrust directed on coastal region, 
negative impacts on the coastal habitats are inevitable. thus, the balancing of conservation needs with the economic 
development requirements have to be carried out in a more realistic manner emphasizing total economic value of 
the coastal ecosystems. in compliance with the current economic attempt being applied by the GOsL on skipping 
from the middle-income trap, much emphasis has to be placed on conservation needs and mitigatory measures, when 
using the coastal areas.
 3.3 ADDRESSING ECOSYSTEM CONSER v ATION 
 3.3.1 Policies, Plans, Laws and Institutional Arrangements
  Current rate of depletion and degradation of coastal ecosystems in the country highlights the requirement of 
conservation and adaptive management. the management of coastal ecosystems in a comprehensive and holistic 

<!-- page 52 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
52a
manner was initiated by the CC&Crmd through the formulation and implementation of Coastal Zone management 
plans of 1990, 1997, 2004 and 2018. the policy arena with respect to ecosystem management initiatives was further 
strengthened through “Coastal 2000: r ecommendations for a r esource management strategy for sri Lanka’s Coastal 
region” produced in 1992. these initiatives led to the formulation and adoption of several management strategies 
covering regulation, education and awareness creation, planning and policy development, monitoring, research and 
coordination. Conservation of coastal and marine ecosystems and their biodiversity are also addressed in the National 
biodiversity Conservation action plan implemented by the ministry of environment and Natural resources. the 
legal provisions in the Coast Conservation act No 57 of 1981 and its subsequent amendments No: 64 of 1988 and 
No.49 of 2011 also promote the conservation of coastal ecosystems through regulatory measures. the expansion of 
the legally defined Coastal Zone through the 2011 amendments to the Act covering the riparian land of the coastal 
water bodies has placed more emphasis on conserving the coastal ecosystems through the regulatory process.
  The National Strategy and Action Plan published by the IUCN, Sri Lanka Office for the National Steering Committee 
of the “mangrove for the future” programme, sri Lanka, proposes an eco-system based on integrated Coastal 
management in sri Lanka. this is based on an evaluation of the 30-year record of coastal management in sri Lanka, 
and postulates, “a more systematic approach is perceived to be imperative”. Whilst some of the recommendations 
that can be accommodated within the current legal mandate of the CC&Crmd have been included in this plan, a 
shift to ecosystem-based integrated coastal management would require a major reorientation of the CC&Crm act 
which would in turn depend on the official acceptance of the proposed strategy and action plan at the highest levels 
of policy-making.
Table 3- 6: Key Management Strategies of CC&CRMD for Coastal Ecosystem Conservation
regulatory
•	 banning of all activities pertaining to sea coral mining
•	 permits from CC&Crmd made mandatory for all development 
activities in the Coastal Zone
•	 expansion of Coastal Zone covering riparian land of the coastal 
water bodies
•	 Legal provisions introduced to declare
“Conservation Areas” And “Affected Areas”
education and a wareness
•	 dissemination of knowledge through printed  materials on 
the value of coastal ecosystems and issues pertaining to them
•	 Inclusion of facts about problems affecting coastal ecosystems into 
the secondary school curriculum
•	 Conducting awareness programmes on different coastal ecosystems 
for school children, teachers and key stakeholders.
planning and policy development
•	 Conservation of coastal ecosystems through special management 
area (sma) plans in selected sites
•	 Institutionalization of SMA process
monitoring •	 implementing a monitoring programme on coral and sand mining
research •	 supporting research on coral reefs and mangroves
Co-ordination
•	 at the national level: Coast Conservation advisory Council
•	 at the local level: the Coast Conservation and Coastal 
resource management Coordinating Committee, steering 
Committees and sma  Community Coordinating Committees 
(CCCs)
Supported through other organizations.
 
 Source: CC&CRMD 2023

<!-- page 53 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
53a
 3.3.2  Institutional Mechanisms and Key Initiatives
  there are several ministries, government departments and other agencies that are responsible for the conservation 
and management of coastal ecosystems. the CC&Crmd, ministry of fisheries and aquatic resources, ministry 
of environment, department of Wildlife Conservation (dWLC), forest department, National aquatic resources 
research and d evelopment a gency (Nara ), Central environmental a uthority (Cea ), m arine environment 
protection agency (mepa) and the Urban development authority (Uda) are among such agencies. each has a 
specific role to play in the conservation and management of various coastal ecosystems. In addition, the coastal 
provincial Councils also should play a key role in managing coastal ecosystems in their respective provinces. the 
activities of the irrigation and agriculture departments also have major impacts on coastal ecosystems, as do the 
activities of the respective Provincial Councils, Pradeshiya Sabhas and Divisional Secretariat Offices.
 3.3.3  Future Trends in Management Practices
  attempts at adopting an integrated approach to management of coastal ecosystems in the past indicated a need 
for closer co-ordination among institutions that have jurisdiction over various coastal resources. future strategies 
for conservation and rational management of coastal ecosystems should take due cognizance of the constraints 
encountered in the past. the management measures adopted by the CC&Crmd in respect of coastal ecosystems 
have relied considerably on regulatory initiatives. strengthening institutional integration and community participation 
should receive high priority, since they have been identified as the weak links in implementing coastal resources 
management plans. Community participation is vital to resolve user conflicts encountered in different ecosystems, 
and  sma  initiatives should be adopted as a tool where possible to promote community participation in dealing with 
specific coastal ecosystems and the various issues connected with them.
  the adoption of an integrated approach is required for law enforcement and the implementation of recommendations 
in other action/management plans pertaining to coastal ecosystems (e.g. the biodiversity Conservation action plan 
prepared by the ministry dealing with the environment). there should also be adequate institutional coordination 
and cooperation in the preparation of all Coastal resources management plans. for instance, integrated coastal 
ecosystem management involves close links with watershed management thus all agencies in the relevant discipline 
should get involved in the management process. it is also extremely important to ensure that development activities 
are regulated through appropriate procedures to address the crucial issue of coastal pollution. public awareness 
creation is also considered an effective tool for  ecosystem conservation. Therefore, adequate emphasis has to be 
given in this respect in future management practices.
  Future approaches for coastal ecosystem management should also be geographically specific and based on well-
explained links between human activities and changes within the natural systems. the overall management objectives 
with respect to coastal  ecosystems in the future should be to ensure the sustainable management of coastal ecosystems 
and for the preservation and enrichment of their natural features. achieving this requires addressing the issues 
pertaining to each ecosystem separately in view of their specific characteristics and requirements. Care has to be 
taken to ensure that all policies and actions for the conservation of coastal ecosystems comply with the National 
physical development plan, the National environmental action plan and the National biodiversity Conservation 
action plan and other national planning initiatives. it is important to implement coastal ecosystem management 
on a prioritized basis as some ecosystems are faced with severe threats that require immediate attention. While no 
attempt has, however, been made to prioritize coastal ecosystems for management action in this document, this 
could be an important aspect to be addressed in implementing the CZmp . in the preparation of plans, especially for 
the smas, care should be taken so that the linkage between the individual habitat and the ecosystem unit in which 
they are nested is considered.
 3.3.4 Climate Change Adaptation – Conservation of Bio-diversity  
  As per the Updated NDC implementation Plan 2021-2030, biodiversity sector has been identified as one of 
the major sectors for climate change adaptation. In this respect, it has identified both terrestrial and coastal 
habitat loss, fragmentation, and degradation; overexploitation of biological resources; extinction of traditional 
crop and livestock varieties, and breeds; pollution; conflicts between people and wildlife; the rapid spread of 

<!-- page 54 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
54a
alien invasive species; and rising human population density as major threats. further, leading contributing 
factors for habitat loses have been recognized as land use changes in forests, ad hoc wetlands reclamation, 
uncontrolled use of coastal areas, landfills in wetlands, and deforestation. Accordingly,  the following main 
activities have been identified for implementation during 2021-2030 by the key agency and other relevant 
agencies including CC&Crmd under the NdC implementation plan (2021-2030) for biodiversity sector.  
Table 3- 7 NDCs of Biodiversity Sector
•	 management of climate-sensitive areas and restoration of degraded areas inside and outside the protected areas 
(pas) network to conserve habitats that are highly vulnerable to climate change
•	 Increase connectivity in  the zones that will  be subjected to climate-driven changes according to current predic-
tions through landscape approaches
•	 expansion of pa  extent to enhance the ability of the pa  network to function as a buffer for climate change
•	 strengthen ex-situ conservation programmes covering climate-vulnerable taxa and regions
•	 Effective management of the spread of Invasive Alien Species (IAS) triggered by favorable climate conditions
Source: Ministry of Environment, NDC Implementation Plan 2021-2030, (2023)
  In order to address the future requirements for coastal ecosystem conservation, this chapter has identified a range of 
actions after analysis of the gaps in interventions adopted in the past as well as the current management requirements. 
Specific conservation issues have been identified for each ecosystem and the policies, strategies and actions required 
to remedy these situations are provided accordingly in view of their present status and associated uses.
 3.4 NON-LIvING COASTAL RESOuRCES
  A variety of environmentally and economically significant non-living coastal resources are existence within the coastal 
region in the country. these non-living coastal resources constitute sand, gravel, rocks, minerals, and other materials 
found along the coastal zone are of significant extent and economically significant.
  the country’s coastline is abundant with sandy beaches, making sand and gravel some of the most common non-living 
coastal resources. Beside near shore and offshore areas, physically and spatially, the sand resources are existed in the 
form of beaches, spits, dunes and several other features in the coastal zone. The volume of sand available within the 
coastline determines the stability of the beaches and provide habitat for turtle and other marine life. in addition, sand 
extracting from the coastal zone being used as a material for creation of additional buffers, coastal reclamation, filling, 
infrastructure development, and the manufacturing of concrete and other building materials despite restrictions imposed 
by the CC&Crmd.
  apart from sand, other non-living coastal resources contain various types of rocks and minerals, including limestone, 
granite, and mineral sands. the rich deposits of mineral sands located within the coastal region include ilmenite, rutile, 
zircon, monazite and garnet. These minerals have industrial applications, especially in the production of ceramics, 
paints, and alloys. 
  in terms of spatial distribution, heavy-mineral-rich beach sands extend along the shore about 8 km south from Kokkilai 
Lagoon and they extend about 370 m. landward. the 72-km-long stretch of beach in N ortheastern sri Lanka may 
represent the richest deposit of heavy-mineral sands in the world. according to the mineral composition, ilmenite 
(fet iO2) and rutile (t iO2) are found in large concentrations in the pulmoddai beach sand deposit area. moreover, 
several other beach mineral-sand deposits of monazite, zircon, garnet and ilmenite are also found in various parts of 
the island.

<!-- page 55 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
55a
  as per the literature, beach deposits on the northeastern coast of sri Lanka have some of the highest concentrations 
of heavy minerals in the world. Currently, ilmenite, rutile, and zircon are extracted mainly from the beach sand along 
the north east coast. In addition, the beach sand also comprised of commercially valuable sillimanite, monazite and 
garnet. Monazite composes 0.3 percent of the heavy mineral fraction. In some locations, contain of the heavy minerals 
has been reported as much as 90 percent of the sand deposits, similarly, ilmenite forms  65 percent of the composition 
while rutile forms 10 percent and zircon forms 10 percent  respectively (Lanka Minerals Sands Limited, 2013). 
  It is reported that Monazite-bearing alluvium exist in southwestern Sri Lanka. The stream sediments of the Bentota River, 
have been described as “one of the world’s most thorium-rich sediments” (rupasinghe and others, 1983). although 
there are no commercial operations reported, considerable amount of monazite moves with other heavy minerals 
through bentota river and deposited in seasonal beach sand deposits extending from beruwala south to Kikawala 
beach, covering 12 km beach stretch along the coast,  deposits of ilmenite-rich sands are also known to exist along 
the northwestern coast of sri Lanka (murphy and frick, 2006). however, published descriptions of these deposits are 
lacking.
 3.4.1  Management of Non-Living Coastal Resources
  the management of non-living coastal resources, such as minerals, sand, and infrastructure, is essential for sustainable 
coastal development and the conservation of coastal ecosystems. In view of the dynamic nature of coastal zone and 
the requirement of economic needs of the country, management strategies focused on non-living resources must be 
carefully design to ensure sustainable use while conserving the health of the coastal ecosystems.
 3.4.2 Sustainable Development Opportunities in the Coastal Resources
 
sustainable development of coastal resources is crucial to ensure the long-term well-being of both the environment 
and the people who depend on these resources for their livelihoods. the coastal areas of the country are rich in 
biodiversity and provide essential ecosystem services, such as fisheries, tourism, and protection from coastal erosion. 
however, they are also vulnerable to various natural and man induced threats, including overexploitation, pollution, 
and climate change.
  t o ensure sustainable development of coastal resources in the country, requires a holistic and long-term approach that 
balances economic development with ecological preservation. it also demands the active participation of government 
agencies, local communities, NGOs, and other stakeholders to ensure the protection and responsible use of these 
invaluable natural resources.
  t he key management strategies and vital consideration for sustainable development of coastal resources must mainly 
rely on adoption of integrated Coastal management approach for balancing economic development with conservation 
of coastal environment. this approach needs to focus on coordinated planning and management of land and water 
resources in the coastal zone to achieve social, economic and environmental objectives.  
  In addition, sustainable fisheries management should be ensured by curtailing overfishing and destructive fishing 
practices, implementing quotas, size limits, and seasonal closures to ensure the long-term viability of fish stocks. 
m oreover, s pecial m anagement a rea (sma s) and or m arine p rotected a reas (mpa s) has to be established to ensure 
effectively management and  to safeguard biodiversity, enhance fisheries, and promote sustainable tourism. MPAs 
can serve as living laboratories for studying and preserving marine ecosystems.
  implementation of  strict regulations to control pollution from industrial, agricultural, and urban sources is vital for 
conserving coastal ecosystems.  development and implementation of strategies to adapt to the impacts of climate 
change, including rising sea levels, increased storm intensity, and ocean acidification is necessary to ensure sustainable 
management of ecosystems. this may involve building resilient infrastructure, relocating vulnerable communities, 
and implementing sustainable coastal engineering solution s.

<!-- page 56 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
56a
 3.5  MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION OF COASTAL RESOuRCES
  the pertinent line agencies (Nara, dWC, Gs&mb, Las, etc.) working in connection with coastal resources must take 
into account the rules and regulations of the Coast Conservation and Coastal resource m anagement a ct, management 
guidelines, management objectives, policies, strategies, and actions included in the Coast Conservation and Coastal 
resource management plan when they are creating and updating their own rules, regulations, management and 
conservation guidelines, recommendations, and documents relevant to coastal resources. if it is not protected by the 
CC&Crm  act, it must be updated with the required   measures. in order to determine whether the aforementioned 
requirements have been incorporated into the management plans and conservation policies of these line agencies, 
the Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department will undertake follow-up investigations to 
ensure effective institutional coordination for management.
  moreover, some coastal resources are being managed by various line agencies, including, National Water supply 
and drainage board (NWsdb) , dOi, forest department and others. if certain activities extend beyond the coastal 
zone, special consideration should be given by the respective agencies to how they will affect coastal resources (for 
example, the estuary at the river’s mouth).
 3.6 MANAGEMENT OBJECTIvES, POLICIES, STRATEGIES AND   ACTIONS
Objective 1
  Coral reefs are conserved to enhance biodiversity, non-extractive values, provide barrier against coastal hazards such 
as erosion, tsunami, and storm surges, permit sustainable use of bio-resources, and sustain fisheries and other economic 
activities.
Policy 1.1
  the degradation and depletion of coral reefs quantitatively and qualitatively due to human-induced activities within 
and outside the Coastal Zone will be minimized.
Strategy 1.1.1
  Enforce existing legislations and regulations effectively to minimize/eradicate damage to and destruction of coral reefs 
through huma n-induced activities.
Proposed Actions
 1. Continue to enforce existing laws/regulations to prevent the degradation of coral ecosystems.
 2. Continue implementation of the provisions of the Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management act against 
sea coral mining to improve current conditions more effectively.
 3. Assist relevant authorities in controlling the mining of inland corals and to minimize negative impacts.
 4. Continue awareness creation programmes for identified target groups such as coral-based lime users, coastal dwellers, 
ornamental fish collectors, fishermen, tour guides, and glass-bottom boat operators on laws/regulations relevant to 
preventing damage to coral reefs.
Strategy 1.1.2
  promote the use of alternative sources of lime to meet the requirements of the construction industry and agriculture.

<!-- page 57 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
57a
Proposed Actions
 1. provide appropriate publicity for the uses of alternative substitutes and construction technology for coral-based lime 
to enable to conservation of coral reefs.
 2. encourage and advocate for introducing market instruments to promote the use of substitutes for coral-based lime 
among different user groups.
 3. Continue implementation of the policy on the restriction of the use of coral-based lime in state construction works.
Policy 1.2
 
  mainstream concerns regarding climate change and other natural events into management of coral reefs where possible.
Strategy 1.2.1
  implement. recommended policy guidelines under climate change adaptation for coral reefs.
Proposed Actions
 1. facilitate and support monitoring activities conducted on the status and trends of the health of the Coral reefs by 
Nara.
 2. Assist implementation of related identified activities under NDC Implementation Plan 2021-2030.
 3. Carry out appropriate action to improve the post-event coastal environment to facilitate fast recovery of coral reef 
ecosystems.
 4. develop and implement strategies to help coral reefs adapt to changing conditions, such as assisted evolution and the 
cultivation of more heat-tolerant coral strains
Policy 1.3
  The biodiversity of coral reefs will be conserved/enhanced through adherence to sustainable fishery management 
practices.
Strategy 1.3.1
  Prevent/minimize through appropriate management practices, over-exploitation of reef organisms such as aquarium 
fish, lobsters, chank, sea cucumber etc.
Proposed Actions
 1. Encourage and facilitate continuation of implementation of the recommendation related to fish stock assessment 
conducted by DFAR/NARA on lobsters, chanks, ornamental fish and sea cucumber.
 2. Monitor effectiveness of implementation of guidelines and regulations enforced by DFAR on fish stocks.
 3. support implementation of actions proposed in the biodiversity Conservation action plan as relevant for conservation 
of coral reef associated biodiversity.
Policy 1.4
  Management initiatives including scientific research relevant to coral reef restoration/rehabilitation and     conservation 
will be promoted.

<!-- page 58 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
58a
Strategy 1.4.1
  promote and support coral reef surveys and restoration through collaborative research on these ecosystems and their 
resources and promote measures for sharing/effective dissemination of information.
Proposed Actions
 1. Conduct survey to determine actual extent, status and value of coral reef ecosystems associated with the coastal waters 
of sri Lanka.
 2. identify and disseminate information regarding priority sites for coral restoration, and the methods and the technology 
for reef restoration.
 3. initiate a programme in collaboration with local /foreign funding organisations and research institutions/universities 
to replant with community participation, corals in areas where heavy destruction of corals is evident with community 
participation.
 4.  initiate a mechanism to enhance capacity and promote collaborative research on coral reef organisms that could enhance 
quality of life (e.g. organisms of medicinal value).
 5. Promote investigations on development of starfish population on spatial basis and carry out a ‘Crown of Thorns’ starfish 
(acanthasterplancii) eradication programme.
 6. assist Nara  to regularly update the meta-data base developed on corals and establish an inter-institutional meta-
database on coral reefs and establish a mechanism to provide access to this information.
 7. improve socio-economic data collection on reef resource uses to facilitate management of reef harvesting and other 
uses.
Policy 1.5
  management of tourism, recreational and other development activities associated with coral reefs shall ensure the health 
of the coral reefs.
Strategy 1.5.1
  Manage tourism and other development activities to minimize negative impacts on coral reefs and the resources they 
contain through collaborative measures.
Proposed Actions
 1. Promote sustainable and responsible tourism practices to minimize physical damage to coral reefs and educate visitors 
about their importance
 2. promote participation of private entrepreneurs in managing coral reefs located in the respective tourism development 
areas with required community participation.
 3. Control discharges and sedimentation from development activities through regulatory measures (permits, epL, eia/
iee) in collaboration with relevant agencies.
 4. enhance livelihoods of the coastal communities through non-extractive uses of the coral reefs in tourism areas in 
collaboration with the  private sector involvement.

<!-- page 59 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
59a
 5.  initiate community surveillance programmes with DWC to minimize negative impacts on coral reefs related to tourism, 
recreation and fisheries activities.
 6. initiate collaborative programmes with hotels/t ourist board to provide interpretative facilities in hotels in areas with 
potential for coral reef viewing to increase enjoyment of the resource and for conservation.
 7. promote awareness among tourists and tour guides on the conservation status of reefs and reef organisms through 
collaborative programmes with the t ourist board, hotels and tour operators, Customs and airport authorities.
 8. Coordinate and support customized training programmes and reference material to assist with identifying coral reef 
organisms prohibited for export for relevant state officials.
 9. promote and conduct coral reef transplantation programme in coral reef degraded areas with the assistance of Nara, 
universities, and associated communities.
Objective 2
  Lagoons and estuaries are conserved to sustain and enhance ecological functions, and promote socio-economic activities 
and non-extractive values while maintaining resource sustainability.
Policy 2.1
  the degradation of estuaries and lagoons due to man-induced causes and development activities within and outside 
the Coastal Zone will be minimized/eradicated.
Strategy 2.1.1
  Minimize the discharge of untreated industrial effluents and sewage into estuaries /lagoons through monitoring and 
enforcing compliance with existing regulations and guidelines.
Proposed Actions
 1. expand the existing coastal water quality monitoring programme of the CC&Crmd covering lagoons and estuaries to 
determine the impacts of industrial effluents (including effluents from shrimp farms) and sewage discharged into them.
 2. initiate and implement or support existing programmes in collaboration with Local authorities and other relevant 
agencies to develop mitigatory measures to minimise adverse impacts of industrial pollution and curtail direct discharge 
of sewage from dwellings into lagoons and estuaries.
 3. formulate a compliance monitoring programme to ensure that all industries within the Coastal Zone adhere to the 
conditions/guidelines imposed through development permits, epL and eia/iee.
 4. Implement existing provisions of the relevant legal enactment to curtail, pollutant discharges into lagoons effectively.
Policy 2.2
  Lagoons and estuary mouths/outlets and adjacent banks will be managed based on sound scientific information.
Strategy 2.1.2
  Minimize reduction of functional area of lagoons and estuaries due to encroachments, reclamation, removal of vegetation 
and other develop ment activities.

<!-- page 60 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
60a
Proposed Actions
 1. survey and demarcate the boundaries of the lagoons and estuaries with the assistance of relevant agencies.
 2. implement development permit procedures to control development activities covering riparian land and the water area 
lying within the coastal zone.
 3. adopt legal provisions of the CC&Crma  on sma  to control development activities associated with the lagoons and 
estuaries.
 4. enforce prevailing regulatory measures against encroachments and reclamation.
Policy 2.3
  The economic, ecological, and social values of estuaries and lagoons will be recognized and enhanced.
Strategy 2.3.1
  promote sustainable management of resources in estuaries and lagoons through eco-system service valuation and with 
community participation.
Proposed Actions
 1. Prepare ecosystem service valuation model for selected politically, economically significant barrier built estuaries 
(Negombo and puttalam).
 2. Ensure that the fishery in estuaries/lagoons is at sustainable levels by regulating gear, methods and effort.
 3. formulate programme to promote the use of the ecological, aesthetic and recreational value of estuaries/lagoons and 
their natural environs with the relevant stakeholders while maintaining the sustainability of the resources.
 4. encourage and assist to implement the relevant recommendations of the National biodiversity Conservation action 
plan implemented by the ministry of environment.
 5.  study the impacts of sand bar formation/removal on selected estuaries/lagoons and identify measures to mitigate adverse 
effects.
Strategy 2.3.2
  Minimize changes in estuarine/lagoon environments from adverse impacts of water diversion and irrigation schemes 
through collaborative programmes.
Proposed Actions
 1. Develop a mechanism to integrate lagoon and estuary management with watershed management to minimize pollution/
siltation/salinity changes caused by upstream development activities, including irrigation works.
 2. study the impacts of water diversion/irrigation on selected estuaries/lagoons and identify measures to mitigate adverse 
effects.
Objective 3
  sea grass beds are conserved to sustain ecological functions and socio-economic values.

<!-- page 61 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
61a
Policy 3.1
  Direct and indirect damage to sea grass beds from activities will be minimized.
Strategy 3.1.1
  minimise negative impacts of activities that damage sea grass beds through existing regulatory measures with relevant 
agencies.
Proposed Actions
 1. Enforce existing regulatory measures to prevent pollution, sand mining, destructive fishing methods and other activities 
that damage sea grass beds.
 2. implement eia/iee procedures to avert potential negative impacts of dredging and mining in the coastal waters.
 
Policy 3.2
  research and community awareness on sea grass beds in sri Lankan waters will be promoted.
Strategy 3.2.1
  i nitiate inter agency collaborative research and monitoring and awareness programmes that will help enhance management 
of sea grass beds.
Proposed Actions
 1. initiate programme to carry out systematic mapping of critically threatened sea grass beds in sri Lankan waters.
 2. declare vulnerable/threatened sea grass beds as conservation areas under the provisions of the CC&Crma.
 3. Initiate a programme to study the adverse effects of catchment hydrology and sand bar formation on sea grass beds and 
propose management measures.
 4. Carry out public outreach programme on conservation of sea grass beds and associated habitats ecosystems among 
target groups.
 5. address, the conservation of seagrass meadows in the lagoons through the sma  process.
Objective 4
  mangrove ecosystems are conserved and managed to maintain biodiversity, and sustain ecosystem services and socio-
economic activities.
Policy 4.1
  Depletion and degradation of mangroves due to unplanned development activities will be prevented /minimized.
Strategy 4.1.1
  formulate and impleme nt programme to prevent or minimize damage to mangrove systems.

<!-- page 62 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
62a
Proposed Actions
 
 1. Identify vulnerable mangrove areas where management is urgently needed, and prioritize for conservation.
 2. declare conservation areas based on the priority list with the assistance of forest department.
 3. Implement activities identified under the NDC implementation Plan related to Mangroves
 4. Formulate guidelines for mangrove replanting schemes to rehabilitate identified degraded mangrove areas.
 5. regulate new development activities in mangrove areas through eia/iee procedures and permits.
  
 6. introduce a monitoring mechanism to identify the adverse impacts of present and future development activities within 
mangrove ecosystems and formulate suitable mitigatory measures.
 7.  identify suitable sites where sustainable extraction of mangrove resources can be permitted, and formulate and implement 
guidelines for such uses.
Policy 4.2
  the sustainable use of mangrove resources connected with economic activities will be supported.
Strategy 4.2.1
  support and promote sustainable management of mangroves for economic activities through agency collaboration and 
community participation.
Proposed Actions
 1. promote private entrepreneurs to establish ecotourism projects in suitable areas with community participation.
 2.  identify non–destructive uses of mangrove resources at community level and disseminate such information to 
stakeholders.
 3. establish a suitable mechanism to ensure inter-agency coordination and participation to promote sustainable use of 
mangrove resources.
 4. formulate and implement programmes through sma  process to ensure sustainable use of mangroves.
Policy 4.3
  protect mangroves within the Coastal Zone in compliance with the existing legal provisions.
Strategy 4.3.1
  encourage and promote enforcement of legal provisions to protect mangroves within the Coastal Zone.
Proposed Actions
 1. formulate and implement education and awareness programmes on the prevailing legal provisions among stakeholder 
groups.
 2. encourage community participation in obtaining information on contraventions of the legal provisions.

<!-- page 63 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
63a
Policy 4.4 
  promote conservation and enhancement of mangrove ecosystems to enable an increase in blue carbon sequestration 
ensuring sustainable livelihoods and protecting coastal ecosystems   
Strategy 4.4.1: 
  formulate and implement the multifaceted program with stakeholder participation constituting  research, monitoring, 
and effective coordination mechanism
 
Proposed Actions:
 1. establish a research program to study blue carbon ecosystems, focusing on carbon sequestration rates, biodiversity 
benefits, and ecosystem services to minimize climate change repercussions and ensure sustainable coastal livelihoods
 2. Promote technological innovation, including remote sensing and GIS, for effective ecosystem monitoring and 
management
Strategy 4.4.2:  
  develop and implement a mangrove restoration/ enhancement programme while ensuring community engagement, 
and establishing a sustainable financial mechanism.
Proposed Actions:
 1.  Launch large and medium-scale restoration projects targeting degraded mangrove areas and replanting new areas
 2. develop public education and awareness programs to highlight the importance of blue carbon ecosystems and engage 
local communities in conservation efforts.
 3.  promote the implementation of blue carbon initiatives targeting mangroves through special management areas 
 4.  Establish sustainable financial mechanisms to support conservation and restoration projects, in collaboration with 
public, private, and international sources
 5.  foster strong international partnerships and collaborative projects targeting blue carbon ecosystems
Objective 5
  barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes are conserved to sustain ecological functions and socio-economic and aesthetic 
values.
 
Policy 5.1
  Coastal development activities that degrade barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes will be regulated.
Strategy 5.1.1
  Minimize adverse impacts of development activities on barrier beaches, spits and dunes through regulatory measures 
and the establishment of dune protection Lines (dpLs).

<!-- page 64 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
64a
Proposed Actions
 1. declare barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes located in front of low-lying areas as Critical Zones and control all 
activities detrimental to these declared areas.
 2. declare and implement siting criteria for new development activities close to barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes.
 3. make eias mandatory for siting new development in or in close proximity to barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes 
where necessary in areas outside the Coastal Zone.
 4. enhance co-ordination with relevant agencies to ensure compliance of all regulations pertaining to new development 
in or in close proximity to barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes.
 5. Collaborate with concerned organisations to prevent allocation of crown land adjoining barrier beaches, spits and sand 
dunes for development purposes.
 6.  establish dune protection Lines (dp L) in important dune areas based on a land survey considering the setback standards 
stipulated in this document plan.
 7. prohibit all new development activities, and further expansion of already existing structures within the dpLs.
 8. Devise effective programmes to communicate with key stakeholders on the importance of maintaining DPLs.
 9.  manage and regulate exploration/extraction of commercially valuable minerals and mineral sands from barrier beaches, 
spits and sand dunes in conformity with the minerals and mines act No 33 of 1992 and in consultation with the Gsmb 
and enforce legal action against violators.
Policy 5.2
  Sand dunes will be protected to minimize the impacts of episodic coastal hazards such as tsunamis and cyclones.
 
Policy 5.3
  Coastal pollution that degrades barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes will be minimized/ prevented.
 
Strategy 5.3.1
  mobilise Local authorities and stakeholders to minimise dumping of solid wastes and dredged material on barrier 
beaches, spits and dunes.
Proposed Actions
 1. assist and encourage the Local authorities to relocate existing dumping sites located within the barrier beaches, spits 
and sand dunes.
 2. Launch beach cleaning campaigns with the participation of all stakeholders and Local authorities.
 3.  formulate management groups among dwellers in beach areas and jointly develop guidelines to maintain barrier 
beaches, spits and sand dunes and prevent pollution of these areas, and ensure that the guidelines are adhered to.
Policy 5.4
  activities  that promote degradation of biodiversity in barrier beaches, spits and sand dunes will minimised.

<!-- page 65 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
65a
Strategy 5.4.1
  minimise human activities that lead to the reduction of biological diversity through inter-agency collaboration.
Proposed Actions
 1. Prohibit removal and destruction of fauna and flora from barrier beaches, spits and dunes.
 2. Promote and launch a programme in collaboration with the Forest Department to plant suitable indigenous flora in 
damaged areas.
 3. identify areas important as nesting sites for sea turtles and take collaborative action to conserve such areas.
 4. Take necessary collaborative action to prevent and mitigate problems of invasive species such as Prosopis juliflora.
Objective 6
  salt marshes are conserved to sustain ecological functions and socio-economic values.
Policy 6.1
  Coastal development activities that degrade salt marsh areas will be minimised/prevented.
Strategy 6.1.1
  ensure compliance with guidelines/regulations for new development by strengthening coordinated action between 
relevant agencies.
 
Proposed Actions
 1. identify critical and importance salt marsh areas in terms of their ecological and socio-economic importance and 
formulate guidelines for planning and development activities in them.
 2. Determine carrying capacity/potential and prepare appropriate detailed zonal plans for prospective development in salt 
marsh areas jointly with relevant agencies and communities.
 3. regulate new activities and expansions (e.g. for salterns, shrimp ponds) in salt marsh areas according to existing laws, 
regulations and permits.
 4. develop a mechanism for relevant agencies to coordinate development activities within and around salt marsh areas.
Policy 6.2
  CC&Crmd shall coordinate with other agencies to conserve salt marshes within and outside the Coastal Zone.
Strategy 6.1.2
  promote sustainable development of salt marshes through planned communication for relevant stakeholders.
Proposed Actions
 1. Formulate and implement customized programmes for communicating about salt marshes and their values to key 
stakeholders to en hance commitment for conservation.

<!-- page 66 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
66a
 2. supply information about pollution control and technology suppliers of pure industries to the industries make negative 
impacts in the coastal zone.
Objective 7 
  Non-living coastal resources sustainably manage to enhance economic vitality while conserving the coastal ecosystems
Policy 7.1
  environmentally sound extractive uses of non-living coastal resources including mineral sands will be promoted to 
enhance economic benefits while maintaining ecological integrity of the ecosystems
Strategy 7.1.1
  adopt a multi-faceted approach involving government agencies, local communities, businesses, and environmental 
organizations to ensure ecological integrity, and the long-term well-being of coastal ecosystems and communities.
Proposed Actions
 1. set sustainable limits on extraction rates and quantities to prevent overexploitation.
 2. promote innovative technologies and practices for resource extraction and conservation.
 3.  promote use of responsible mining practices, best practices for resource restoration including habitat restoration 
techniques.
 4. implement penalties for non-compliance to deter illegal resource extraction or damage to coastal ecosystems.
 5. strengthen enforcement mechanisms to ensure that regulations and guidelines are followed.
Objective 7
  Unintentional damage to the ecological function or value coastal ecosystems caused by the development activities will 
be compensated through habitat creation, restoration, enhancement, or preservation,which lead to improved overall 
ecological quality.
Policy 7.1
  ecological compensation will be adopted in restoring and enhancing damaged ecosystems to maintain balance between 
economic development and conservation needs 
Strategy 7.1.1
  introduce ecological compensation through the development permit procedure 
Proposed Actions
 1. introduce ecological compensation requirements through permit conditioning for development activities in the coastal 
zone.
 2. Identify affected ecosystem through permit compliance monitoring programme on development activities.

<!-- page 67 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
67a
 3. formulate and i mplement ecological compensation plan through coastal developers
Objective 8
  Coastal ecosystems sustainably manage through establishment of beach parks and recreational areas while maintain 
ecological status and public safety through effective shared responsibility between private sector entities and CC&CRMD
Policy 8.1
  Recognized and promote the involvement and undertaking shared responsibility for ecosystem management by private 
sector entities and CC&Crmd through establishment of beach park and recreational areas in suitable locations
Strategy 8.1.1
  Beach parks and selected recreational areas sustainably manage through effective  financial mechanism 
Proposed Actions
 
 1. Launch awareness programme among private sector entities to inform available opportunities
 2. Formulate sustainable financial mechanism to generate income
 3. develop operational guidelines for vesting shared responsibility
 4. identify suitable locations to establish beach parks and recreational areas
 
Objective 9
  Conservation and planned development within the coastal zone will be harmonized by directing investment through 
the provision of information 
Policy 9.1
  i nvestment in development activities dependent on coastal environment and resources shall facilitate through the 
provision of updated bio-physical information on suitable locations.
 
Strategy 9.1.1 
  information on focal areas/ locations  for tourism, renewable energy, aquatic farming, and mineral extraction (except 
sand) is disseminated through information compendium 
Proposed Actions
 1. prepare information compendium consistent with the updated Npp , tourism plan on focal locations for;
 • Tourism; over water structures, water bungalows, establishment of  land based recreation, water based recreational 
activities
 • Aquatic/Sea Farming; Seaweed, sea cucumber, crab fattening, sea farming
 • Renewable energy; Solar power, wind power, ocean thermal power 
 • Beach parks and recreational area;  

<!-- page 68 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
68a
REFERENCES:
 1. Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department, (2014); Updating and preparation of a synthesis 
report on Coastal Coral reefs, sea grass beds, salt marshes, Lagoons and estuaries and barrier beaches within the 
coastal region of sri Lanka.
 2. Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department (2004), revised Coastal Zone management plan 
2004.
 3. Government of sri Lanka, Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management act, No. 57 of 1981.
 4. ministry of environment and Natural resources, 2009, National action plan for haritha Lanka programme
 5. miththapala, s. (2008) mangroves, Coastal ecosystem series V olume 2 p1-28 + iii, Colombo sri Lanka; ecosystem 
and Livelihood Group asia, iUCN.
 6. miththapala, s. (2008) sea grases and sand dunes, Coastal ecosystem series V olume 3, Colombo sri Lanka; ecosystem 
and Livelihood Group asia, iUCN
 7. miththapala, s. (2013). Lagoons and estuaries. Coastal ecosystems series (V ol 4). vi + 73 pp. iUCN sri Lanka Country 
Office, Colombo.
 8. N perera (2019) a  preliminary report on the status of Kayankerni Coral reef, sri Lanka
 9. silva, e.i.L; Katupotha, J.; amarasinghe, O.; manthrithilake,h.; ariyaratne, r. 2013. Lagoons of sri Lanka: from the 
origins to the present. Colombo, sri Lanka; international Water management institute (iWmi).
 10. ramawickrama N.W et al (2020) diversity and the Current status of Coral reefs in eastern Coast of sri Lanka,  
proceedings of the international research Conference of Uva Wellassa University.
 11. samarakoon, Jayampthy; saman samarawickrama (2012) an appraisal of challenges in the sustainable management 
of the Micro tidal Barrier built estuaries and lagoons in Sri Lanka, IUCN, Sri Lanka Country Office, Colombo.
 12. Van Gosen, b.s., fey, d.L., shah, a.K., Verplanck, p .L., and hoefen, t .m., 2014, deposit model for heavy-mineral 
sands in coastal environments: U.S. Geological Survey Scientific Investigations Report 2010–5070–L, 51p http://dx.doi.
org/10.3133/sir20105070L.
 13. Arulananthan, A.; et al (2021)  The Status of the Coral Reefs of the Jaffna Peninsula (Northern Sri Lanka), with 36 
Coral Species New to Sri Lanka Confirmed by DNA Bar-Coding. Oceans 2021, 2, 509–529. https://doi.org/ 10.3390/
oceans2030029 
 14.  department of forest Conservation (2022) the sri Lanka forester V olume 41 (New series) special issue on mangroves
  Web sites used: http://www.fao.org/docrep/010/ai000e/AI000E07.htm
  https://nexttravelsrilanka.com/corals-sri

<!-- page 69 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
69a
CHAPTER 4 - CONTROLLING COASTAL POLLuTION
 4.1  INTRODuCTION
  With increasing trends in coastal zone developments and the use of coastal waters, beaches, and adjacent areas for 
various purposes such as recreation/tourism, fishing, and mariculture pollution in coastal waters has become a significant 
issue. 
  The details on the significance of the issue, nature of coastal pollution, type of pollutants and sources, current status 
of water quality in coastal waters, beach areas, and also plans, policies, and implementation strategies to address the 
related issues are presented in this chapter.
 4.1.1 Significance of the Problem
  As a result of growing population pressures, urbanization and development activities taking place in the coastal 
region, the problem of coastal pollution has been increasing over the past few decades. in 2019, population in the 
coastal districts was estimated as 12,319,000. Colombo Metropolitan Area has the highest rate of urbanization 
growing from 3.9 million in 1981 to 5.648 million in 2012. Ocean waters, coastal surface waters comprising rivers, 
streams, estuaries and lagoons and ground water in coastal areas receive significant level of pollution loads from    
un-regulated industries, development activities and human settlements located in and outside the Coastal Zone. Out 
of all industries in the country (small, medium, large scale) 61.6 % of industrial units are located in the coastal region 
and significant amount of units’ discharge effluents with little or no treatment. By and large, the   sustainability of 
fisheries, tourism and other industries and livelihoods of local communities depend considerably on the productivity 
of the diverse ecosystems and resources within this area. the nearshore waters in particular are used extensively 
 
Coastal pollution could emerge due to contamination of coastal waters, shores, and 
adjacent ecosystems by various pollutants originating from human activities. These 
pollutants can have detrimental effects on marine life, human health, and the overall 
health of coastal environments. 
To overcome coastal pollution, a combination of regulatory measures, sustainable 
practices, public education and awareness efforts are ess ential. Some strategies to 
address coastal pollution include implementing stricter environmental regulations, 
improving wastewater treatment, promoting sustainable agriculture and fishing practices, 
halting dumping of waste, reducing plastic consumption an d promoting recycling, and 
enhancing coastal zone management and protection. 
The National Environmental Act of 1980 defines 
pollution as “Any direct or indirect alteration of 
the physical, thermal, chemical, biological 
or radioactive properties of any part of the 
environment by the discharge, emission or the 
deposit of wastes so as to affect any beneficial 
use adversely or to cause a condition which is 
hazardous to public health, safety or welfare of 
animals, birds, wildlife, aquatic life or to plants 
of every description.”
The findings of the recent    monitoring studies 
carried out by CC&CRMD show deterioration of 
coastal water quality in       economically sensitive 
coastal areas. In addition, it is also evident that a 
significant part of the focal beach areas has been 
severely polluted due to solid waste.
 In view of the remarkable attraction on  development 
of coastal tourism and other important economic 
activities including within the coastal region, the 
degree of pollution should be closely monitored and 
effectively managed. 

<!-- page 70 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
70a
for fishing, mariculture and recreation etc., for which different levels of water quality and aesthetically pleasing 
environments are required.
  the impacts of pollution on the coastal and marine ecosystems and their resultant biological as well as socio-economic 
implications are many and varied. the existing information revealed that the cost of coastal water pollution in sri 
Lanka is on the increasing side. for example, the cost to human health from coastal water pollution in the Colombo 
metropolitan area is estimated to have increased from LKr. 2 million in 1992, to LKr. 4 million in 1997 and LKr. 
14 million in 2002 respectively (CZ mp  – 2018). t here are also losses associated with decreased biological diversity, 
reduced aesthetic, recreational, cultural and archaeological values, declining land prices and reduced revenue from 
tourism, fisheries and other development activities. There are also some strong links between increasing levels of 
pollution and loss of coastal land values and fishery productivity. For example, the estimated annual loss of income 
from fish sales in the Lunawa lagoon prior to rehabilitation due to pollution is approximately LKR 1,963 million and 
the total annual land value decline in the area is estimated to be LKr 712 million. in addition, the total direct cost 
incurred on rehabilitation of Lunawa Lagoon during the period between 2004- 2007 under the adb funded Crmp  
and Lunawa Environmental Improvement Project was approximately US$ 95 million. Thus, the benefits expected 
from coastal pollution management are substantial and reducing pollution in the coastal region is of paramount 
importance
COASTAL WATERS AS THE CONDUIT OF POLLUTION
  Coastal nearshore waters in some coastal areas receive considerable pollutants by way of sewage, industrial, 
agricultural, and domestic wastewater, sediment and solid materials from land-based activities. they are released 
directly into the ocean or are conveyed through rivers, estuaries and lagoons. this is of concern particularly as the 
designated uses of nearshore waters are dependent on specific levels of water quality.
  Coastal waters in estuaries and lagoons are subject to heavy pollution loads, though the level of pollutants in them 
changes due to dilution and flushing by riverine flow or tidal action. Pollution of these waters has an impact on the 
health of the important ecosystems associated with them and the diverse and economically important fauna and flora 
they contain.
  Sri Lanka has 103 rivers that radiate from the central hills and flow down to the coast. These rivers are subject to 
different pollution stresses; some carry very high pollution loads consisting of organic and inorganic pollutants, 
faecal matter, waste oil and visual pollutants. The degree of pollution in rivers may differ temporally as well as 
spatially as pollution loads entering them at various points vary considerably.
  Ground water is derived mainly from rainwater seepage and the recharge from surface water bodies such as streams, 
canals and reservoirs. the estimated ground water availability in the island is around 7,250 million cubic meters. 
the richest source of ground water in sri Lanka is the Karst limestone aquifers in the coastal districts of puttalam 
and Mannar extending to the Jaffna Peninsula. Over the  
years, ground water has been extracted increasingly for 
domestic, agricultural and industrial purposes, from both shallow dug wells and deep tube wells.
  serious threats to ground water have been observed in many coastal areas due to nitrate and bacterial contamination. 
The main pollution problems in the groundwater of coastal areas are leachate of fertilizers causing nitrate pollution; 
seepage from faecal matter and pollution with heavy metals in industrial zones. Treatment of groundwater is very 
costly so preventing pollution is of considerable importance. another concern is that higher rates of water extraction 
Pollution of ground water
 Although an accurate assessment of coastal water pollution caused by agricultural 
run-off has not yet been carried out, some studies indicate a link between the two. In the Kalpitiya 
Peninsula, characterized by highly permeable soils and a shallow water table, the irrigation wells 
in extensively cultivated areas have high nitrate concentrations (i.e. in excess of the WHO 
guideline of 10 mg/l) and a chloride concentration ranging from 50-200 mg/l. In contrast, 
domestic wells located outside these areas have nitrate levels less than 2 mg/l and chloride 
concentrations less than 100 mg/l. There is widespread ground water contamination in the 
Jaffna Peninsula attributed to agricultural run-off and the extensive use of pit latrines. High 
concentration of nitrates has been recorded in the ground water of the Jaffna Peninsula resulting 
in the “methaemoglobinaemia” or blue baby syndrome among those who use the contaminated 
waters  (CC&CRMP 2018)

<!-- page 71 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
71a
in coastal areas than is sustainable has led to brackish water intrusion into wells, particularly in the N orthern and 
N orth western coastal areas where well water is extensively used for agriculture. (CC&Crmp  2018)
 4.2 Nature of Coastal Pollution
 4.2.1  Key Factors Influencing Coastal Water Pollution
  The main factors influencing water pollution in the coastal region are the increasing population pressures, particularly 
in the areas where industrial, agricultural, fisheries, and tourism-related activities are predominant. Accordingly, the 
coastal zone is under threat from unmanaged human activities that cause coastal water pollution because of sewage 
and solid waste; industrial effluents; pollution from tourism; power, fisheries, and aquaculture; oil spills; heavy 
metals, and plastics.
  The coastal districts of Colombo, Gampaha, Kalutara, Galle, Matara and Jaffna respectively recorded the highest 
population densities. problems related to coastal pollution can be expected to increase further in the future as major 
social and economic development activities continue to take place along the coastal belt, if not properly managed. in 
this respect, specific attention has to be placed on five metro regions proposed in Northern, North Central, Eastern, 
southern and Western coastal regions under the sri Lanka 2030 National physical plan. in addition, coastal areas 
in Mannar, Jaffna, Kuchchiveli and Kalpitiya coastal segments are to be developed as new tourism development 
areas. 
  a  master plan has been developed for tourism developments along the coast from Negombo to mirissa by the 
CC&CRMD. In addition, a study carried out by the CC&CRMD in 2022 has identified suitable locations for different 
types of tourism developments along the coast. thus, a higher tendency towards occurring coastal pollution has to 
be expected in the future.
 4.2.2 Types of Pollutants and their Sources
  although the level of coastal water pollution has not been fully studied yet, the current information revealed that 
coastal waters are polluted mainly due to the release of untreated or partially treated wastewater and toxic substances 
from industries, tourist resorts and shrimp farms, the dumping of solid waste in coastal areas, the receipt of raw 
sewage in urban areas and contamination with waste oil released from fishing boats, ships, coastal service stations 
and oil spills. These waters also receive fertilizer and agro-chemical run-off from agricultural lands and waste from 
squatter settlements and other domestic sources. the pollutants that reach coastal waters vary from faecal matter, 
visual pollutants that float or are in suspension, nutrients rich in nitrogen and/or phosphorus, toxic and non-toxic 
organic substances and heavy metals, waste oil and thermal discharges (Table 4.1). they may originate from 
specific point sources such as industries, urban sewers or sewage treatment plants and coconut husk retting sites, 
and (a) be transported through coastal waterways such as rivers, streams and estuaries, or (b) through direct leakage 
and seepage. They may also originate from non-point sources (run-off) that are more difficult to control, such as 
agricultural lands, sewage from built- up areas and mines.
Table 4- 1 Type of Pollution, Sources and Main Adverse Impacts
Type of 
pollution
Key sources Adverse impacts
faecal pollution municipal s ewage  industries t ourist 
sector aquaculture squatter settlements
Water related diseases
Affects the growth of marine flora and fauna
foul odours, spoils scenic value
may lead to anaerobic environments

<!-- page 72 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
72a
Type of 
pollution
Key sources Adverse impacts
Visual pollution
industries t ourist sector
agriculture and aquaculture squatter 
settlements municipal and domestic
solid waste
spoils scenic value
Affects habitats and breeding grounds of fauna
Affects growth of marine vegetation such as sea 
grass by reducing light penetration
enrichment with 
nutrients such 
as nitrogen and 
phosphorus
municipal sewage industries t ourist 
sector
agriculture and aquaculture squatter 
settlements
municipal and domestic solid waste
stimulates algae growth Causes change or decline 
of biodiversity
Changes water quality
Organic (non- toxic and 
toxic) and heavy metal 
pollution
industries t ourism sector
agriculture and aquaculture squatter 
settlements municipal and domestic solid 
waste
bio-accumulation of substances that are 
carcinogenic or causes health hazards in marine 
fauna
decline of biodiversity
persistence in the marine or coastal environment 
for long periods Affects growth and reproduction 
of marine fauna
Oil pollution industries
boats, ships, oil spills and service stations
spoils scenic value
Destroys marine fauna and flora Affects benthic 
fauna with the formation of oil slicks and tar 
balls.
thermal pollution power sector, industries Affects migration patterns of fauna Affects the 
growth of marine flora and fauna
Causes changes in ecosystems stimulates algae 
growth
Sour ce: CC&C RMP 2018
 4.2.3 Spatial characteristics of coastal water pollution in Selected Coastal Segments
  The findings of the study carried out by CC&CRMD in 2020 in eight coastal segments with different locations in 
different environment types from Negombo to Mirissa demonstrate the alarming situation related to coastal pollution 
control and the requirement of effective management measures to avoid the social and economic cost of coastal 
pollution (CC&Crmd 2020) 
  The results of the study carried out in eight coastal segments from Maha Oya to Mirissa are summarized below
Segment 1 - Maha Oya to Kutti Duwa 
  except for porutota beach, all the sampling locations were contaminated with total and feacal coliform and COd 
values exceeded the given standards.  
Segment 2 - Talahena to Kelani River mouth 
  it is reported that all sampling locations exceeded the standard level of COd where the highest faecal coliform 
bacteria and COd levels were detected in Kelani river mouth. 

<!-- page 73 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
73a
Segment 3 - Wellawatta canal to Mt. Lavinia.
  all the sampling locations were contaminated with total and feacal coliform except mt. Lavinia beach. high oil 
concentration was recorded in water collected near Dehiwala fish market (14.32 mg/L) and the highest COD was 
recorded in mt. Lavinia beach 
Segment 4 - Talpitiya canal mouth to Kalutara Kalido beach
  the results show that all the sampling locations were contaminated with total coliform and COd values, which 
exceeded the given standards
Segment 5 - Kechhimale Mosque to Kaluwamodera (Bentota river mouth).
  the results show that except benthota beach, all the sampling locations were contaminated with total and feacal 
coliform. the highest COd (4622.64 mg/L) and oil (19.87 mg/L) was found in beruwal habour. 
Segment 6 - Hikkaduwa ( Thuduwegoda canal outlet up to Kumarakanda)
  the results show that except two sampling locations, all other sampling locations were contaminated with total 
coliform, and faecal coliform counts remained below the standard. COd values exceeded the given standards and 
the highest was recorded at hikkaduwa lagoon mouth (3475.31 mg/L).
Segment 7  - unawatuna (Yakdehimulla to Koggala Lagoon mouth)
  except Unawatuna beach and Koggala river, all the other sampling locations were contaminated with faecal coliform 
and the highest COd was recorded (4800.45 mg/L) in devol devalaya canal where the second highest was noted 
in Koggala river mouth (4622.64 mg/L).
Segment 8  - Mirissa (Kapparatota to Bandaramulla)
  the results show that the almost all sampling locations were contaminated with total coliform, and high faecal counts 
were recorded at Kapparathota, bandaramulla coast and mirissa habour sampling locations. COd values exceeded 
the given standards and the highest was recorded at polwathumodara sampling location (5770 mg/L).
  apart from the above, a study conducted in 2022 within the same coastal area from Negombo to mirissa covering 
11 coastal segments and 65 sampling locations and results also revealed similar situation with respect to coastal 
water pollution. The findings of the study have indicated the prevailing levels of Temperature and pH, Electrical 
Conductivity (eC), dissolved Oxygen (dO), Nitrate, ammonia, t otal phosphorus (tp), Chemical Oxygen demand 
(COd). it was also reported that the fecal coliform in all of the coastal waterways, indicating fecal contamination, 
and the discovery of salmonella sp. pathogenic bacteria from the dehiwala canal and r athmalana sampling locations 
highlighting the requirement of additional attention. The findings also concluded that the study area has begun to 
decline due to anthropogenic activities and that there is less care for environmental friendliness as development is 
in progress. (manage p  et. al 2022).
 4.3 ISSuES AND THREATS
 4.3.1 Inadequate Municipal Sewage Disposal Facilities
  as described in the previous section, faecal pollution is a major problem in some coastal waters due to the direct 
discharge of untreated municipal sewage into the land, waterways and the sea. Colombo is one of the few cities 
in sri Lanka with an installed sewerage system. a  part of the sewer connections is diverted to the sea at mutwal 
through a long sea outfall located north of the Colombo port and the rest is sent out through another long sea outfall 
at Wellawatta. the capacity of the sewerage system is inadequate to cater for the entire Colombo City as it is more 

<!-- page 74 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
74a
than 100 years old, and needs frequent repair. another problem is the illegal sewage connections to sewerage lines 
and unauthorized connections to storm water drainage systems and combined sewers.
  as per the current estimates, the generated wastewater in the coastal area was approximately 1,822,864 m3 per 
day and a significant amount of domestically generated wastewater is discharged into the Coastal Zone through 
canals, drains, and pipes. according to a study carried out by mOfe in 2001, out of a total 370, 000 m3 of 
daily wastewater generated in the greater Colombo area, only 90,000  m3  is discharged through ocean outfalls. 
the balance amounts of 280,000 m3 re-enters the environment as wastewater. the wastewater discharge through 
marine outfalls contained high organic content, high nutrient content, and high content of coliforms
 4.3.2 Inadequate Facilities for Waste Disposal in Underserved Settlements
  the problem of sewage disposal in Colombo is compounded by the inadequacy of urban infrastructure for the city’s 
poor. at the turn of the last century there were about 1,500 shanty settlements in the city, comprising around 66,000 
households sheltering about 51% of the city’s population. these settlements are under-served in respect of sanitation, 
safe water and waste disposal facilities. pollution from these sources causes a reduction of dissolved oxygen in the 
canals and streams, resulting in an anoxic environment and a foul odor that is harmful to human health and aquatic 
organisms.
 4.3.3 Industrial Effluents
 • Sri Lanka-China Logistics and Industrial Zone, in the Hambantota region, is being developed primarily by Chinese 
investors and is expected to involve $5bn in funding
 • industrial park at horana
 • Millaniya, in the Kalutara
 • Trincomalee and Kilinochchi have been identifi ed as suitable places for the -manufacturing of consumer goods, 
while Kandy, Galle and Jaffna have been earmarked for a range of IT goods.
Sewage disposal facilities in the Greater Colombo Area
 Wellawatta and Mutwal sea outfalls belonging to Colombo Municipality Council discharge 
wastewater to sea using high density Polyethylene (HDPE) pipes. Long sea outfalls use grit 
removal methods to remove larger materials and
 but further treatment process is not applied. 
During the past few years, water skin diseases were recorded in Wellawatta coastal area 
and it might have resulted due to the discharge from sea outfalls (Compendium on Coastal 
Pollution, 2014).
Many highly populated coastal low-lying areas have a shallow water table and a high 
vulnerability for flooding. Inadequate drainage facilities and ad hoc developments in these 
areas have further intensified the impacts of inappropriate sewage disposal in low-lying flood 
prone coastal areas, leading to severe faecal pollution in internal and nearshore waters.
There are nine Export Processing Zones (EPZ), three Industrial Parks (IP) and one 
Export Processing Park (EPP) operating under the purview of the BOI. Of these, two 
EPZs (Katunayake and Koggala) and one IP (of 20 Ha in Mirijjawila) are located in the 
coastal region. 
In addition, there are seventeen other Industrial Parks managed by the Ministry of Industries. 
Of these, three parks - at Bata-atha, Ratmalana and Udukawa -are located in the coastal 
region. Four other IP s at Panadura, Weligama, Ekala and St. Martin Estate Chilaw are 
also located in the coastal region (CC&CRMP 2018)

<!-- page 75 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
75a
  Industrial effluents that have undergone little or no treatment are frequently received by nearshore waters, lagoons, 
and estuaries through run-off, leakage, and seepage. Most of the industries located in the coastal areas belong to 
either the medium or low polluting category. in 2016, sri Lanka had 5253 industries with a high or medium pollution 
potential in the Coastal Zone (Cea  2016). industries that contribute most to water pollution are those dealing with 
textiles, paper, tanning, metal finishing and engineering, paints, chemicals, cement, food and beverages and distilleries. 
Small Industries that deal with coconut fiber retting also have highly localized impacts on water pollution as they 
result in high bOd and COd values.
  the majority of the industries are not yet equipped with the basic infrastructure for waste treatment, while others are 
constrained in the use of available waste treatment facilities due to the high costs involved. Only the e xport processing 
Zones at Katunayake (KepZ) and biyagama (bepZ) have facilities for the central treatment of wastewater prior to 
discharge. during the past few years, many water quality issues occurred due to discharge of untreated industrial 
wastewater. industrial wastewater contains pOp  (persistent Organic pollutants) and heavy metals which are not 
decaying with time. due to high cost involved in treatment methods, many factories don’t do not use treatment to 
remove POP and heavy metals. In this respect, tanning factories could be considered as one of the significant main 
pollution sources.
Table 4-2 shows the number of high/medium polluting industries located in coastal divisional secretariat divisions. these 
include those set up under the board of investment (bOi). Table 4.3 depicts the tolerance limits stipulated by Cea  
through Gazette-No. 2264/17 – thursday, January 27, 2022 for industrial and domestic discharged into marine  
waters while Table 4.4 depicts tolerance limits for coastal waters.
Table 4- 2 Spatial Distribution of High Medium Polluting Industries including BOI approved
DSDs in Coastal Districts Category A Category B BOI Total
Colombo 122 70 14 206
Gampha 638 358 138 1134
Kalutara 272 183 53 508
Galle 182 319 17 518
matara 176 246 13 435
hambantota 150 95 17 262
t rincomalee 148 163 17 328
ampara 99 149 7 255
batticaloa 116 240 5 361
mullaitivu 23 47 0 70
Jaffna 301 284 3 588
mannar 88 115 3 206
puttalam 128 240 14 382
Total 2443 2509 301 5253
Source: Central Environmental Authority (2016) 

<!-- page 76 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
76a
Table 4- 3: Tolerance limits for the discharge of wastewater or effluent into Marine Waters
No. Parameter Unit, type
 of limit
Tolerance limit 
values for an 
outfall leading 
up to near- shore 
water
Tolerance limit 
values for a 
short sea 
outfall
Tolerance limit
values for a long 
sea outfall
1. t otal suspended solids mg/1, max. 30 50 250
2. t otal dissolved solids mg/1, max. 2100 - -
3. ph value at ambient temperature - 6.0 – 8.5 5.5 – 9.0 5.5 – 9.0
4. biochemical Oxygen demand 
(bOd 5  in 5 days at 20 0 C)
mg/1,max. 15 75 400
5. t emperature at the point of discharge 0 C, max ambient 
water 
temperature
+/- 5 or 35 
whichever is 
lesser
ambient 
water 
temperature
+/- 5 or 35 
whichever 
is lesser
ambient 
water 
temperature
+/- 5 or 35 
whichever 
is lesser
6. Oils and greases mg/1,max. 5 12 15
7. phenols ( as C
6 h 5 Oh) mg/1,max. 1 1 5
8. Chemical oxygen demand (COd) mg/1,max. 50 400 800
9. dissolved phosphates (as p) mg/1,max. 1 5 10
10. ammoniacal nitrogen (as N) mg/1,max. 15 50 150
11. Cyanides (as CN) mg/1,max. 0.1 0.2 0.4
12. t otal residual 
chlorine (as Cl 2 )
mg/1,max. 0.5 0.5 1.0
13. fluorides (as f) mg/1,max. 2 2 5
14. sulphides (as s) mg/1,max. 2 2 5
15. a rsenic, total (as as) mg/1,max. 0.08 0.1 0.2
16. Cadmium, total (as Cd) mg/1,max. 0.02 0.05 0.10
17. Chromium, total (as Cr) mg/1,max. 0.05 0.05 0.10
18. Chromium, hexavalent (as Cr 6+ ) mg/1,max. 0.01 0.01 0.05
19. Copper, total (as Cu) mg/1,max. 1.0 1.0 1.0
20. Lead, total (as pb) mg/1,max. 0.05 0.10 0.10
21. mercury, total (as hg) mg/1,max. 0.001 0.002 0.01
22. Nickel, total (as Ni) mg/1,max. 0.1 0.2 1.0
23. selenium, total (as se) mg/1,max. 0.01 0.05 0.10
24. Zinc, total (as Zn) mg/1,max. 3 3 5
25. silver, total (as ag) mg/1,max. 0.005 0.035 0.35
26. pesticides (t otal) mg/1,max. 0.005 0.005 0.05
27. surfactants (t otal) mg/l, max. 1 5 10
28. faecal Coliform mpN/100ml,max 150 1500 10 7
29. radioactivity Gross alpha activity + bq/l maximum 0.5 0.5 0.5
30. radioactivity Gross beta activity + bq/l maximum 1.0 1.0 1.0

<!-- page 77 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
77a
(LIST I B) Colour Parameters
No. Parameter Unit, type of limit Tolerance limit values for coastal 
waters
1.
2.
3.
Colour
400-499 nm- (y ellow range) 
500-599 nm- (red range)  
600-750 nm- (blue range)
m -1
m -1
m -1
maximum spectral
absorption coefficient
7 max
5 max
3 max
Source: GOSL Gazette-No. 2264/17 – Thursday, January 27, 2022
Table 4- 4  Tolerance limits for the discharge of wastewater or effluents into Coastal Waters
No. Parameter Unit, type of   limit Tolerance limit values for  
coastal waters
1. t otal suspended solids mg/1, max. 50
2. t otal dissolved solids mg/1, max. 1000
3. ph at ambient temperature - 6.0 – 8.5
4. biochemical oxygen demand (bOd 5  in 5 days at
20 0 C)
mg/1,max. 30
5. t emperature at the point of discharge 0 C, max ambient water temperature
± 5 or 40 whichever is lesser
6. Oils and greases mg/1,max. 10
7. phenols ( as C 6 h 5 Oh) mg/1,max. 1
8. Chemical oxygen demand (CO d ) mg/1,max. 250
9. dissolved phosphates (as p) mg/1,max. 5
10. t otal Kjeldhal nitrogen (as N) mg/1,max. 150
11. ammoniacal nitrogen (as N) mg/1,max. 50
12. Cyanide (as CN) mg/1,max. 0.05
13. t otal residual chlorine (as Cl 2 ) mg/1,max. 0.5
14. Chlorides (as Cl) mg/1, max. shall not change 20% from the 
ambient
level at any point of the tidal 
cycle.
15. fluorides (as f) mg/1,max. 2.0
16. sulphides (as s) mg/1,max. 2.0
17. a rsenic, total (as as) mg/1,max. 0.05
18. Cadmium, total (as Cd) mg/1,max. 0.05
19. Chromium, total (as Cr) mg/1,max. 0.05
20. Chromium, hexavalent (as Cr
6+ ) mg/1,max. 0.01
21. Copper, total (as Cu) mg/1,max. 0.05
22. Lead, total (as pb) mg/1,max. 0.05
23. mercury, total (as hg) mg/1,max. 0.001
24. Nickel, total (as Ni) mg/1,max. 0.2
25. selenium, total (as se) mg/1,max. 0.05

<!-- page 78 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
78a
No. Parameter Unit, type of   limit Tolerance limit values for  
coastal waters
26. Zinc, total (as Zn) mg/1,max. 1.0
27. silver, total (as ag) mg/1,max. 0.035
28. pesticides (t otal) mg/1,max. 0.005
29. surfactants (t otal) mg/l, max. 5.0
30. sulphates (as s ) mg/l, max. 250
31. faecal coliform mpN/100ml,
max.
150
32. radioactivity Gross alpha activity + bq/l maximum 0.5
33. radioactivity Gross beta activity + bq/l maximum 1.0
List  iib
Colour Parameters
No. Parameter Unit, type of limit Tolerance limit values for 
coastal waters
1.
2.
3.
Colour
400-499 nm- (y ellow range) 
500-599 nm- (red range) 
600-750 nm- (blue range)
m -1
m -1
m -1
maximum spectral
absorption coefficient
7 max
5 max
3 max
Note 1: All efforts shall be made to remove unpleasant odor as practicable as possible.
Note 2: These limit values are based on the premise that for coastal water the dilution factor may be at least 1:8. In an event 
where the dilution factor is found to be less, the limit values given in the Lists shall be adjusted on a proportional basis so as to 
give rise to more stringent limit values.
Note 3: In case of the tolerance limits of radioactive materials exceeds, the standards stipulated by the Sri Lanka Atomic 
Energy Regulatory Council shall apply.
 4.3.4 Pollution from Tourist Establishments
  Current information revealed that a high percentage of tourist hotels registered with the sri Lanka t ourism 
development authority (sL tda) are located in the coastal region. in year 2013, tourist arrivals to sri Lanka were 
approximately 100,000 per month and the generated monthly wastewater volume has been  estimated as 19,000 m 3 . 
a  study conducted among 276 hotels, revealed that 92 % of large hotels had wastewater treatment plants while only 
17 % of the small and medium hotels had such plants. A significant growth in tourist arrivals has taken place from 
2013 until 2018 after which it was significantly affected by Easter bombings in April, 2019 and the Covid pandemic 
conditions. a  strategic plan for sri Lanka t ourism 2022-2025 has been prepared by the sL tda  for the recovery and 
expansion of the tourist sector in the country. however, the negative aspects of the uncontrolled expansion of tourism at 
At present 74.4% (or the majority) of Sri Lanka’ s tourist arrivals are for pleasure. This type of 
tourism depends highly on the quality of the environment, especially as tourists today are 
increasingly sensitive to pollution or environmental degradation at their travel destinations. 
For tourism in the coastal zone to be sustainable, coastal pollution has to be managed to 
prevent adverse impacts on the industry.

<!-- page 79 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
79a
the start of the tourist boom have become apparent in many coastal resorts, where there are clusters of restaurants and 
guesthouses, as well as at other major tourist centers. the nearshore waters receive  untreated sewage, sullage in the 
form of kitchen and laundry wastewater and solid waste including plastics. this causes pollution problems, as apparent 
in most major tourist centres along the south, southwestern and eastern coasts. t ourism expansion in hikkaduwa, 
beruwala, Unawatuna and arugam bay areas has led to water quality degradation as well as visual pollution of beaches 
and nearshore waters. as per the ongoing coastal water quality monitoring studies carried out by the CC&Crmd, 
it is clearly evident that the qualities of the nearshore coastal waters in the vicinity of tourism centers have been 
significantly degraded due to the discharge of effluents. The problem of sullage is particularly perceived as a problem 
associated with larger hotels. squatter settlements connected with tourism is also a concern as they contribute to faecal 
pollution, which is a severe threat to recreational activities. such as swimming and water sports in coastal waters. 
 4.3.5. Pollution from the Power Sector
  Sri Lanka’s energy requirements are met from six different types of resources. Recent statistics indicate that in 2019, 
thermal power plants (oil) contributed 30.2 %, and thermal power (coal) contributed 35.3 %, both surpassing the 
main hydropower contribution of 22.7 % of gross power generation. (sri Lanka energy balance 2019, an analysis 
of e nergy sector performance, sri Lanka sustainable e nergy authority) t he thermal power plants are mainly located 
in the coastal regions. these plants are located in Kerawalapitiya, Norachcholai and puttalam. Kerawalapitiya 
and puttalam plants use furnace oil as the energy source while coal is used by the Norachcholai plant. although 
hydropower contributed a major share to the total installed capacity, its inputs towards annual power generation are 
steadily decreasing. The shortfall between power demand and the present hydropower output is being fulfilled by 
thermal power generation using petroleum, coal, and natural gas. the establishment of these plants in the coastal 
regions can result in the thermal pollution of coastal waters. The discharge of hot water and desalinized water are 
the main threat for the coastal water quality from the thermal power plants.
 4.3.6. Pollution from the Fisheries Sector
  A total of 21 functioning fishery harbors, 42 anchorages, and 883 landing sites located in the Coastal Zone contribute 
to the pollution of coastal waters due to improper disposal of burned oil and bilge water from fishing vessels to the 
harbour waters. In addition, the production of a substantial amount of organic waste from fish degutting, market floor 
runoff, cleaning, and garbage dumping also causes higher COD levels in the affected coastal waters. Although the 
Ceylon fishery harbor Corporation (CfhC) has provided burned oil reception facilities at the harbors, the discharge 
of waste oil into the harbor basins is being continued, posing environmental threats. feasibility studies have been 
carried out recently for the rehabilitation of up to 4 harbours- beruwala, Galle, puranawella, and Kudawella- located 
in the south/southwest coast of the country in which improved waste management methods are to be adopted.
 4.3.7. unsanitary Disposal of Solid Waste
A study conducted on 192 countries which include residents that border the Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean, 
Indian ocean, Black Sea, and Mediterranean Sea identified Sri Lanka as 5th out of the top twenty countries 
polluting the ocean due to marine debris. According to a study conducted on 22 beach stretches along the 
coast revealed that 4.1 large (>25mm) and 158 small (5mm-25mm) debris per square meter of the beach. 
By usage classification, packaging material (55%) dominated the consumer products (25%) and fishing 
gear (20%). Plastic was the highest contributing (93%) material. Beaches close to a river mouth, city or 
with a barrier had greater debris accumulation
(Yong Chang Jang et al. (2018)
  Solid waste is one of the major sources of coastal pollution. Environmental and health hazards related to solid 
waste have been growing in sri Lanka during the last few decades, and continue to be a problem. solid wastes in 
the coastal environments were comprised of domestic wastes, solid wastes from recreational activities, tourism and 
other industry-based wastes, smoking-related wastes, and medical waste, etc.  the sources of solid wastes in the 
coastal environment are mainly from land-based, coastal based and sea-based sources. solid wastes accumulated in 

<!-- page 80 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
80a
the coastal zone especially on the beaches are from the inland of the country, reaching via rivers, streams, and other 
waterways. In addition, haphazardly dumping of solid waste by the coastal residents, beach users, tourism related 
establishments and fishing vessels and. infrastructure facilities contribute to aggravate the problem. 
  according to y ong Chang Jang (2018) there were 4.1 large (>25mm) and 158 small (5mm-25mm) debris per square 
meter of the beach. By usage classification, packaging material (55%) dominated the consumer products (25%) and 
fishing gear (20%). Plastic was the highest contributing (93%) material. Beaches close to a river mouth, city or with 
a barrier had greater debris accumulation.
  in a study conducted in 2021 (hitige and samarkoon, 2021) to evaluate the status of solid wastes and waste 
managem ent in the coastal environments of sri Lanka 15 coastal environments of sri Lanka were selected as the 
sampling locations. The methodology comprised analyzing the types of solid wastes and the composition of each 
type of solid wastes in a unit area. The sources of solid wastes governing marine litter were identified. The study 
revealed that there was an average of 4.2 kg and 50 pieces of debris per a square meter of beach. the results of the 
study presented that tourist beaches away from the town limits show the highest density of solid wastes and coastal 
environments in river mouths show the next highest. Plastic was identified as the dominant material governing 
marine litter in coastal environments. the study indicated that the lack of infrastructure facilities in the country, 
inappropriate and illegal waste dumping, absence of proper waste management systems, and less awareness on this 
issue governs the accumulation of solid wastes in the coastal environments and end up as marine litter. the study 
concludes that there is a need for utilizing proper waste management in the coastal environments with the effective 
use of available infrastructure facilities. at the same time, the need of promoting plastic recycling and acknowledging 
the community regarding the impact of solid wastes on marine litter is much needed. the study introduced a mobile 
application as a communication application to enhance the effective waste management of solid wastes with the 
available facilities and to motivate the community to save the coastal ecosystems of sri Lanka 
  according to the above study it was revealed that the main types of solid wastes on the beaches comprised of plastic, 
glass, metal, wood, paper, polythene, and other floating materials.. Table 4.5 depicts the nature and composition of 
solid waste on the beaches.
Table 4- 5: Overall percentage of each type of solid wastes collected in sampling locations in a unit area
Material Weight Number
plastic 48% 41%
Glass 39% 8%
metals 9% 10%
Woods 1% 3%
paper and polythene 1% 19%
Others 2% 20%
Source: LY Hitige et al. (2021) International Journal of Environment, Agriculture and Biotechnology Vol-6, Issue-5; Sep-Oct, 2021
  Jambeck et al. (2015) estimate that, on average, 0.2 kg per person per day (ppd) of plastics is consumed worldwide. sri Lanka 
is the worst country (5.0 kg/ppd), followed by the U.s. (2.59 kg/ppd) and south africa (2.0 kg/ppd)
  as per the current estimates, the amount of waste generated in the coastal provinces are approximately 7145 tons per day in 
which only 2769 tons per day (39%) being collected and disposed into final 213 disposal sites (Mervin Lal et al. 2020). The 
rate of waste collection by the Local authorities’ island- wide is estimated to be about 2769(t ons/day) today but the 
problem is essentially urban and a major percentage of the waste is generated in the W estern p rovince.

<!-- page 81 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
81a
  According to the study carried out by CEA, 46 major dumping sites have been identified, out of which, more than 
80 % of dumping sites are located in the northern and eastern provinces. approximately 95 % of these dumping sites 
are being operated without environmental approval. most of the dumping sites are open dumps and 04 % of dumping 
sites have used bare land and other sites are located in wetlands and marshy land directly or indirectly connected to 
the Coastal Zone. there is also the problem of garbage littering beaches near squatter settlements and tourist resorts 
and indiscriminate solid waste dumping within the shore area. accumulation of solid waste on beaches results in 
degradation of water and floatable visual pollutants along the shoreline.  The main constraint faced by many local 
authorities is inadequate facilities for safe disposal of solid waste due to the lack of environmentally safe dumping 
sites. Table 4.6 depicts the amount of daily solid waste collected by municipalities in coastal provinces.
Table 4- 6 Amount of Solid Waste collected in Municipalities in Coastal Provinces
Coastal Province Generation Amount 
per day/Ton
Collection Amount 
per day/Ton
Collection 
Percentage
Number of final 
disposal sites
Western 3502 1793 52% 52
southern 1158 264 8% 60
North Western 1134 187 5% 45
eastern 785 347 10% 40
Northern 566 178 5% 16
Total 7145 2769 38% 214
Source: Mervin Lal et al. (2020) Sri Lanka Journal of Social Sciences 09(01):72-85
 4.3.8  Pollution from Agriculture and Aquaculture   
  Agriculture
  the current information revealed that the use of chemical pesticides, herbicides, and fungicides in agriculture is at 
a significant level some of which are persistent. These substances degrade the soil as it absorbs contaminants in the 
leachate, culminating in the pollution of groundwater. polluted groundwater used for agriculture and the resultant 
runoff from agricultural lands contaminates coastal surface waters. In addition, the excessive use of fertilizers 
causes nitrate pollution in coastal areas. as per the current estimates 396,888.8
 mt  of Urea, 144776 mt  of mOp  
(muriate of potash), and 109,708 mt  of tsp  (t riple super phosphate), have been imported for agricultural purposes 
in 2012. as per the National Output, expenditure, and income (2021), in 2018, the (wholesale) fertilizer issues for 
the major crops of t ea, rubber, Coconut and paddy were 166,000 mt , 8,582,000 mt , 53,076,000 mt  and 111,000 
mt  respectively. most of the pollutants from the agriculture sector come to the coastal areas through radial river 
network in the country. In this respect, Kelani River has been identified as the largest transporter of the fertilizer 
and pesticide runoff to the coastal areas from the tea estates. It is also reported that Mahaveli River Estuary has been 
polluted with agrochemicals discharged by mahaveli “h” region.
The impact of agriculture on water pollution
On The SMA programme will be formulated in compliance with legal provisions and the new 
regulations as pee of the adverse impacts of the green revolution is the trend towards the  high use 
of agrochemicals due to the use of new high yielding varieties in 
agriculture that are very susceptible 
to various pests and diseases and have increased nutrition requirements. Consequently, the artificial 
fertilizer importation and use in Sri Lanka has increased significantly. According to the 2012 figures, 
396888 MT of urea, 144776 MT of MOP and 109708 MT of  STP have been imported for agricultural 
purposes. As per the National Output, Expenditure and Income (2021), in 2018, the (wholesale) 
fertilizer          issues for the major crops of Tea, Rubber, Coconut and Paddy were 166,000 MT, 
8,582,000 MT, 53,076,000 MT and 111,000 MT respectively. These figures demonstrate the magnitude 
of the. chemical fertilizer usage in    the country and possibility of coastal water pollution

<!-- page 82 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
82a
Aquaculture
  much of the coastal pollution in the north-western province has been attributed to ad hoc development of shrimp 
farming leading to the discharge of high loads of effluents from shrimp ponds. This has caused considerable pollution 
in the Dutch Canal and the surrounding coastal areas. Discharge of effluents into the Dutch Canal also led to spreading 
of diseases and collapse of the shrimp industry in the N orth-western province. high levels of nitrates and phosphates 
released from shrimp farms into the coastal waters have caused eutrophication of nearby water courses in the region 
and pollution of ground water. in considering the importance of eradicating the pollution level of the dutch Canal, 
government had to spend approximately rs. 130 million on rehabilitation measures. Table 4.7 depicts the status of 
water quality during the final part of the pond harvesting.
  many aquaculture developments are planned in the northern and eastern provinces, both overland and in nearshore 
or lagoon water bodies and a possibility exists for significant coastal water pollution, if proper waste management 
measures are not adopted.
Table 4- 7: Water Quality in Farm Effluents during the Final Part of Pond       Harvesting
Small scale farms Medium scale farms
salinity 07- 45 08-43
ph 8.1-9.6 7.9- 9.5
t otal ammonia (ppm) 0.628 - > 3.5 0.52- > 3.5
Nitrite (ppm) 0.624 - 4.92 0.65- 5.78
Nitrate (ppm) 2.6 - 5.2 2.5 - 4.8
phosphate (ppm) 2.9 -3.3 2.5 - 3.6
    sulphide (ppm) 5.6- 7.2 4.4 - 6.8
    dissolved oxygen (ppm) 1.6 - 2.6 1.8 - 2.4
    t otal suspended solids (ppm) 522 - 1380 496- 1240
    
Source: COREA – ASLE 2009 Pollution from Oil Spills and Other Discharges
 4.3.9  Pollution from oil spills, other discharges and fishery harbours
 
Sri Lanka has six commercial ports around the island and oil pollution is a common pollution identified. Waste oil 
from oil tankers, discharge of oil in bilge and ballast waters, cleaning out of fuel tanks and repair and maintenance 
work by motorized fishing boats and ships around ports and fisheries harbours cause minor oil discharges and 
slicks. according to few studies carried out on water quality in Galle and Colombo harbor areas, it was revealed 
that the levels of bOd, COd, N and faecal coliform are higher than the proposed standard values for nature 
Shrimp farm effluents reaching the Dutch Canal are high in total suspended solids (200-600 
mg/l) and have high BOD levels (60-180 mg/l). These effluents cause heavy siltation in the canal, 
increasing turbidity. High 
sulphides and ammonia levels in these waters are also attributed 
to shrimp farm effluents.
Six major commercial ports located around the island contribute to pollution of coastal waters 
due to accidental release of oil. Poor reception facilities for waste oil, ballast and bilge waters 
cause the port waters to be polluted. Such facilities, as well as pollution abatement plans, are 
a vital requirement to ensure pollution free Ports

<!-- page 83 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
83a
conservation (Compendium on Coastal pollution, 2014). although the minor oil discharges and slicks may not 
cause serious impacts, they result in visual pollution leading to depreciation of the aesthetic quality of the beaches 
for recreation. there have also been four moderate spills of crude oil reported in sri Lanka’s marine waters and 
intrusion of tar balls on to the beaches. as they pose a risk to coastal habitats and species, abatement plans for oil 
discharges are required. Waste oil from service stations also end up in coastal waters, underlining the need for 
service stations to intercept the oil with interceptors. Currently most lack these devices and even when present 
they are often defective. There are specific arrangements for the disposal of waste oil from ships that call at the 
port of Colombo during loading or  unloading of cargo. about 36 private companies are registered with the marine 
environment protection authority (mepa) to collect the oil waste, which is pumped into bowsers directly from the 
ships. Table 4.8 depicts the waste oil collected by the operators over the past six years at the Colombo port. even 
so the final disposal of this oil is not monitored by any regulating authority.
Table 4- 8: Amounts of Waste Collected or Removed by Collectors in the         Colombo Port
Year Quantity
2016 22871m 3
2017 26382m 3
2018 23835m 3
2019 27145m
3
2020 29598m
3
2021 29889m 3
Source: b ased on mepa  Wrs permits 2022
  Despite green harbor concept advocated by CFHC, water quality in the majority of the fisheries harbours have 
been degraded and exposed to severe oil pollution, organic pollution and faecal contamination. further it was reported that 
discharge of burnt oil, bilge water from fishing vessels, discharge of fish waste from fish degutting, accidental oil spillage 
during refueling and solid waste discharge from boat repairing as main sources and activities that led to increased pollution 
(Nirosha et al. 2013)
 4.3.10 The Development of Maritime, Energy and Tourism Hubs and Potential Threat of Pollution
  as per the government policy framework, three main economic hubs vis. t ourism, maritime, and energy hubs to 
be mainly located in the coastal region. A significant growth in the tourism sector has taken place in recent years 
with increasing tourist arrivals until 2018 after which the tourism sector after which it was significantly affected 
due to easter bombings in april 2019 and the Covid pandemic conditions (Figure 4.1). a  strategic plan for sri 
Lanka t ourism 2022-2025 has been prepared by the sL tda  for recovery and expansion of the tourist sector in the 
country. the activities related to the development of maritime hub mainly deal with development of commercial 
harbours and related facilities on mass scale. in this respect the existing commercial harbours such as Colombo, 
hambantota, t rincomalee and Galle will be developed. plans have been developed by the sLpa  to develop the 
Galle port as a regional recreational and commercial port. the potential pollution threat from these developments 
cannot be ignored. thus, it is essential to incorporate proper pollution mitigation measures at the planning stage and 
related issues should be addressed comprehensively.
      

<!-- page 84 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
84a
Figure 4- 1: Tourist Arrivals in Sri Lanka (2001-2020)
Source: Annual Statistical Report 2020, SLTDA
 4.3.11 Current Status of Coastal Water Quality in selected Coastal Segments
  Although the continuous and spatially specific data on coastal water quality parameters were not available, an attempt 
was made to determine the conditions of water quality in 25 sampling locations from Norachcholai to Nilaveli using 
data gathered from different sources by Lanka Hydraulic Institute (LHI) under the study commissioned in 2014 by 
the CC & Crmd. a  description of the sa mpling locations is given in Table 4.9.
Table 4- 9: Description of Sampling Locations
Location Description
Norachcholai Close to coal fired thermal power plant
Chilaw beach famous bathing site
ambakandawila Water intakes located near shrimp 
hatcheries
marawila bathing site, tourism, industries, hatcheries
Negombo b each bathing site, tourism activities
Kelani river mouth river outfall
mutwal Waste water sea outfall
Colombo Commercial harbor
Wellawatta Waste water sea outfall
mount Lavinia bathing site, tourism activities
Wadduwa bathing site, tourism activities
Kalutara - moragalla bathing site, tourism activities
beruwala bathing site, tourism activities
bentota bathing site, tourism activities
hikkaduwa bathing site, tourism activities
Galle Commercial harbor


<!-- page 85 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
85a
Location Description
Unawatuna bathing site, tourism activities
Koggala industry, t ourism
Weligama Tourism, fishing activities
polhena bathing site, t ourism activities
bata-atha industry
t angalle bathing site, tourism activities
mirijjawila industry, tourism
arugam bay bathing site, tourism activities
Nilaveli bathing site tourism activities
               Source: CC&CRMD 2014
  During the water quality data analysis, attention was paid by the study team on analyzing parameters such as pH, 
dissolve Oxygen (dO), biochemical Oxygen demand (bOd), Chemical Oxygen demand (COd), t otal Nitrogen 
(tN), t otal Coliform (tC), faecal Coliform (fC) and Oil and Grease. accordingly, it was revealed that ph levels 
in sampling locations stayed within natural coastal water quality conditions reflecting a pH level of 7.8 and 8.4. 
the dO levels in the sample locations except Colombo do not indicate depletion below the standards. in terms of 
bOd levels, the analysis revealed that mutwal, Wellawatta and Galle satisfy only the Cea  non-consumption use 
standards while all other sampling locations do not satisfy both bathing and non-consumption use standards. as per 
the Cea  standards for bathing, the recommended COd value must be lower than 20/mg 1 l. however, mutwal and 
Kelani River Mouth have satisfied CEA bathing standards and the COD values of all other locations do not satisfy 
both standards. Although the CEA has not specified a standard, acceptable range is 2 mg/l to 6 mg/l. According to 
the analysis, it was indicated that tN values measured in Kelani river mouth, mutwal, Colombo, and Wellawatta 
were not in an acceptable range. this situation may be due to discharge of untreated sewage and contamination by 
fertilizer. In accordance with CEA standard for bathing, TC value has to be lower than 1000 MPN/100 ml while the 
recommended value for non-consumption uses, value has to be lower than 2000 mpN/100 ml. the analysis revealed 
that t C concentration values for non-consumption uses in all sampling locations are well within the non-consumption 
use standard. however, famous bathing sites such as mount Lavinia, Kalutara, Unawatuna, bentota and polhena 
are not safe for direct contact activities. Concerning feacal coliform (fC), the acceptable bathing standard has to be 
lower than 50 mpN/100ml and for non-consumption uses has to be lower than 600mpN/100ml. the analysis shows 
higher fC concentration than the acceptable levels for bathing in all sampling locations except in beruwala, Galle 
and mirijjawila sampling locations. further, fC values in Norachcholai, Chilaw, marawila, Wadduwa, bentota, 
Koggala, Unawatuna, Weligama, t angalle and bata-atha satisfy the non-consumption use standards. the oil and 
grease content of all sampling locations shows higher concentration in monsoon periods. however, it has to be lower 
than 200 mg/l.
 4.4 PLANS, POLICIES AND IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES
  although the coastal pollution is one of the major environmental issues in the Coastal Zone, it was not addressed in 
the first-generation Coastal Zone Management Plan of 1990. However, in considering the importance and priority, it 
had been brought in to the revised CZmps of 1997, 2004 and the CC&Crmp  of 2018. besides policies, strategies and 
actions introduced through CZmps and the CC&Crmp , there are many policies, laws and programmes in place that 
have a bearing on controlling pollution including coastal water pollution. for instance, major development projects 
taking place in the Coastal Zone (except fishing) are subject to Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) procedures. 
these include the prescribed projects listed in the National environmental act, No. 56 of 1988, with the CC&Crmd 
functioning as the Project Approving Agency and other projects in the Coastal Zone identified by the DG of the 
CC&Crmd as those require undergoing eia  procedure.
  In 2020, the Ministry of Environment introduce National Waste Management  Policy to make all the citizens and 
institutions legally responsible to engage in waste management, sensitize citizens, institutions, waste mangers and 

<!-- page 86 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
86a
service  providers continuously on the need to be accountable and responsible to manage wastes,  ensure availability of 
facilities and infrastructure for treatment and final disposal,  minimize final disposal of waste by retaining its resource 
utilization value throughout the life cycle, enhance effectiveness and efficiencies of existing waste management 
systems/practices and promote new systems for avoidance, prevention and/or minimization of waste with appropriate 
technology and practices, improve efficiencies and effectiveness of existing appropriate markets, promote new markets 
with appropriate innovative technologies and partnerships, reduce risks to public health, environment, and ecosystems 
and improve occupational health & safety of waste handlers; and  enhance effective partnerships to meet international 
obligations in waste management moving beyond compliance.
  the vital regulatory tools in place that could curtail industrial pollution up to some extent in coastal waters are the eia  
procedures and the e nvironmental pollution Licensing (epL) scheme. t he latter is mandatory for the prescribed activities 
under the Gazette notification extraordinary No. 1159/22 dated 22nd November 2000. an epL can be obtained from 
the Cea, bOi or a Local authority and is valid for three years. even so, lapses in enforcement of pollution control and 
poor technology for pollution abatement in a large number of industries result in coastal water pollution from industrial 
sources.
  despite the pollution control activities being carried out by other institutions such as Cea, mC , NWsdb, and mepa, 
the CC&CRMD is also currently engaged in various corrective and preventive activities to either control or minimize 
water pollution in the Coastal Zone. Many of these activities require mechanisms for effective coordination and 
collaboration with other institutions and agencies. for instance, the NWsdb is responsible for providing good quality 
water and adequate sanitation in rural and urban areas at the national level. the problem of inadequate sanitation for 
underserved settlements in Colombo is also being addressed by many agencies.
  although water quality monitoring is essentially a pre-requisite for mitigation of pollution in coastal waters, there is 
so far no single institution mandated with legal responsibility for regular water quality monitoring in the nearshore 
waters, lagoons and estuaries, and inland in the Coastal Zone. the mepa  is mandated to control the pollution of marine 
waters, but only when it involves offshore sources. Several agencies such as the BOI, CEA and CC&CRMD, however, 
have the authority to monitor water quality in the Coastal Zone and to regulate discharges from development activities. 
additionally, some line agencies such as Nara, NWsdb, sLrdC and iti and the universities and other research 
institutions carry out monitoring and research from time to time.
  Sri Lanka is yet to develop ambient water quality standards for different uses of coastal waters. The CEA has proposed 
ambient water quality standards for different uses of coastal waters. However,  it is require to review the changes in 
water quality due to seasonal effects in detail  and have to be addressed more adequately before finalization. Ambient 
water quality standards for inland surface water (i.e. any standing or flowing water on the surface of the land extending 
up to the boundary of the coastal water) have been gazetted  in 2019 (No. 2148/20 - tUesday , NOVember 05, 
2019). the government’s decision to establish more industrial parks where facilities for pollution abatement will be 
provided will be a major step towards reducing pollution incidences in coastal waters. the government has also prepared 
a National solid Waste management strategy based on suitable regulatory controls necessary for its implementation. 
Regulations for the control of collection, storage, transport, and disposal of hazardous waste were gazetted in 1996, 
and the Ministry of Environment has introduced a hazardous waste management system through the licensing scheme 
as per the regulations stipulated under part 11 of the National environmental (protection and Quality) regulations  
No. 1 of 2008. On the other hand, addressing non-point sources - including pollution from agrochemicals - is difficult 
as there are no specific policies and effective implementation mechanisms to address such problems.
 4.5 FuTuRE DIRECTIONS FOR MANAGING COASTAL POLLuTION
  t o ensure the sustainability of the economic development thrust put in place on the coastal region, it is essential to 
manage coastal pollution by formulating and implementing adequate strategies. in addition to the regulatory measures 
focusing on compliance, it is necessary to adopt comprehensive and effective programmes targeting awareness creation, 
infrastructure development, research, monitoring of point and non-point sources  and water use zonation schemes.
  although the problem of coastal pollution including water area, beach and  the coastal land is a major issue to be 
addressed in the management of coastal resources, the CC&CRMD cannot tackle this problem alone. Taking cognizance 

<!-- page 87 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
87a
of the  large number of institutions and agencies that play a role in coastal pollution control, there is a clear need for 
integrated coastal zone management based on collaborative arrangements. This will require considerable strengthening 
of the     capabilities of the Provincial Agencies and the Local Authorities to play an effective role in monitoring coastal 
water bodies and compliance checking within their jurisdiction. a  budgetary allocation to monitor coastal pollution by 
each provincial agency/Local authority is required for spatial and temporal water quality monitoring at pre- determined 
sites. proper water quality indices should be developed to enable the ranking of coastal water resources, and appropriate 
interventions are required to rectify conditions in coastal water bodies that are of poor quality.
  Laws and regulations as well as awareness creation should be strengthened to regulate major sources of pollution; 
thereby reducing pollution loads entering coastal waters. more stringent enforcement mechanisms should also be in 
place to reduce the frequency and magnitude of major pollution incidences in coastal waters. additionally, careful 
attention should be placed on formulation and introduction of a coastal water zoning scheme in compliance with the 
sensitive economic activities which are expanding in the coastal region.
 4.5.1. Requirement of Coastal Water Usage Zoning Scheme and Specified Criteria
  To minimize issues pertaining to coastal water pollution and to ensure sustainability of economic activities in the 
coastal region, water usage zoning should be introduced based on sound socio-economic and ecological information. 
Zoning is commonly employed as a land and water use planning and regulatory tool to guide and direct the type of 
development most favorable or advantageous to the growth and development of an area considering the ecological 
constraints and the socio-economic objectives. Water zoning scheme can ensure that different development activities 
take place at the sustainable level that maximizes the benefits and limits negative impacts on the environment. In 
addition, zoning can be used to separate different incompatible uses and to minimize user conflicts while conserving 
the coastal ecosystems.
Requirements for successful implementation of water zoning scheme
 (i) presence of legal mandate and adequate legal provisions
 (ii) sound ecological and socio-economic information on the target environment
 (iii) Local participation in enforcement
 (iv) shared governance and partnership
 (v) Ensuring sustainable financing
 (vi) Involving all stakeholders in zonal planning process
 (vii) Acknowledging multiple uses of marine and coastal zones early in the planning process
 (viii) Law enforcement agencies need to be made aware of the zones.
  To prevent pollution in sensitive areas of coastal waters, it is necessary to classify it into different zones as indicated 
in the Table 4.10.
in view of the current economic development pressures and the rapid population growth taking place in the coastal 
region, it is necessary to pay careful attention to adopting coastal water zoning scheme in the near future. Thus, an attempt 
has to be made to fulfill the important pre-requisites to formulate coastal water zoning scheme through this plan. Until water 
zoning is adopted, the new legal provisions introduced on “Affected    Areas” and “Conservation Areas” through Coast 
Conservation amendment act, No. 49 of 2011 could be used to achieve similar objectives at least up to some extent.

<!-- page 88 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
88a
Table 4- 10: Proposed Classifications for Coastal Water Usage Zoning
Description Usage
recreation Water contact recreation non-water contact recreation
Nature Conservation ecosystem conservation, science and
education, aesthetic enjoyment
Fishery of Shellfish
Fishery of shellfish (Mollusca) Aquaculture of shellfish (Mollusca) Salt 
pans
Ornamental production
Fishery of Finfish
Fishery of finfish Aquaculture of finfish
fishery of non-mollusk invertebrates aquaculture of non-mollusk 
invertebrates
Non-consumptive uses
Non-water contact recreation Navigation
harbour
sand mining
mineral extraction
Consumptive uses
drinking (after desalination) 
domestic purposes
 4.6 MANAGEMENT OBJECTIvES, POLICIES, STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS
Objective 1
  Acceptable water quality for different beneficial designated uses is maintained by adhering to regulations/guidelines 
stipulated on the discharge of untreated or/and partially treated effluents from development activities to coastal and 
marine waters.
Policy 1.1
  all existing development activities will be managed in terms of water quality by Cea  emissions standards or National 
environmental (protection and Quality) regulations
Strategy 1.1.1
  Ensure that all existing development activities in the coastal region (comply with CEA standards for effluents discharge 
through regular monitoring of coastal water quality.
Proposed Actions
 1. expand, strengthen, and continue the ongoing water quality monitoring programme of CC & Crmd to check ambient 
water quality in the coastal waters to capture high incidences of pollution and help identify polluting development 
activities in the area.
 2. Direct findings of the monitoring studies to the relevant institutions for necessary actions.
 3. identify low and high-polluting development activities in the coastal region and prepare a database in collaboration 
with the Cea.
 4. t ake necessary and appropriate actions to ensure that development activities likely to pollute the Coastal Zone and 
coastal waters adhere to Cea  standards  on disposal of effluents.

<!-- page 89 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
89a
 5. Promote the formulation of effluent standards for those development activities that do not have disposal standards (e.g., 
for aquaculture, reject water from desalination plants), in collaboration with the relevant authorities.
Policy 1.2
  High-polluting industries will be scrutinized to ensure that the ambient water  quality in the Coastal Zone is not impaired.
Strategy 1.2.1
  Identify high-polluting industries and facilitate their access to technology for controlling the emission of effluents 
degrading ambient water quality of the Coastal Zone; encourage and assist relevant authorities responsible for scrutinizing 
such industries regularly.
Proposed Actions
 1.  Co-ordinate with the relevant authorities and stakeholders by providing necessary information on high-polluting 
industries through regular monitoring in the Coastal Zone.
 2.  f acilitate access to information on technology providers for pollution abatement and on cleaner production technologies 
among industries affecting the Coastal Zone.
 3. Assist the relevant agency in providing possible financial incentives to industries to enable them to obtain better pollution 
abatement technologies.
 4. Conduct outreach programmes to create awareness among high-polluting industries located in the on the importance 
of maintaining a pollution-free Coastal Zone.
Policy 1.3
  Development activities resulting in the emission of effluent/wastewater to be discharged into designated environmentally 
sensitive areas/conservation areas will be managed strictly adhering to special conditions on ambient water quality.
Strategy 1.3.1
  Carry out periodic monitoring in the Coastal Zone at selected sites to check whether new developments can be permitted 
in them without exceeding the maximum permissible levels of ambient coastal water quality standards/parameters 
stipulated in the guidelines prepared by CC&Crmd/Cea  for various designated uses.
Proposed Actions
 1. select sites of critical economic/ecological importance in the Coastal Zone and establish ambient water quality for each 
site with spatial and temporal water quality monitoring. identify potential designated use/s within Conservation areas 
and Affected Areas to be declared under the provisions of the Coast Conservation Amendment Act, No. 49 of 2011 
in consultation with other relevant authorities/ stakeholders and make regulations to control other uses/development 
activities.
 2. identify sites where new developments can be permitted, based on designated use/s and ambient water quality of the 
site.
 3.  Carry out a study to identify likely sources of pollution at ‘Critical sites’/Conservation areas where ambient water quality 
in the Coastal Zone does not match designated use/s, and propose appropriate interventions for pollution abatement to 
enable further development.

<!-- page 90 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
90a
Objective 2
  Coastal and marine Water Quality in the Coastal Zone is enhanced by management of pollution sources.
Policy 2.1
  any type of waste or foreign matter either disposed of in the Coastal Zone directly or disposed of elsewhere but the 
impact is felt within the Coastal Zone will be managed so as not to affect water quality in the Coastal Zone adversely.
Strategy 2.1.1
  Encourage and mobilize relevant authorities to prepare waste management plans to reduce adverse impacts on water 
pollution in the Coastal Zone.
Proposed Action
 1. formulate and implement a programme to prepare plans at appropriate levels (i.e. local/regional/national) to control 
the dumping of solid waste in the Coastal Zone by Local authorities.
 2. Identify urban centres, industries, coastal tourist centers, fishing harbours and other areas emitting solid waste for which 
solid waste plans are urgently needed.
 3. assisting Local authorities to identify alternate dump sites in environmentally less vulnerable locations for relocation 
of dump sites in the Coastal Zone.
 4. Monitor the environmental degradation of sites located within the Coastal Zone affected by the dumping of solid waste.
 5. encourage and assist relevant Local authorities to implement environmentally sound ways of waste minimisation 
(as an alternative to haphazard dumping of solid waste in the Coastal Zone) through projects for composting, biogas 
generation, etc.
 6. Frame regulations to curtail dumping of solid waste into designated “Conservation Areas”, “Affected Areas” and 
declared “special management areas”.
Policy 2.2
  feacal pollution of coastal and marine waters in the Coastal Zone will be managed with collaborative action with Local 
authorities and other relevant agencies.
Strategy 2.2.1
  Identify coastal waters/ sites in the Coastal Zone where faecal pollution exceeds specified threshold levels for designated 
uses and address the problem in collaboration with Local authorities.
Proposed Actions
 1. decide on critical sites where faecal contamination should be curtailed in the Coastal Zone, using selection criteria.
 2. monitor such sites that are extensively used for various designated uses such as contact.
 3. make the Local authorities aware of the problem and the sites and assist them in reducing faecal contamination.
 4. Provide findings of the monitoring studies carried out on water quality in the Coastal Zone at respective sites to the, 
sL tda, hoteliers a nd relevant civil societies as appropriate, so that they can assist in taking corrective action.

<!-- page 91 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
91a
Policy 2.3
  Oil spills in the Coastal Zone will be managed to minimize the degradation of coastal resources.
Strategy 2.3.1
  identify the major sources of oil discharge in the Coastal Zone and formulate curative/remedial action in collaboration 
with relevant authorities.
Proposed Actions
  Coordinate with mepa  to identify sources of oil discharges into the Coastal Zone.
  formulate and implement programmes with relevant authorities to reduce or capture oil discharge into the Coastal 
Zone, particularly in harbours and sma  sites.
  promote and assist CfhC in implementing the green harbor concept.
  Conduct awareness programmes together with mepa, CfhC, dfar, and pa  (?) to make stakeholders aware of the 
need to minimize oil pollution.
Policy 2.4
  Salinization of the coastal and marine waters will be managed within the Coastal Zone in a manner that will not create 
adverse impacts on ambient water quality.
Strategy 2.4.1
  Identify the major sources of nitrate pollution and causes of high salinization and implement collaborative remedial 
action.
Proposed Actions
 1. Identify likely areas with high nitrate pollution and salinization, based on objective criteria.
 2. Monitor sites affected and collaborate with relevant authorities to reduce the pollution mentioned above.
 3. make the Local authorities aware of the problem and assist them in reducing faecal contamination at sites that are 
known to be highly polluted, sites of high economic value, critical ecosystems, places of scenic beauty or archaeological 
and cultural value.
Objective 3
  pollutants entering coastal and marine waters in the Coastal Zone are estimated through regular monitoring and research  
and development.
Policy 3.1
  identify pollution loads in major surface waters entering the Coastal Zone, and enable improving water quality in 
collaboration with relevant agencies.
Strategy 3.1.1
  identify pollution loads in major surface waters entering the Coastal Zone, and enable improving water quality in 
collaboration with relevant agencies.

<!-- page 92 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
92a
Proposed Action
 1.  identify the surface water bodies that are conveying pollutants into coastal and marine waters and estimate the pollution 
loads during dry and wet weather flows.
 2. assist Local authorities/Cea  and other relevant authorities to take necessary steps to reduce high pollutant loads by 
providing the necessary information.
 3. Collaborate with other competent agencies for possible research on water quality improvements in such water bodies.
Policy 3.2
  Collaborative activities will be carried out to reduce the pollution of coastal groundwater.
Strategy 3.2.1
  Collaborative activities on surveillance of groundwater quality and quantity will be undertaken in the Coastal Zone to 
ascertain the likely changes.
Proposed Action
 1. select critical sites of high economic value in the Coastal Zone, and monitor water quality of such sites with designated 
water uses.
 2. assist relevant authorities in abating incidences of coastal groundwater pollution.
Objective 4
  Coastal and marine water pollution in the Coastal Zone is managed through education and the dissemination and sharing 
of information using strategic communication.
Policy 4.1
  Collaborative programmes will be undertaken with relevant agencies/NGOs to educate stakeholders on pollution 
sources, effects  and impacts, and control mechanisms.
Strategy 4.1.1
  Undertake collaborative programmes with competent agencies for training and skills development for the improvement 
of water quality in the Coastal Zone.
Proposed Action
 1. Carry out a needs assessment to identify the target groups and specific issues and  needs that are to be addressed.
 2. Identify pressure groups and communication mobilizers to collaborate with for effective training and awareness creation 
programmes and formulation of collaborative programmes.
 3. t rain relevant personnel from the target groups for professional development on water pollution abatement and provide 
awareness on pollution sources/types, level of pollution, and abatement methods.
Policy 4.2
  t arget groups directly or indirectly involved with pollutant emission will be identified and made aware of the adverse 
impacts of coastal and marine water pollution and pollution reduction mechanisms.

<!-- page 93 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
93a
Strategy 4.2.1
  Carry out appropriate awareness programmes in collaboration with relevant partner organisations/communication 
mobilizers to educate target groups (school children, people polluting the environment, Local Authorities, policymakers, 
etc.) connected with coastal pollution.
Proposed Action
 1. Together with communication partners /relevant organizations, carry out a needs assessment to gauge the target groups 
and specific issues for which awareness creation/communication activity is required.
 2. Formulate and carry out customized training/awareness programmes for selected target groups based on communication 
needs.
 3. Organize workshops and campaigns for school children to reduce the pollution incidences in the Coastal Zone.
 4. Put up signboards and distribute leaflets to get public participation in coastal pollution control efforts.
Objective 5 
  Coastal pollution due to solid waste   and marine litter will be minimized through a multifaceted collaborative management 
approach 
Policy 5.1 
  Coastal pollution due to dumping of solid waste and discharge of marine litter into a coastal zone will be recognized 
as high-priority management issue that requires multifaceted management interventions.
Strategy 5.1.1 
  assessment of impact pathways (tracking waste generation) and   degree of social, environmental, and economic 
impacts of dumping/discharge  of solid waste and marine litter/microplastic into the coastal zone 
Proposed Action
 1.  Conduct a study   to determine the nature, origin, and spatial distribution/characteristics of the   solid waste/microplastics 
in the coastal zone   
 2. Identify significant hotspots to formulate marine debris pollution management plans 
Strategy 5.1.2
  Effective institutional mechanism will be established in collaborative manner to manage pollution due to solid waste 
in the coastal zone.
Proposed action
 1. Promote and strengthen collaborative management with effective participation of local authorities, MEPA, SLTB, and 
CEA to minimize coastal pollution due to solid waste in the coastal zone
 2.  promote the establishment of dedicated incentive scheme for the local authority workers engage in solid waste 
management in the coastal zone with the patronage of private sector

<!-- page 94 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
94a
Policy 5.2 Promote   behavioral instruments, which use people’s social preferences and/or cognitive limitations to influence 
behavior in favor of lower plastic pollution.
Strategy 5.2.1
  design and implement   behavioral interventions constitute of information provision, pure nudges,and moral nudges 
to reduce disposal of plastic litter into the coastal environment.
Proposed Actions
 1. strengthen local authorities as well as the civil society through proper awareness creation programmes to enable to 
fostering an overall attitude change in consumption and disposal behaviours.
 2. Implement door-to-door information campaign among tourist hotels, coastal dwellers and fishing communities with 
the participation of civil society organizations.
 3. promote corporate sponsorship for beach cleanup initiatives.
Policy 5.3 promote upstream management of solid waste entering the waterways directly or indirectly connected to the 
coastal zone.
Strategy 5.3.1
  Coordinate to establish a participatory institutional mechanism constituted with local authorities, the department of 
Irrigation, community groups (river and canal bank dwellers), and Non-governmental organizations to prevent solid 
waste entering the waterways  
Proposed Action
 1. Assess the significance of solid waste entering into the upstream areas of the waterways connected to the coastal zone.
 2. formulate an outreach programme to educate and make aware river/canal bank dwellers.
 3. Establish waste traps with the collaboration of relevant organizations.
Policy 5.4: promote sharing of data and information collected through monitoring, research, and development on coastal 
pollution in the coastal zone and from influenced areas to enable to develop effective management strategies and action. 
Strategy 5.4.1 
  Develop an institutional network for the collaborate sharing of data and information on coastal pollution, utilize new 
technologies, engage communities, and leverage international cooperation.
Proposed Action
 1. Create a centralized platform to enable sharing of coastal pollution-related data and information.
 2. establish an institutional network constituting agencies involved in coastal pollution-related research, monitoring, 
regulating, development, and awareness creation.
 3. Create public data portals where researchers and the public can freely access non-sensitive data related to coastal 
pollution.

<!-- page 95 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
95a
 4. Utilize Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to visualize and analyze spatial data on coastal pollution.
 5. Launch an awareness creation programme among institutions to promote monitoring of data-sharing practices for 
coastal pollution control. 
 6. develop and implement ethical guidelines to ensure responsible use and sharing of coastal pollution data among 
institutions leading to better-informed decisions. 
REFERENCES
1. arjuna’s atlas of Sri Lanka, ed. t . somasekaram, m.p . perera, and h. Godellawatta, dehiwala: arjuna Consulting 
Co. Ltd., 1997.
2. Bandarathilake, K. G. d. 1999. Hazardous Waste Management in Sri Lanka. Paper presented at Sub Regional 
Training Seminar for the Implementation of the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of 
Hazardous Waste and their disposal. mar. 15-19, 1999. Colombo.
3. Central bank of sri Lanka, 2001. Annual Report of 2000. Colombo: Central bank of  sri Lanka, sri Lanka.
4. Central bank of sri Lanka, 2002. Annual Report of 2001. Colombo: Central bank of sri Lanka, sri Lanka.
5. Central environmental authority (2016), directory of prescribed activities in sri Lanka. (industrial database)
6. Central environmental authority, 2005, database of municipal solid Waste management.
7. Coast Conservation department, 2014, information Compendium on Coastal pollution, (Unpublished report).
8. Coast Conservation department, Revised Coastal Zone Management Plan, 2004
9. Corea asCe, 2009, Trends in Water Quality changes in Main Water Sources for Shrimp Culture and the need for 
Standards for Shrimp Farms Effluents
10. Corea, a.s.L.f ., J. m. p . K. Jayasinghe, s. U. K. ekaratne and s. d. Johnston, 1995. Environmental impact of prawn 
farming on Dutch canal: the main water source for the prawn culture industry in Sri Lanka, AMBIO (24): 423-427
11. department of Census and statistics, 2001. Census of Population and Housing 2001: preliminary release . Colombo:, 
department of Census and statistics.
12. department of Government printing, 1992, Gazette Extraordinary 595/16 of 02.02.92
13. department of Government printing, 2008 Gazette Extra Ordinary 1534/18 dated  01.02.2008.o.
14. Jayaweera, m. 1999. Environmental Improvement Study, Port of Colombo. Unpubl. sri Lanka ports authority.
15. manage, p ., Liyanage, G., abinaiyan, i., madusanka, d., & bandara, K. (2022). pollution levels in sri Lanka’s 
west-south coastal waters: making progress toward a cleaner environment. regional studies in marine science, 
51, 102193. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rsma.2022.102193
16. manchanayake, e.p . and C. m. madduma bandara, 1999. Water resources of sri Lanka. Colombo: National science 
foundation.
17. marine pollution prevention authority, 2002. database on accidental spills in sri Lankan waters.
18. ministry of environment (2020) National Waste management policy.
19. mOeNr. 2002. State of the Environment in Sri Lanka: a Report for SAARC , compiled and ed. J d s dela. Colombo: 
ministry of environment and Natural resources.

<!-- page 96 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
96a
20. mOfe (1999). Database of Municipal Waste in Sri Lanka. Colombo: ministry of forestry and environment.
21. mOfe, 2000. The National Strategy for Solid Waste Management. Colombo: ministry of forestry and environment, 
sri Lanka.
22. mOfe, 2001. State of the Environment. Sri Lanka. Colombo: ministry of forestry and environment.
23. mubarak, a.m. 2000. Water pollution. in: Natural Resources of Sri Lanka 2000. Colombo: National science 
foundation.
24. p .m. manage et al. (2022), pollution levels in sri Lanka’s west-south coastal waters: making progress toward a 
cleaner environment.
25. status of solid Wastes and its management in the Coastal environments of sri Lanka L y  hitige1, tmWrmb 
samarakoon  international Journal of environment, agriculture and biotechnology V ol-6, issue-5; sep-Oct, 2021.
26. Uda, 1994 b. Colombo Environmental Improvement Project , Colombo: Urban development authority, 1994.
27. Uda, 1994a. Environmental Management Strategy for Colombo Urban Area – (III) : Colombo, Urban development 
authority.
28. University of moratuwa, 2001. Feasibility study report for establishment of a central wastewater treatment plan for 
Ratmalana/Moratuwa industrial/residential areas, Unpublished. University of moratuwa.
29. y ong Chang Jang etal.(2018)  “Composition and abundance of marine debris stranded in beaches of sri Lanka.
30. ms. Johanna doerpinghaus, mr. amarnath munnolimath and ms. Jana hack – adelphi, Germany, mr. samantha 
Kumarasena and ms. Nisansala ranundeniya – National Cleaner production Centre (NCpC), sri Lanka  pOLiCy  
brief (input paper): prevention of marine Litter in sri Lanka-(2021).
31. F. Alpizara,b, et al. , (2020)  A framework for selecting and designing policies to reduce marine plastic pollution in 
developing countries.
32. K.h.h. Niroshana1*, h.b. asanthi2 and p .b.t .p .Kumara (2013), an assessment of water quality and pollution in 
puranawella fish ery harbour, dewinuwara, sri Lanka.
CHAPTER 5 - SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA (SMA)
 5.1 INTRODuCTION
 5.1.1 The Concept
  the Concept of special management areas (sma ’s) previously referred to as special area management (sam) has 
been identified as one of the important management tools in the field of Integrated Coastal Resources Management 
(iCrm) when the coastal resources are subject to increasing pressure from economic development, increasing 
population and poverty conditions in the coastal region in sri Lanka.  in addition, the requirement of a new policy 
Special Management Area (SMA) is a crucial approach to coastal resource management that recognizes 
the unique characteristics and vulnerabilities of specific coastal areas. It focuses on integrating conservation, 
sustainable development, and resource management in a comprehensive manner. The importance of SMA 
in coastal resource management lies in several key aspects: Integrated management approach, conservation 
of coastal bio-diversity, sustainable coastal resource utilization, climate change adaptation, pollution control, 
resilience and disaster risk reduction, and stakeholder engagement and community participation.  

<!-- page 97 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
97a
for an integrated collaborative management approach with specific attention to the social and economic needs of the 
coastal resource users and other stakeholders led to the concept of smas.  furthermore, the need for active involvement 
of the stakeholders of the coastal resources on a site-specific basis was further advocated by various quarters due to 
inadequate outcomes of the other national Coastal Zone management (CZm) policies.  thus, special management 
area planning was conceived as a “bottom-up” approach for managing coastal resources that complements the “top-
down” regulatory approach practiced by the CC&Crmd since its inception.  the concept of special management 
Areas (SMA’s) evolved based on the co-management principles and involves a collaborative, adaptive and flexible 
approach to sustainable resource management within a defined geographic area, was formally introduced as an 
auxiliary CZM policy through the National Coastal Zone Management Plan of 1997. The CZ&CRMP emphasizes 
the implementation of the “bottom up” approach more strongly in planning special management areas.
  prior to formal adoption, the concept was tested on the ground in two pilot sites at the  hikkaduwa and rekawa 
under the Coastal resources management project funded by Usaid in 1992.  the pilot initiative contributed to 
demonstrating the potential of adopting the SMA process as an effective tool to manage coastal resources in a 
collaborative manner.  based on the experience gained from the pilot testing of sma, the report “Coastal 2000; 
Resources Management Strategy for Sri Lana’ s Coastal Region” also recommended the design and implementation 
of Special Management Area Plans for the specific coastal sites with special ecological and economic significance.  
although sma  planning has been tested and formally adopted by the 1997 National CZmp , there were no legal 
provisions to formulate and implement the sma  plans formally until the new legal provisions were introduced 
through the Coast Conservation and Coastal r esource management act, No. 57 of 1981 as amendment act,  
No. 49 of  2011.  thus, at the initial phase of the process, administrative arrangements had been made to formulate 
and implement sma  plans with the involvement of stakeholders constituting the community, local support institutions 
such as Pradeshiya Sabas, Divisional Secretariats, outside local beneficiaries, central government institutions such as 
dWLC, forest department, and the external stakeholders. t hus, stakeholder collaboration is sought through awareness 
creation, education and research formulated according to the Coast Conservation amended act, No. 49 of 2011.
 5.1.2 Evolution and Operational Experience
  The experience gained from the implementation of first generation CZMP prepared in 1990, calls for a greater emphasis 
on local-level stakeholder participation in managing coastal resources.  this requirement stemmed mainly from the 
strong relationship that exists between the coastal resources and the resource users.  the necessity for stakeholder 
participation further flared up with the nature of the open access regime of the coastal resources.  Thus, the SMA 
planning and implementation process has been adopted with the participation of resource users, considering their 
social and economic needs, complementary to the heavy emphasis on command-and-control measures adopted in 
managing coastal resources.
  the initial phase of the sma  planning and implementation in sri Lanka was preceded by two pilot projects at the 
rekawa Lagoon and the hikkaduwa marine sanctuary in 1992.  this initiative was carried out by CC&Crmd with 
the financial and technical assistance provided under the Coastal Resources Management Project (CRMP) of USAID.  
the viability of the sma  concept in the local scenario was tested at both sites.  based on the attractive outcome and 
novel experience gained from these initiatives, the second-generation CZmp  of 1997 endorsed the sma  process 
by recommending the formulation and implementation of special management area (sma) plans for 23 selected 
coastal sites.  in addition, the “Coastal 2000” strategy for coastal resources management also advocated the sma  
concept.  the sma  site selection was based on the following criteria:
 a) the severity of social, economic, and environmental issues prevailing in the sites.
 b) the relative richness and abundance of coastal ecosystems, 
 c) The feasibility of management based on size, location, legal and institutional factors.
 d) the existing or potential value of economic development in the area.

<!-- page 98 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
98 a
 i n addition to the site selection criteria, planning steps to be followed in the planning process were also spelled out 
in the 1997 CZM Plan.  In 2005, CC&CRMD and the International Union for Conservation (IUCN) with financial 
assistance provided by the Global e n vironmental f acility (G ef ) under the United Nations d evelopment p rogramme 
(UN dp ) formulated and implemented a s pecial m anagement a rea p lan for r ekawa, Ussangoda, Kalametiya  
(G ef - r UK) coastal ecosystem covering 20 coastal GN d ’s.  t he goal of this sma  plan was to ensure the sustenance  
of the natural resources of the RUK coastal ecosystem while optimizing the social well-being of the communities 
residing in the 
s pecial m anagement a rea.
 s ubsequently, the CC&C rmd , under the support of the C rmp  of 2000-2007 funded by adb  has extended the 
second round of the fully-fledged SMA process to several sites, namely the Kalpitiya  Bar Reef, Negombo Estuary/
m uthurajawela m arsh, Lunawa Lagoon, m adu Ganga e st uary, h ikkaduwa Nature r e serve and environs, Unawatuna 
b ay including Koggala e stuary, the m awella and Kalametiya Lagoons and the coastal reach in h ambantota.
 in addition to the smap  formulation and implementation in compliance with the 1997 CZ mp , CC&C rmd  has 
introduced the concept and related activities into district-level projects.  t his has led to the incorporation of sma  
planning activities in the h ambantota integrated Coastal Zone m anagement p roject ( hi CZ mp ) funded by NO rad , 
where smap  activities focused on the h ambantota d unes and the m awella Lagoon - Kudawella ( b low hole) 
coastal area.  The main difference in the application of the concept here was that whilst the basic principles were 
the same, operational and administrative procedures were not necessarily similar.  
a nother salient feature here was 
the implementation of some identified activities of the SMA process during the planning phase.
5.2  LESSONS LEARNT  AND DRAWBACKS
 b y and large, the sma  planning and implementation initiatives related to Coastal r esources m anagement in s ri Lanka 
were largely driven by the government sector which was being led by the CC&C rmd .  a  total of 12 sma  plans have 
been formulated and implemented by CC&C rmd  since 1992, under four distinct foreign-funded projects.  d uring 
the last two decades, a number of evaluation/reviews on sma  process in s ri Lanka were carried out by Lowry K et 
al., (1997), ingegerd Landstorm (2006) d e s ilva s anjive et al., (2012), CC&C rmd  (2014). in addition, the in-house 
discussions were carried out among the CC&CRMD officials Based on the findings of the above reviews and evaluations, 
the lessons learned and drawbacks identified from the past experience could be highlighted in the main areas of legal 
and institutional, effectiveness and impacts, sustainability, and challenges as described below:  
5.2.1 Legal and Institutional
 in terms of the legal and institutional aspects of the sma , the following lessons and drawbacks have been experienced 
in the past and are summarized;
• All the formulated and implemented SMA plans demonstrate clear evidence that the administrative or collaborative
arrangement itself is not effective without a proper legal framework.
• The Community Coordinating Committees which have oversight on the implementation of the SMA plans are not
legally recognized in the CC Act or any other statute.  The failure to either statutorily or administratively recognize
the CCC’ s emasculates its authority to implement 
sma  plans.  t he functionality of the Community Coordinating
Committees (CCC) set up under the planning and implementation process of the sma  was at a standstill in all sites
in the absence of a catalytic role and the financial and technical resources of the respective projects.
• The key roles played by the Divisional Secretaries in the planning and implementation process at the initial stages
have disappeared during the post-project process over time due to the absence of legal and institutional recognition
of their role.  In addition, the capacity, resources and orientation of the local-level officials also did not match the
envisaged roles to be played by them during the post-project period.
• The auxiliary institutional arrangements made through forming new NGOs and strengthening the existing NGOs to
ensure the continuation of the sma process had failed in many instances.

<!-- page 99 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
99 a
• After completion of the project phase, the CCCs have to be fully dependent on external donor support for post-
project implementation, especially with respect to the implementation of large interventions.  t he spontaneous
switch between total financial dependent status to total independent status does not provide an interim period for
consolidation and evolution of institutional capacities and processes.
• The absence or lack of prospects of statutory authority, recognition as well as individual benefits for the community
created negative impacts on participation in the sma  implementation process.
• Lack of transparency in local organizations structure and operation has negatively influenced the decision-making
process and distributing/sharing benefits.
• Failed to appreciate the influence of community and intragroup heterogeneity on building participatory and consensus-
based resource governance.
• Past SMA planning experience reveals that in the process of negotiations with multiple stakeholder groups, a broad
range of differentiating factors influence on participation and consensus building in the planning and implementation
process.
 a lthough the national policy documents provide guidance for a locally driven collaborative management process 
in sma  planning, central agencies retain the decision-making functions within their own agencies and strong local 
organizations have not emerged due to a lack of institutional follow-up and effective social mobilization.     
5.2.2 Effectiveness and Impacts
• The past experience revealed that to ensure long-term sustainability and effectiveness, SMA should be a part of the
comprehensive national-level CRM planning and management effort.
• The overall status of the SMA process in the majority of the sites indicated approximately 50% of effectiveness
( e valuation of sma  p rogramme in s ri Lanka 2014).
• The status of conservation measures initiated by other agencies has improved as a result of the SMA process
( e valuation of sma  p rogramme in s ri Lanka 2014).
• The overall awareness of the importance of coastal resource management among stakeholders increased notably.
• The SMA planning and implementation process has created a sense of ownership among stakeholders and community
enthusiasm enhanced.
• Largely the livelihood development initiatives carried out under the SMA process to ensure the social and economic
well-being of the communities have created little impact due to the sustainability issues encountered.
• While ensuring sustainability, greater impacts have been created through the implementation of interventions that
create common/ individual benefits among stakeholders.
• In terms of objectives of the SMA plans vs. the actual achievements, it was revealed that the majority of the investigated
sma  sites accomplished noticeable ( e valuation of sma  p rogrammes in s ri Lanka 2014).
5.2.3 Sustainability and Challenges
 a s per the evaluation carried out on the selected sma  sites in 2014, sustainability was measured using the following 
criteria;
1.  f unctioning of CCC after the project period.

<!-- page 100 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
100a
 2. Continuation of institutional mechanism set up by the project.
 3. Continuation of financial support from other sources for SMA.
 4. Continuation of projects and programmes introduced by the sma  process.
 5. involvement of CC&Crmd after the project.
 • It was revealed that irrespective of the lead agency involved in SMA, all the CCCs set under the projects were not 
functioning after the project period.  
 • No financial support for the SMA process has been continued after the project period, except in a few instances.
 • The majority of the projects and programmes have not been continued after the project period except in a few 
instances.
apart from the above, the following inadequacies also contribute to the lack of sustainability of the sma  process in the past;
 • The lack of pertinence of technical solutions adopted in conservation measures created negative impacts.
 • The impacts of policies related to the other sectors have negatively impacted the SMA process creating threats to 
sustainability.
 • The CBOs and NGOs actively involved in the SMA process have limits that prevent the achievement of major 
objectives.
 • Accommodating new economic policies in SAM planning and implementation is a major challenge due to the 
inadequate application of environmental valuation.  
 • Setting up an institutional mechanism, in compliance with the existing legal provisions will be a great challenge for 
ensuring the sustainability of the sma  process.  
 5.3  ROOM FOR COLLABORATION: NEW LEGAL PROvISIONS FOR SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA 
(SMA)
  The SMA process has been recognized as a strong collaborative coastal resource management policy and is facilitated 
through strengthening policy and legal framework for wider participation and collaboration.  even though the policy 
and legal framework were strengthened in 2011, the status of implementation shows poor performance in the recent past 
due to the COVid pandemic prevailing in the country and the lack of commitment and involvement of non-government 
organizations and donor agencies. 
  When the required provisions have been introduced through part iii-C of the Coast Conservation amendment act,  
No. 49 of 2011, new opportunities are created for the continuation of special management area planning and 
implementation as a sustainable and effective supplementary planning tool for coastal resources management in Sri 
Lanka.  similarly, other interested parties such as NGOs and donor agencies also play a direct role in planning and 
implementation under the guidance of CC&Crmd. 
  as per the new provisions (section 22e (1)), special management areas could be declared covering land within the 
coastal zone or adjacent to the coastal zone or comprising both through Gazette notification.  The new legal provisions 
also recognized the adoption of a collaborative approach for planning resources management in the defined SMA’s.  
according to the new legal provisions, special management areas could be declared only if such areas are included 
in the Coast al Zone and Coastal resource management plan prepared under the provisions of the amendment act.

<!-- page 101 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
101a
  To formulate an effective institutional structure for planning and management of Special Management Areas, new 
regulations have to be prepared in compliance with the legal provisions provided through part iii-C, sub section 2 of 
22e of the amendment act, No.  49 of 2011.  t o achieve the desired objectives of sma  planning, regulations should be 
framed and brought before parliament as soon as convenient.  the new regulations have to be formulated prescribing 
the manner and mode in which and the persons by whom, such special management area should be administered, 
the persons entitled to have access to these areas, and the activities which can be carried out within such areas.   
(under the provision in section 22e (2)).
  Accordingly, the existing legal provisions have to be used with the effective participation of stakeholders comprised 
of the relevant community and those who are directly attached to the sma  site, local institutions both government and 
non-governmental, outside beneficiaries and the central government institutions.
 5.4 WHY SMA SHOuLD BE STRENGTHENED AND ADv OCATED
  The Special Management Area concept that is based on the co-management principles could be considered an effective 
and viable approach to integrated coastal resources management in sri Lanka.  in comparison to other approaches, it 
properly acknowledges the complex relationship between coastal and marine uses and the coastal ecosystems.  the sma  
process also promotes linkage and harmonization among varied types of coastal activities and the physical processes 
of nature.  The flexibility of the management system pays proper attention to both coastal resources systems as well as 
human systems.  The main influencing factors behind the requirement of SMA as a complementary tool for Integrated 
Coastal Resources Management are summarized below: 
  The SMA process is viewed as an effective means of promoting sustainable management of coastal resources within a 
defined geographic setting and makes it possible to deal more comprehensively and effectively with complex management 
issues.
 • The decentralization policies that have been pursued since the late 1980s positively contributed to adopting 
collaborative management.
 • Recognition of a need to formalize indigenous or traditional sustainable resources management practices within the 
legal and wider governance framework to minimize coastal resource depletion, overexploitation and user conflicts.
 • The characteristics of the public or state-owned nature of coastal resources and the prevailing status of open access 
to it present formidable challenges to managing coastal resources.  
 • Coastal habitats are being rapidly degraded due to both man-induced causes and natural phenomena.  Thus, a user-
centered management approach is vital.
 • To pay systematic and effective approach to counter the spreading of poverty and over-exploitation of marine and 
coastal resources.
 • To facilitate local-level management interventions and to maintain consistency and compliance with national-level 
coastal resource management policies and regulations.
 • Community demand for greater legitimacy and transparency in resource management decision making.
 • Counter increasing user conflicts parallel to new development activities taking place in the coastal region.
 • Requirement of empowering and building a sense of ownership among civil society, communities and community-
based organizations to enable to manage coastal resources in a sustainable manner.
 • To address gender issues related to coastal resource uses.

<!-- page 102 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
102a
 • To incorporate a sustainable livelihood perspective to address site-specific coastal environmental issues.
 • To build resilience and reduce vulnerability among coastal communities against natural coastal hazards.  
 • To enable positive community perception of decentralization policies being pursued in the recent past in administrative 
and political fields, and to provide an enabling environment for effective and sustainable coastal resources management 
through sma.
 5.5  REQuIREMENT OF MOv ING FROM A PROJECT-BASED APPROACH TO A MORE 
PROGRAMMATIC APPROACH
  the two and half decades of planning and implementation of the special management area process carried out 
by Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department and the other agencies in sri Lanka were 
entirely on a project-oriented basis.  as a result of this, the outcomes of the sma  planning and implementation 
process and its long-term sustainability of posed a problematic situation.  this situation was further complicated 
due to the absence of a proper legal and institutional framework.  thus, the long-term commitment of the main 
facilitating agencies came to a standstill when the projects were terminated.  Similarly, local-level organizations 
such as NGOs when involved in the process were also unable to continue the process due to financial constraints 
and lack of authority, capacity and legal and administrative recognition.  t he past implementation experience 
revealed that the post-project implementation including monitoring and scaling up of conservation and livelihood 
activities have come to a halt with the closure of the project.  therefore, based on the new legal provisions and the 
regulations to be framed on special management areas, the planning and implementation process has to be moved 
to a more programmatic approach based on collaborative resources management principles and guidelines.  in this 
respect, careful attention has to be placed on balancing conservation objectives with the development needs in the 
legally declared sma  sites.  in view of the above requirement, a program-based approach has to be adopted while 
recognizing to practically get the involvement of the communities at the sites.  In compliance with this, the following 
guidelines were incorporated into the CC&CRMP  envisaging effective outcomes:
 a)  establishment of a separate special management area Unit within the Coast Conservation and Coastal resource 
management department under the director /Coastal resource management.
 b) A separate financial vote to ensure adequate funding from the central government for the SMA planning and 
implementation.
 c) New regulations frame to ensure the legitimacy of community participation and provide decision-making 
authority to the community at the designated sites.
 d) The need to establish legal recognition for the SMA Committees and the grassroots process to be recognized 
in selecting representatives for the sma ’s.
 e) Operational rules or codes of conduct formulate under the new regulations for sma  Committees.
 f) arrangements to share experience on co-management with the regional countries with a view to enhance the 
planning and implementation of sma ’s.
 g) preparation of list of sma  sites based on the new criteria introduced and incorporated into CC&Crmp .  
  During the planned implementation period of the 2018 Plan, the above recommendations have not been materialized 
due to several reasons including COrONa  pandemic and longer period of lockdowns experienced and the 
macroeconomic issues confronted during later part of the plan implementation period. 
  although the above recommendations were not implemented, the validity and requirement of implementation during 
this plan implementation is still binding for effective outcomes. 
 5.6 IMPROvING EFFICACY FOR SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA (SMA)
  Even though, there were some drawbacks and deficiencies experienced in the planning, implementation and 
continuation of the sma  process, the two major rounds of the sma  planning and implementation process carried 
out by the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management Department has recognized its appropriateness 

<!-- page 103 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
103a
and effectiveness as an ICM tool.  Similarly, the required modifications to produce better outcomes through SMA 
plans were also identified by the CC&CRMD through lessons learnt.  Although this approach is clearly perceived 
as an effective one for managing coastal resources and their environment in complex settings, several constraints 
and drawbacks as indicated in the preceding sections have prevented the realization of maximum benefits from 
this management process.  in addition, the sustainability of the sma  approach posed a complex situation.  the 
two major rounds of SMA planning and implementation conducted in 12 sites under external financial support  
(Usaid and adb - GoN) in project-oriented nature and the other sma  interventions carried out under hiCZm and 
Gef-rUK provide valuable lessons to improve and strengthen future sma  planning and implementation process 
in other designated sites.  further, the in-depth reviews and evaluations conducted by a number of scholars on the 
concept of smap  as well as planning and implementation in the sri Lankan context were also useful in formulating 
new guidelines and procedures.  in addition, most importantly, the new legal provisions provided through Coast 
Conservation Amendment Act, No. 49 of 2011 have given ample opportunity to enhance the efficacy of SMA.
  In addition, the National Strategy and Action Plan prepared by the IUCN, Sri Lanka office for the National Steering 
Committee for mangroves for the future programme, sri Lanka in 2009 recommends that an eco-system based 
integrated Coastal management policy be adopted in order to overcome the threat that a habitat-based approach 
leads to driving the focus away from the eco-system unit in which such habitats are nested.  such a change will have 
to await acceptance of the recommendation at higher levels of policy approval and consequent re-orientation of the 
CC act.  this should be the focus of the CZm plan revision that will be done within the next few years as required 
by the CC act.
  Improving the efficacy of SMA planning requires addressing several key issues based on an understanding of the 
basic requirements for sma  planning:
 	Pre-Planning Phase
 1. Necessary action has to be taken to move from a project-based approach to a program-based approach for planning 
and implementation of the overall sma  programme of the country.
 2. as per the new legal provisions of the Coast Conservation amendment act, No. 49 of 2011, a list of appropriate 
candidate sites for sma  should be selected based on the new criteria and incorporated into this plan.
 3. a  preliminary situation analysis report should be prepared for each site to determine priority and to identify the legal 
boundaries of sma.  
 4. In compliance with the new legal provisions, new regulations for SMA should be prepared and finalized with wider 
stakeholder consultation and approval for gazetting should be obtained as soon as possible.
 5. Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department should take the lead facilitator role for the 
smas by formulating a separate unit  under a deputy director and creating a separate budget vote for sma.
 6. sma  guidebook has to be prepared based on the new legal provisions and regulations in considering the existing 
and future social environmental and economic trends in the coastal zone.  
  Planning Phase
 1. there is no blueprint for sma.  each site should be considered unique,  requiring the application of a specific 
integrated methodology; planning should be based on site-specific issues, the extent of the area to be covered, etc.
  
 2. Equal opportunities should be emphasized on the social and institutional profile when situation analysis is carried 
out.  

<!-- page 104 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
104a
 3. there is a greater possibility of success when the area is smaller.  thus legal boundaries of the sma  should be 
determined by the sma  Committee based on the information provided through preliminary situation analysis and 
with the consultation of the other relevant stakeholders prior to the declaration of the site as an sma  site through 
Gazetting.  However, the linkages between the SAM site and the ecosystem in which it is nested should be clearly 
identified.
 4.  the sma  committee should be established in accordance with the new regulations for sma  and grass root independent 
selection process should be adopted in selecting representatives for the sma  Committee to ensure the protection of 
local interest.
 5. formulate operational rules or code of conduct in line with the regulations to govern the sma  committee.  the 
operational rules should be placed specifically on tabling issues, decision-making, disbursement and management 
of funds, obtaining assistance from the provincial Councils and the Central Government agencies and international 
NGOs.
 6. all discussions, decision-making processes, sma  Committee meetings and information compendiums should be 
prepared in a suitable local language (sinhala/t amil) where possible.
 7.  all decisions made during planning and implementation should be clear and well documented; binding decisions must 
be clearly communicated to all involved in the process and abided by all to prevent mistrust, which will jeopardize 
the sma  process.
  Implementation Phase
 1. agencies and NGOs having an implementation and monitoring role in sma  plans should be obliged to include 
activities in fulfilment of that role, in their annual work programmes.
 2. Attempts should be made to strengthen local organizations, structure, and operating rules to enhance transparency 
in leadership, membership, and decision-making processes.
 3. full and active participation of representative stakeholder groups at all stages directly underpins the success of sam 
planning and implementation and is critical to counteract adverse influences.
 4. When institutional development commences at the local level during the planning phase, attention should be placed 
to establish /strengthen both vertical and horizontal linkages between newly formed/existing organizations and local 
/central government agencies.
 5. Instead of establishing local organizations /institutions across livelihoods and resource bases, community elements 
should be promoted.  
 6. Local communities should have opportunities to derive tangible benefits from the initial stages of the SMA process 
if they are to be motivated to manage natural resources.
 7. Communities should be supported at the initial stages of the SMA process with financial and technical assistance to 
strengthen their organizational capacity for plan implementation; they may also require long-term financial assistance 
for the socio-economic development of the area.
 8. Mechanisms should be built into SMA plans for promoting self-reliance in order to minimize the dependency on 
external support.
 9. Wherever possible sma  processes should be incorporated into the district and provincial development plans or 
regional projects of the government to be in harmony and in compliance with National and regional development 
plans.

<!-- page 105 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
105a
 10. all sma  plans should have a mechanism for participatory monitoring and feedback systems, based on indicators 
identified at the outset of project planning for continuous improvement of the implementation process and to make 
the results tangible.  
 5.7 MECHANISMS FOR SMA PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION
	 •	 Identification and Agreement on SMA Sites: The past experience through 1997 and 2004  and 2018  Revised 
CZMP’s
  After the formalization and acceptance of Special Management Area (SMA) as a supplementary ICM tool, 23 sites 
have been identified through CZMP of 1997 as potential SAM sites with specific complex issues to be resolved.  
After the identification of potential SMA sites, each site has been rated with respect to “four factors of concern” or 
the criteria for ranking and the sites with the highest cumulative values have been recommended as high-priority 
sites for implementation.  in view of the importance, additional criteria have been incorporated into the criteria used 
for ranking sma  sites as indicated below:
  the 1997 list of potential sma  sites is considered an incomplete one and it does not adequately represent the sites 
located in the north and the eastern coastal region of the country.  This was due to the difficult ground situation on 
account of the armed conflict which prevented access to these areas for public consultations and site identification.  
it was further compounded by the scarcity of information on possible sites within these regions.  
	 	SMA sites to be declared under the legal provisions of the Coast Conservation Amendment Act, No. 49 of 
2011
  The SMA sites identified through the 1997 Revised CZMP as well as the 2004 CZMP including level II sites have 
no legal recognition for implementation unless those sites are also considered and termed as sma  sites.  therefore, 
all potential sites including those in which the SMA process had already been initiated under different projects 
and the appropriate level ii sma  sites have to be included in this plan and termed and declared as sma  (special 
management areas) under the legal provisions of the part iii section 22e of the Coast Conservation and Coastal 
resource management act, No 57 of 1981  to establish legal recognition.  in this respect following procedures /
processes will be adopted by the Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department.
	 	Re-designation and revitalization of SMA sites already implemented through a project-based approach:
 Declaration of SMA Sites
  as indicated in the following Table 5.1, and t able 5.2 special management area (sma) sites in which the planning 
and implementation process initiated will be re-listed as special management areas and action will be initiated to 
declare them as SMA sites through a government gazette notification in compliance with the legal provisions of the 
Coast Conservation amendment act, No. 49 of 2011.  
Criteria used for ranking potential SMA sites for implementation
a) The severity of social, economic and environmental issues prevailing in the sites.
b) The relative richness and diversity of flora and fauna of coastal ecosystems
c) The feasibility of management based on size, location, legal and institutional factors.
d) The existing or potential value of economic development in the area.
e) Level of exposure/vulnerability to climate change impact.
f) Vulnerability to coastal disasters both episodic and chronic.
g) Significance of archaeological and historic values of the site
h) Presence of migratory species
i) National and global conservation status of species

<!-- page 106 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
106a
Establishment of legal boundaries
In this respect, the legal boundaries of the SMA sites should be re-demarcated emphasizing the following;
 • Status of conservation of coastal habitats.
 • The Degree of outcomes of the implementation of previous initiatives in accordance with the issues prevailed.
 • Social and economic profile of the site.
 • Balancing conservation objectives with economic needs.  
 • Exposure and vulnerability to climate change impacts.
Formation of Special Management Area Coordinating Committees (SMACC)
  in accordance with the new regulations to be framed under the provisions of the Coast Conservation and Coastal 
resource management act, No. 57 of 1981 as amended by the Coast Conservation (amendment )  act 49 of 2011, 
special management area Committees (smaCC) will be formulated replacing former CCCs.  the samC will 
be represented by central government and local government agencies, local level organizations and other relevant 
stakeholders.  The representatives from the local organization will be selected through grass root selection process as 
specified in the new regulations.  The SMAC will be co-chaired by the Divisional Secretary and the Director General 
/CC&CRMD, and an appointed Senior Officer from the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management 
department.  t he smaCC will operate in compliance with the code of conduct formulated as per the new regulations 
for sma.
Review and update existing SMA Plans
  the special management area Coordinating Committee will review and update the existing sma  plans consistent 
with the conservation objectives and development needs of the re-designated sma  site.  in this process, the situation 
analysis report should be prepared as appropriate in consultation and guidance of the smaCC.
Formulation of a sustainable financial mechanism
  To ensure the long-term sustainability of the SMA process, a sustainable financial mechanism shall be established 
by the smaCC in consultation with the other stakeholders.  in this respect contributions will be envisaged from 
central government agencies, local government agencies as well as respective provincial councils.
Monitoring and impact analysis
  t o assess and evaluate the results and impacts of the sma  process, monitoring mechanisms should be established 
by the smaC.  in this process, emphasis should be placed on monitoring, process, outputs and outcomes.  
Table 5- 1: Sites at which the SMA process was initiated through a project-based approach
District Project Site
Colombo Crmp  11 Lunawa Lagoon
Galle Crmp  11
Crmp  1/11
Crmp  11
madu Ganga estuary
hikkaduwa Nature reserve and environs
Unawatuna bay and Koggala estuary
Hambantota hiCZmp
hiCZmp/Crmp1
adb Crmp  11
Crmp  1/Usaid 
UNdp/Gef-rUK
hambantota sand dune stretch
mawella Lagoon and Kudawella blowhole
Kalametiya Lagoon
rekawa Lagoon
rekawa, Ussangoda, Kalametiya (rUK)

<!-- page 107 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
107a
District Project Site
Gampaha Crmp  11 Negombo estuary /muthurajawela marsh
Puttalam Crmp  11
bmZ, iUCN, faO-
UNdp
Kalpitiya bar reef
puttalam Lagoon
Batticaloa NeCdep_adb
Gef
batticaloa Lagoon
Wakarai Lagoon 
Ampara Gef panama sand dunes
Trincomalee Gef pigeon island
Table 5- 2: A list of sites to be declared as Special Management Areas under the legal provisions of the CC&CRM Act
District Site
Colombo •	 Lunawa Lagoon
•	 bolgoda Lake
•	 dehiwal-mt.Lavinia beach stretch
Kalutara •	 Kaluganga estuary
Galle •	 dodanduwa estuary rathgama  Lake
•	 madampe Lake
•	 madu Ganga estuary
•	 hikkaduwa Nature reserve and environs
•	 Unawatuna bay and Koggala estuary
matara •	 Weligama bay
•	 hirikatiya and surrounding beach area
•	 polhena beach
hambantota •	 rekawa Lagoon
•	 rekawa-Ussangoda-Kalametiya Cluster
•	 Kalametiya- Lunama Lagoon complex
•	 mawella Lagoon and Kudawella blowhole
ampara •	 arugam bay  and arugambay Lagoon 
•	 periya Kalapuwa(Lagoon)-Korai Kalapuwa( Lagoon)
•	 Komari lagoon
•	 panama  sand dune
batticaloa •	 batticaloa estuary  
•	 Kayankani reef and adjacent  terrestrial area
•	 Kalkudah – passikudah bays 
•	 thanadi bay, Valachchanai estuary
•	 punnaikudah, Kaluwankerni bays
•	 Uppar- panichankerni estuary 
•	 sallativu island and associated coastal area
t rincomalee •	 t rincomalee bay
•	 Nilaveli beach, pigeon island, periyakarachchi and sinnakarachchi estuary
•	 Kuchchveli-poduwakattau (including pirate Cove) coastal area
•	 Kokilai Lagoon

<!-- page 108 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
108a
mullaitivu •	 Nanthikadal Lagoon
•	 Nai aru estuary
Jaffna •	 manalkadu dunes
•	 Jaffna Estuary(Town area)
•	 Kankasanturai and Keeramalai coastal area
•	 mandativu, Valanai,Ninativu,  delft  islands
•	 thondaimanaru Lagoon
•	 Karainagar (including Casuarina beach) coastal area
•	 Navali coastal area
mannar •	 Gulf of mannar, south bar, Vankalai. coastal area
•	 t alaimannar coastal area
•	 Vidataltivu  coral reef and associated ecosystem 
•	 sillavathurai , arippu and aruvi aru coastal area and bay of Kondachchi 
puttalam •	 puttalam estuary
•	 dutch bay, Kala oya river mouth , Gangewadiya associated eco system
•	 Chilaw estuary
•	 mundal Lake and puttalam corridor channel
 5.8 GuIDELINES FOR THE SMA PROCESS
  In addition to the specific guidelines spelled out in the preceding section for the purpose of reformulating the 
ongoing or already initiated smas, the following general guidelines are given for planning and implementation 
of the sma  process in the new sites.  these guidelines have been developed based on the new legal provisions 
introduced for sma  through Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management act 57 of 1981 as amended 
by Coast Conservation act, No. 49 of 2011 and taking into consideration the lessons learned in the past.  however, 
they have to be adapted to meet the needs of the specific sites.
 1. Selection and declaration of a site 
  as per the new legal provisions, only sma  sites listed in the CZ&Crmp  of 2024 (t able 5.1 and 5.2) can be selected by 
CC&Crmd for declaration and G azetting as a Special Management Area, to adopt a collaborative resource management 
process.  In addition some sites could be merged and consider as mini-coastal landscape for effective management 
considering the totality of the ecosystem.
 2.  Establish legal boundaries
  in conformity with the legal provisions and the regulations made under such provisions, the legal boundaries of the sma  
site should be determined taking into consideration both land within the coastal zone and adjacent areas as required.  
 3. Establishment of a Special Management Area Committee (SMAC)
 4. Prioritization of identified issues and preparation of an environmental profile or situation /site reports
 5. Conduct stakeholder analysis
 6. Preparation of the draft SMA Plan
 7. Adoption of the Special Management Area Plan
 8. Implementation of Selected Activities Simultaneously with the Planning Process
 9. Establish Sustainable Financial Mechanism
 10. Monitoring and Evaluating of Plan Implementation

<!-- page 109 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
109a
 5.9 MANAGEMENT OBJECTIvES, POLICIES STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS
 
Objective 1
  sma  processes are oriented towards continuous enhancement of the value of natural assets of the ecosystems and 
improve livelihoods in the designated area through the application of appropriate management tools.
Policy 1.1
  the special management area (sma) process will be implemented at the district /divisional/local level including 
terrestrial and associated coastal waters with identified stakeholder collaboration.
Strategy 1.1.1  
  prepare comprehensive sma  plans in compliance with the legal provisions of the Coast Conservation and Coastal 
resource management act, No. 57 of 1981as amended by Coast Conservation (amendment) act, No. 49 of  2011 
and regulations framed under it for identified priority sites with the collaboration and effective participation of local 
communities, non-governmental and governmental agencies.
Proposed Actions
 1. select sites that should be managed as sma  sites.
 2. establish legal boundaries and declare such sites through Gazette notification as SMA sites
 3. establish institutional mechanisms as per the guidelines provided in the CZ&Crmp  2024 in the planning of the 
sma  process with local collaboration and facilitate the implementation at local/district/divisional levels.
 4. Establish sustainable financial mechanisms.
 5. develop participatory monitoring plans to assess the progress and impacts of the sma  process.
Strategy 1.1.2
  develop a mechanism to enhance local collaboration and participation in sma  planning, implementation and post-
implementation processes.
Proposed Actions
 1. Conduct stakeholder analysis in respective sites to identify and determine factors helping or hindering stakeholder 
collaboration and participation in the process.
 2. develop a communication plan to ensure better collaboration and participation of all stakeholders in the sma  
process.
 3. Establish both vertical and horizontal links between central government/local government agencies, SMACC and 
the stakeholder groups.
 4. Develop an incentive scheme to encourage local collaboration and participation by ensuring tangible benefits to 
communities.

<!-- page 110 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
110a
Policy 1.2
  Re-designate and revitalize SMA sites already implemented through project-based approaches in the past.
Strategy 1.2.1
  declare sma  sites already planned and implemented on a project-based approach as sma  sites through a Gazette 
notification to strengthen and rectify the weaknesses experienced during implementation.
Proposed Actions
 1.  establish smaCC as per the new regulations framed under the Coast Conservation amendment act, No. 49 of 2011.
 2. follow the guidelines given in section 5.2.
 3. Identify main constraints, analyze lessons learnt, carry out a situation analysis and find solutions to rectify the 
shortcomings experienced in the implementation of ongoing sma  plans and facilitate continuity of the process.
 4. Institutionalize a programme to monitor and evaluate SMA projects, and establish a feedback mechanism to assist 
enhance management efficiency.
Policy 1.3
  all smap  should be formulated and implemented in compliance with national-level legislations.
Strategy 1.3.1
  ensure maintaining consistency in planning and implementation of sma  plans /planning process with other relevant 
national-level legislation.
Proposed Actions
 1.  prepare a guidebook describing procedures, means, and ways to maintain consistency of sma  planning and 
implementation process with the national level legislation.
 2. Conduct awareness programmes on the sma  process among provincial, district and divisional level stakeholders.
Policy 1.4 
  the capacity of local authorities and concerned state agencies will be strengthened to enhance the implementation 
of sma  plans.
Strategy 1.4.1
  enhance the sam implementation capacity of Local authorities and concerned state agencies through training and 
awareness programmes and effective legislation.
Proposed Actions
 1. promote training and awareness programmes on sma  processes.
 2. further strengthening of the legal framework for sma  planning.
 3. promote collaborative management of coastal habitat conservation through smaCC.

<!-- page 111 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
111 a
 4. Include guidelines for and responsibilities of communities, government /semi-government organizations, District 
secretariats and smaCCs for implementation of the sam plans.
 5. Strengthen the capacity of local-level officials for SMA planning.
Policy 1.5
  The Special Management Area process will be harmonized with national and regional development efforts.
Strategy 1.5.1
  incorporate and integrate planning and management of sma  sites into development plans of regional/ integrated 
national development projects where appropriate.
Proposed Actions
 1. Coordinate with the ministry responsible for economic development to identify a mechanism to incorporate sma  
plans in regional projects/ integrated national projects.
 2. establish a mechanism to facilitate private sector participation in activities of sma  processes.
Policy 1.6
  SMA planning and implementation shall utilize comprehensive valuation and the incorporation of the hitherto 
unrecognized economic value of ecosystem services.   
Strategy 1.6.1
  recognition and due consideration will be placed on the real economic value of the ecosystem services when 
decisions are made with respect to environmental conservation, development and livelihood initiatives while balancing 
conservation objectives with development needs.
Proposed Actions
 1. Conduct environmental valuation with respect to services of the ecosystems to determine effective and fruitful 
decisions where possible.
 2. Carry out outreach programmes to highlight the importance and value of the hidden or unrecognized services of the 
coastal ecosystems.
 3. enhance the capacity of the collaborative institutions to conduct environmental valuations.
Policy 1.7
  The livelihoods of the communities in the SMA sites will be enhanced /up-scaled to ensure sustainable utilization 
of the coastal resources.
Strategy 1.7.1
  the issues related to livelihoods and coastal resources management will be comprehensively investigated and the 
required mechanism to improve the livelihoods in the communities in a sustainable manner will be incorporated 
into the sma  process.

<!-- page 112 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
112a
Proposed Actions
 1. Investigate issues related to the utilization of coastal resources and livelihoods of the communities at the SMA sites.
 2. Formulate and implement sustainable livelihood enhancement strategies based on past experiences to minimize 
issues identified.
 3. promote private sector participation in developing and scaling up of livelihoods in the sma  sites.
 4.  adopt appropriate monitoring mechanisms to evaluate, process, outputs and the outcomes of the livelihood 
development programmes implemented.
Policy 1.8
  planning and implementation of designated sma  sites will be promoted among local and international NGOs and 
donor agencies. 
Strategy 1.8.1
  facilitate involvement of international and local NGOs and donor agencies to enable to play major partner roles in 
planning and implementation of designated sma  sites
Proposed Actions: 
 1. framed new regulations to enable to play a major role in planning and implementation of designated sma  sites
 2. Coordinate with the ministry of environment, department of external resources and other related agencies to 
promote planning and implementation of designated SMA sites through programmes of international organizations 
such as UNdp-Gef small grant programme. 
 
Objective 2
  Sensitive coastal ecosystems will be sustainably  managed  by implementing SMA process at   identified priority 
sites. 
Policy 2.1 
  promote direct involvement and meaningful participation of NGOs and private sector entities to plan and implement 
SMA process in identified high priority sites.
Strategy 2.1.1 
  set legal and institutional platform for NGO and private sector for participation and direct involvement in sma  
planning and implementation
Proposed Action
 1. frame regulations to enable to take responsibility to plan and implement sma  sites under the purview and guidance 
of CC&Crmd.
 2. prepare operational guidelines with time line to enable to facilitate external stakeholder involvement in planning 
and implementation of sma
 3. Conduct awareness campaign to obtain support and stimulate interest among NGOs and private sector entities

<!-- page 113 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
113a
REFERENCES:
 1. Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department, (2014), evaluation of special management 
area (sma) in sri Lanka (unpublished).
 2. Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management department, (2004), revised Coastal Zone management 
plan.
 3.  Government of sri Lanka, (2012) Coast Conservation and Coastal resource management act, No. 57 of 1981.
 4. Government of sri Lanka, (2011) Coast Conservation (amendment) act, No. 49 of 2011.
 5. Clemett, alexandra; senaratne, sonali; and banda, r; (2004) Can Coastal Zone management in sri Lanka. sustain 
Local livelihoods and ecosystems? policy process analysis paper 2, improving policy Livelihood relationship in 
south asia, stockholm environmental institute (sei), y ork, UK.
 6.  de C, osse, p .J., and Jayawickrama, s.s. 1996. Co-management of resources in sri Lanka: status, issues and 
Opportunities. Usaid/sri Lanka Natural resources and environmental policy project, Colombo.
 7.  de silva, sanjiv; senaratne, sellamuttu, sonali;,Kodituwakku, dekshikaCharmini; atapattu, sitara s; (2011) 
Governance performance in integrated Coastal management in sri Lanka, Country report, Colombo iUCN sri 
Lanka.
 8. CCd. 1997. revised Coastal Zone management pan, sri Lanka, 1997. Colombo: Coast Conservation department. 
ministry of fisheries and aquatic resources development.
 9.  Jayatilake, a.,;pallewatta.,’ N.,; and Wickramanayake, J. 1998. the practice of community based conservation in sri 
Lanka. in Community and Conservation: Natural resource management in south and Central asia. ed. a. Kothari, 
N. pathak, r.b. anuradha, and b. t aneja, New delhi: sage publication.
 10. Landstorm ingegerd (2006), t owards Collaborative Coastal management in sri Lanka? a study of special area 
management in sri Lanka’s Coastal region.
 11. Lowry, K.,;pallewatte, N.,; and dainis.a.p . 1997. special area management projects at hikkaduwa and rekawa.a  
preliminary assessment. Crmp , Colombo.
 12.  Lowry, K., pallewatte, N., and dainis, a.p ., 1999. policy-relevant assessment of community-level coastal management 
projects in sri Lanka. Ocean and Coastal management 42 (8): 717 – 745.
 13. Wickramaratne, h.J.m. and a.t .White. 1992. Concept paper on special area management for sri Lankan Coasts. 
Work¬ing paper No.10, 1992. Crmp  Colombo.
 14. Senaratna, S. 2003. Factors influencing the sustainability of livelihoods in rural coastal communities in Sri Lanka. 
phd Upgrade report. imperial College London.
 15. hsamCC/CCd/Nara/department of Wildlife Conservation/dWLC/Crmp/, 1996. special area management 
plan for hikkaduwa marine sanctuary and environs. sri Lanka. hikkaduwa special area management and 
marine sanctuary Coordinating Committee, Coast Conservation department, National aquatic resources agency, 
department of Wildlife Conservation and Coastal resources management project.
 16. rsamCC/CCd/Nara/Crmp . 1996. special area management plan for rekawa Lagoon, sri Lanka. rekawa 
special area management Coordinating Committee/ Coast Conservation department/ National aquatic resources 
agency/ and Coastal resources management project.

<!-- page 114 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
114a
CHAPTER 6 - REGuLATORY MECHANISM
 
 6.1 INTRODuCTION
  the  regulatory framework of the Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management (CC&Crm) act, No.57 of 
1981 is being used as an effective management instrument by the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resources Management 
department (CC&Crmd) for managing activities and the resources within the Coastal Zone. t o address the major 
coastal issues and to ensure the sustainability of the management measures, adopting other auxiliary management 
instruments such as special management area (sma), inter-agency Coordination, Compliance monitoring, research 
and investigations, and public education and a wareness plays a vital role. this is complementary to the regulatory 
instruments in the coastal resources management strategy of the CC&Crmd in the recent past.
  The Regulatory Mechanism pertaining to the Coastal Zone constitutes the following:
 • Implementation of a permit procedure
 • Prohibition of activities for which permits are not issued
 • Designation of setback standards, variances, and exemptions
 • Compliance Monitoring for development activities
 • Control of development activities
 • Controlling unauthorized development activities
 • Provision of standards and guidelines for specified development activities
 • Requirement of Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Initial Environmental Examination (IEE)
 • Designation and control of Affected Areas
 • Declaration of Conservation Areas
 • Designation and management of Special Management Areas (SMAs)
 • Designation and management of tourism development areas
 6.1.1 Definition of the Coastal Zone
  The definition of the “Coastal Zone”, as defined in the CC&CRM Act, No. 57 of 1981 as amended by Act, No. 49 
of 2011 is as follows:
  “Coastal Zone” means an area lying within a limit of three hundred meters landwards of the mean high Water line 
and a limit of two kilometers seaward of the mean Low Water Line and in the case of rivers, streams, lagoons, or any 
other body of water connected to the sea either permanently or periodically, the landward boundary shall extend to 
a limit of two kilometers measured perpendicular to the straight baseline drawn between the natural entrance points 
thereof and shall include the waters of such rivers, streams, and lagoons or any other body of water so connected to 
the sea, and shall also include the area lying within a further extended limit of one hundred meters inland from the 
zero Mean Sea Level (MSL) along the periphery”;
(The locations of natural entrance points considered to establish the straight baseline are to be determined by the CC&CRMD.)

<!-- page 115 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
115a
Figure 6.1: Coastal Zone as defined in CC&CRM Act, No. 57 of 1981 as amended by Act, No. 49 of   2011
 6.2 PERMIT PROCEDuRE
  the principal regulatory tool used by the CC&Crmd in managing development activities of the “Coastal Zone” is the 
p ermit procedure. the main objective of this procedure is to direct development activities in the “Coastal Zone” in such 
a manner that negative impacts of development activities are averted or minimized. Through this procedure, activities 
that are harmful or not compatible to the coastal environment are controlled and the quality, stability, and productivity 
of the “Coastal Zone” are maintained. thus, it is made mandatory under the CC&Crm act for any person, whether 
in the private or the state sector or, intending to engage in a development activity within the “Coastal Zone” (except 
for the prescribed activities for which permits are not required) to obtain a permit issued by the director General (dG) 
of the CC&Crmd. activities that may be engaged in without a permit have been prescribed by Coast Conservation 
regulation No.1 of 1983 and published in Gazette No. 260/22 of 2nd september 1983. activities for which a permit 
is required are given in the section below:
 6.2.1 Development Activities within the “Coastal Zone” for which a Permit is required
  for many development activities within the “Coastal Zone,” a permit is required from the dG of CC&Crmd. some 
examples for such activities are as below:
 • Infrastructure for residential purposes and related structures, such as parapet walls
 • Industrial and other commercial structures
 • Infrastructure facilities for tourism and recreational purposes such as swimming pools
 • Commercial and fisheries harbour structures and navigational channels


<!-- page 116 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
116a
 • Roads, bridges, tunnels and railway lines
 • Infrastructure facilities for public and religious purposes
 • Shoreline protection works to be carried out by any private party other than the CC&CRMD
 • Infrastructure facilities for waste water treatment, conveyance and disposal, sea outfalls
 • Infrastructure facilities for desalination of sea water, sea water intake facilities, reject water disposal facilities (sea 
outfalls)
 • Aquaculture facilities and sea farming structures
 • Disposal of solid waste
 • Dredging, filling, grading or breaching sand bars
 • Landscaping and development of beach parks
 • Mining and mineral extraction
 • Power generation projects
 • Removal of sand, seaweeds or and seashells
 • Reclamation and creation of islands and additional buffers
 • Construction of conveyance lines
 • Construction, mining and breaching related to flood or hazard control by any private party other than the CC&CRMD.
 • Construction of structures to prevent bank erosion of any waterbody and filling of
 • any water area within the “Coastal Zone”
 • Any other activity likely to alter the physical nature of the “Coastal Zone”
 6.2.2. Prescribed Activities that may be engaged in without a Permit issued by the DG of CC&CRMD within the 
“Coastal Zone”
 • Fishing
 • Cultivation of crops that do not destabilize the coast
 • Planting of trees and other vegetation (except in the beach area)
 • Construction and maintenance of coast protection works by the CC&CRMD in compliance with the Coastal Erosion 
management strategy and the emergency procedures as outlined in Chapter 2 of this plan.
 6.2.3 Categorization of Permits
  altogether, three categories of permits have been introduced through Coastal Zone management plans (CZmps) 
of 1990, 1997, and 2004 respectively. accordingly, major 
  permits, minor permits, and emergency permits have been issued. as of 2024 CC&Crmp , permit categories are 
confined to two. Accordingly, all development permits issued by the DG of CC&CRM are under two categories viz. 
“t ype a” permit and “t ype b” permit.
t ype “a” permit t ype “b” permit
a  permit issued for a development or other 
activity which requires an iee or an eia  is 
referred to as a “t ype a” permit
a  permit issued for a development or other activity which did not 
require an iee or an eia  is referred as a “t ype b” permit
A Permit issued to minimize adverse impacts due to an emergency 
is also included under the category of “t ype b” permit.

<!-- page 117 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
117a
The purposes during emergency situations for which “Type B” permits are issued to minimize adverse impacts are as follows;
 • Flood or any other natural hazard control measures
 • Removal of sand bars to prevent floods
 • Construction of sea-water intrusion prevention structures on a temporary basis
 • Interventions at a time when threat/destruction is likely to be caused to life of people or public/private property, 
until such time a “t ype a” / or” t ype b” permit is obtained
 • National security 
the duration of the permits issued under emergency situations is determined by the dG of the CC&Crmd.
 6.2.4 Criteria to be assessed by the DG of CC&CRMD to issue Permits
  Whether the proposed activity;
 • Is consistent with the management policies spelt out in Chapter 2 – 5 of this Plan and any supplementary guidelines
 • Is not prohibited by this Plan
 • Is in compliance with the stipulated guidelines for variances and exceptions for setback standards where applicable
 • Meets the National Standards set by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) for air/water quality, noise, vibration
 • Will not infringe upon the right of public access to and along the beach and will ensure the right of vertical and 
lateral public access to and along the coast
 • Ensures that existing fishing activities are not obstructed or impeded
 • Is consistent with the intent of the zoning schemes of concerned agencies and/or guidelines recognized by CC&CRMD
 • Is not located within the Coastal Zone abutting Protected Areas as specified in Table 6.3
 • Is not located within a radius specified by the Department of Archaeology for designated archaeological, historic or 
cultural sites
 • Is not located in an Affected Area or Conservation Area declared under the CC&CRM Act
 • Is not located in an unauthorized filled area
 • Complies with the planning requirements with respect to reservations for roads, canals, rivers, streams lagoons or 
any other body of water connected to the sea either permanently or periodically
 • Will not denude beachfront vegetation cover
 • Shall have provisions for efficient and adequate means to dispose liquid and solid waste, if commercial structures, 
dwelling houses and industries in underserved areas are included in the activity
 • Is not carried out in a way that leads to disruption of the natural processes of the sand dunes
 6.2.5 Guidelines for issuing Permits for Removal of Sand 
  the following guidelines shall apply to permits issued for sand removal from the Coastal  Zone for 
non-commercial use. it should however be noted that, considering the dynamic nature of the Coastal 
Zone, site-specific guidelines will be issued from time to time during the plan implementation period.  
 •  Removal of sand shall be permitted only from the locations specified by the CC&CRMD. As determined by the 
department, the specified locations are subject to change from time to time. 
 • .  Removal of sand will not be permitted within the distance of 500 m from the mouth of rivers, streams, lagoons, or 
any other body of water connected to the sea either permanently or periodically
 • Sand removal within the “Restricted Development Zone” (i.e. the area within the distance of 500 m from the mouth 

<!-- page 118 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
118a
of rivers, streams, lagoons or any other body of water connected to the sea either permanently or periodically) will 
be permitted to facilitate navigational activities or to control floods
 • Permits will be issued/concurrence will be given to remove sand bars to prevent  adverse impacts of the floods under 
the direct purview of the District Secretaries of the respective areas, the Officials of the Irrigation Department and 
disaster management Centre.
 •  Removal of sand should not be carried out in a manner that causes damage to the existing vegetation cover adjacent 
to the sand removal site
 •  Removal of sand shall not have adverse impacts such as sea-water intrusion. 
unless under exceptional circumstances, permit will not be issued for:
 * mechanical extraction of sand within the Coastal Zone
 * removal of sand from the non-accreting beaches, barrier beaches, and sand spits 
 * Removal of sand from the newly accreted beaches identified by the CC&CRMD or artificially nourished beaches.
 * Removal of sand from specified locations where erosion has occurred within the past twenty-four months 
 * exploration or mining permits will not be issued within 2km seaward of the msL or less than 15m depth for the 
commercial purpose
 * removal of sand from locations where bank erosion is visible in the rivers and the streams lagoons or any other 
body of water connected to the sea either permanently or periodically and closer to the water intakes
 * mining of sand will not be permitted from the riparian land of the waterbodies lying within the Coastal Zone 
 * sand shall not be extracted within 200 to 500 meters from any crucial hydraulic structure such as pumping stations, 
water intakes, and bridges. the exact distance should be ascertained by the department of irrigation and CC&Crmd  
based on the local situation
In exceptional circumstances in which such a permit will be issued if the following are met;
 *  Comply with the ecological compensation process that require restoration and enhancement of environmental 
condition of the sand removal/mining area 
 * the beach and/or dune system are capable of supporting the proposed removal activity including impacts associated 
with mining and transportation’
 * potential noise to be generated must comply with the Cea  standards
 * Groundwater condition should not be altered and, contamination of surface and groundwater should be avoided.
 * existing wildlife habitat and turtle nesting areas should not be disturbed
 * the mining/removal as proposed would not weaken the overall dune system 
 * the removal is necessary to protect life or property in disaster situation
 6.2.6 Prohibited Activities within the Coastal Zone
  activities prohibited by the CC&Crmd, under the Coast Conservation and CC&Crm act, within the “Coastal 
Zone” are:
 • Removal of corals (note: in case of removal for research purposes and for the establishment of nurseries for replanting, 
a permit may be issued by the dG of CC&Crmd specifying type, quantity, location, and period for removal)
 • Removal of sand except in areas identified by the CC&CRMD as specified locations

<!-- page 119 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
119a
 • Any development activity that will significantly degrade the exceptional scenic and cultural value of the Coastal 
Zone
 • Developments within designated Protected Areas as declared by the Department of Wildlife Conservation and Forest 
department 
 • Development activities within a specified periphery from the boundary of the archaeological, cultural, and historic 
sites designated by the Department of Archaeologwithin the coastal zone
 • Development activities within designated “Affected Areas”, “Conservation Areas”, unauthorized filled areas, and 
sand dunes
 6.2.7 Prohibited Activities in the “Affected Areas”
  in accordance with the legal provisions of the CC&Crm act, No. 57 of 1981 as amended by the 
act, No. 49 of 2011, affected areas could be declared within or adjacent to the Coastal Zone or 
falling within both such areas or within any waterbody or part of any waterbody or within any 
lagoon or part of any lagoon or any peripheral area of a lagoon by Gazette Notification as required.  
  as per the above provisions, any development activity that could be carried out in terms of a permit obtained under 
Section 14 of the CC&CRM Act in an Affected Area is considered a prohibited activity. Further, filling, erection, 
obstruction, pollution or introduction of any waste matter or any activity which will harm the aquatic or marine life 
in Affected Areas is prohibited.
 6.2.8 Prohibited Activities in the “Conservation Areas”
  in accordance with the legal provisions of the CC&Crm act, No. 57 of 1981 as amended by the act, No. 49 of 
2011, any area in which special measures need to be taken for the protection of the coastal and aquatic ecosystem 
could be declared as a “Conservation area”
  as per the above provision, no development activity or collection and extraction of aquatic resources shall be carried 
out in the Conservation Areas, except for engagement in scientific study and research in such areas with a permit 
issued by the dG of the CC&Crmd.
 6.2.9 Setback Distances for Protected Areas
  The setback distances specified in Table 6.1 of this Plan are not applicable in respect of Protected Areas, which will 
be considered “No build Zones”.
  Protected Areas include Ramsar Wetland Sites, Buffer Zones, Sanctuaries, Reserved Forests, Conservation Forests, 
National heritage Wilderness areas, strict Nature reserves, National parks, Nature reserves, Jungle Corridors, 
refuges and marine reserves. a  300 m setback shall be applied to fisheries management areas, fisheries reserves, 
or any other designated area or site declared by the Government of sri Lanka.
  a  setback of 200 m shall be applied to all l archaeological sites within the Coastal Zone designated by the department 
of archaeology.
 6.3 SETBACK AREAS
 6.3.1 Revision of Setback Areas as per the Amended Legal Provisions
  With the amendments made to the CC&Crm act, No. 57 of 1981 through the amendment act, No. 49 of 2011, 
the definition of the “Coastal Zone” has been changed by the inclusion of 100 m riparian land of the waterbodies 
within the “Coastal Zone” defined prior to the amendment. Accordingly, to minimize the impact of development 
activities in the riparian land, the responsibility and the authority of managing such development activities are also 

<!-- page 120 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
120a
vested with the CC&Crmd through the new amendments. although both areas have strong and close connectivity 
with each other, the bio-physical characteristics as well as the level of vulnerability of both areas are varied. thus, 
when determining the criteria for delineating Setbacks or Buffer Areas, different criteria have been adopted.
 6.3.2  Desired Objectives of Setbacks
 • Protecting lives and properties from coastal hazards
 • Minimizing public investment in coast protection structures
 • Protecting and enhancing the scenic value of coastal environments, protecting vulnerable coastal ecosystems, and 
unique natural sites
 • Providing Buffer Zones for the protection of sites of archaeological, historical cultural and religious significance in 
the Coastal Zone
 • Minimizing user conflicts between different activities in the Coastal Zone
 • Ensuring public access to and along the coast
 • Maintaining consistency among national and regional laws and plans
 • Ensuring consistency between national development goals and environmental objectives
 6.4 DEFINITION OF COASTAL SETBACK AREA
  a  coastal setback area is a geographical strip or band within the Coastal Zone or within which certain development 
activities are prohibited or significantly restricted. It comprises a Reservation Area and a Restricted Area lying 
between the Seaward Reference Line and the Landward Reference Line of a Coastal Segment specified in this Plan. 
  The Seaward Reference Line and the Landward Reference Line are defined in Section 6.3.1.
 6.4.1 Coastal Setback Area for the Development Activities Landward of the Mean High Water Mark Seaward 
Reference Line and the Landward Reference Line
 a)  Seaward Reference Line : 
  t he CC&Crmd reserves the right to demarcate the setback from the permanent vegetation line on 
the beachfront where Coconut (Cocos nucifera), Wetakeiya (pandanuss sp mudilla (barringtonia 
speciosa) or other floral species identified by CC&Crmd  as permanent vegetation exist. h owever, 
in the absence of a permanent vegetation line on the beachfront, CC&Crmd has the right to 
demarcate the setback from a seaward reference line such as an appropriate contour line above 
MSL, the seaward edge of the top of a cliff/rock outcrop, existing coast protection structure or dyke.  
 b) Seaward Reference Line for the sand dune areas:
  if the proposed land is located in a coastal area comprised of sand dunes, the seaward 
reference point of the setback should be delineated from the landward toe of the back dune.  
 6.4.2 Reservation and Restricted Areas of Setback
  the entire coastal setback strip of the country is divided into 105 Coastal segments. for each Coastal segment, 
numbers are assigned from 1 to 92 (t able 6-1). each segment is further subdivided into two areas; reservation and 
restricted area (figure 6-2).

<!-- page 121 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
121a
  Figure 6- 1:  Locations of the Setback Area, Reservation Area, and Restricted Area within the Coastal Zone 
 i  reservation area is nearest to the shoreline and corresponds to a “No build Zone” in which only the uses/activities 
that are absolutely essential are allowed.
 ii. restricted area (or soft Zone) can be used for a few low impact activities.
  the width of the reservation and restricted areas varies according to the vulnerability, protection status, and 
exposure to extreme events and other geophysical characteristics of the particular coastal segment criteria used in 
the demarcation of setback areas
  The criteria used by the CC&CRMD in delineating setbacks for the development activities landward of the 
Seaward Reference Line are as follows:
 • Coastal erosion rates
 • Level of the erosion rates of the wedge of the water bodies of the “Coastal Zone”
 • Exposure to extreme natural hazards such as tidal waves, tsunami, cyclone, storm surge
 • Tidal variation, significant wave height and vulnerability to sea level rise
 • Geomorphological characteristics
 • Vulnerability of coastal habitats ecosystems
 • Protected areas
 • Extent of coast protection measures carried out
 • Significance of other natural characteristics such as scenic beauty, naturalist, recreational, and environmental service 
values
 • Significance of cultural and archaeological sites
 • Level of development
 • Level of user conflicts
 • Statutory limitations
 • Legal status of the site
 • National security considerations
 • Commercial harbours, fisheries harbours and anchorages
setback a rea

<!-- page 122 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
122a
 6.4.3 Permissible Developments/Activities in the Reservation Area 
  the dG of CC&Crmd may issue permits to persons engaged in the following developments/activities if it can be 
proven to the satisfaction of the DG that the development/activity concerned will not have any significant adverse 
impacts on the particular coastal segment or on the adjacent segments and shall not obstruct vertical and lateral 
access to and along the beach.
 • Coast protection structures which comply with the Coastal Erosion Management Strategy of the CC&CRMD
 • Harbour and fishery harbour facilities, jetties, piers, cable lines and slipways
 • Submerged sea water intakes, tube-wells and associated structures
 • Removal of navigational obstructions
 • Extraction of minerals of commercial value
 • Submerged communication, waste disposal, power generation, sand replenishment, gas and oil distribution and other 
public facilities in the near-shore
 • Submerged navigational facilities in the near-shore
 • Conservation activities approved by the CC&CRMD for enhancing aesthetic value and stabilization of the coastal 
areas 
 • Temporary structures for a period not exceeding six (6) months exclusively for fisheries activities at the Gazetted 
Madel Padu (Beach Seine Fishing) locations identified in the Gazette Notification No.337/48 of February 21, 1985, 
provided the following criteria are met:
 - roof material: Cadjan, illuk, canvas, cloth or tar sheets,
 - Wall material: Cadjan, planks, plant leaves, bamboo, canvas, plastic or paper 
 - floor material: sand, mud, clay (non-processed) or wood
 - foundation type: No permanent foundation (such as pile, concrete or brick foundations)  and;
 • Other environmentally friendly structures of width less than 30 % of the  width of the beach and length less than 
10 m (33 feet)facilities for madel padus (beach seine sites) planned and provided by the department of fisheries 
and Aquatic Resources (DFAR) (or by the state agency for  fisheries)
 • Reclamation to provide additional buffers
 • Waterfront developments  complying with the guidelines and criteria spelt out by the CC&CRMD in specified coastal 
segments
 • Life guard towers/structures, Observation towers/structures, Hazard shelters
 • Activities comply with the guidelines for the temporary occupation of reservation area
 6.4.4 Permissible Developments/Activities in the Restricted Area (Soft  Area)
  Whilst it is good management practice to leave the restricted area free from any development activity, this may not 
always be socially acceptable in view of the existing land use patterns, very high population densities, development 
pressure, and the small land parcel sizes within the Coastal Zone. Hence, a less stringent management strategy will 
be required. Constructions within the restricted area will be limited to dwellings and tourism-related activities, 
provided however that such dwellings or tourism-related developments/activities do not restrict vertical and lateral 
access to the beach.
 6.4.5 Setback Exemptions
  A setback exemption implies a significant deviation from the intent of the setback guidelines stipulated in this Plan. 
exemptions will only be granted if public interest warrants it. exemptions may be granted by the dG only if the 
Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management advisory Council (CC&CrmaC) determines that there 
are compelling reasons for allowing an exemption and recommends such exemption. exemptions are granted to 
engage in restricted activities within the setback area only if and when the applicant has demonstrated that such 
activities meet specific criteria. The following criteria need to be satisfied to consider granting exemptions.

<!-- page 123 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
123a
 • The proposed activity should serve a public purpose, which provides benefits to the public as a whole as opposed 
to individual or private interests, and must be one or more of the following:
 * associated with public infrastructure such as utility, energy, communications, and transportation facilities
 * Water dependent, generating substantial economic gain to the community or providing better public access to 
the beach
 * associated with national security
 * Related to environmental improvement interventions such as urban/city beautification and landscaping
 * Hazard mitigation measure that leads to protection of lives and property
 • There are no reasonable alternative locations for serving the compelling public purpose stated
 • All reasonable steps will be taken to minimize negative environmental impacts and/or user conflicts if an exemption 
is granted
 6.4.6 Setback v ariances
  a  setback variance implies a reduction of setback guidelines stipulated in this plan. Unlike in the case of a setback 
exemption, private interests may seek setback variations. setback variances may be granted by the dG only if the 
CC&CrmaC determines that there are compelling reasons for allowing a variance and recommends such a variance. 
setback variances may be granted only if the following criteria are met.
 • The proposed development activity is strictly limited to the Restricted Area (Soft Area) and/or the area landwards 
of the restricted area
 • The proposed alteration will not lead to any significant adverse environmental impacts or user conflicts. To establish 
the degree of environmental impacts, the CC&Crm aC shall consider the following:
 o existing coastal erosion rates in the area in which the proposed variance is requested
 o the degree to which the activity for which the variance is requested might reasonably be expected to accelerate 
erosion rates
 o the degree to which impacts associated with the activity for which the variance is requested will adversely affect 
coastal ecosystems in the vicinity
 o the degree to which geomorphological characteristics of the site, such as rocks, vegetation, or dunes, reduce or 
amplify potential adverse impacts
 o the elevation of the site for which the setback variance is requested based on the stability and landform of the 
particular site
 o the reciprocal effects of the proposed activity on existing coast protection structures
 o the type of precedent that is set by a decision, on the application for variance
 • Due to conditions at the site in question, the setback will cause the applicant an undue hardship
 • The variance requested by the applicant is the minimum necessary to relieve an undue hardship
 • The undue hardship is not the result of any prior action by the applicant
 • The allowable limit of variance to be granted shall be determined by the DG CC&CRMD based on scientific reasoning 
 6.4.7 Control of the Public Activities/usage of Foreshore
  Prohibited Activities within the Foreshore 
 • Construction of fences 
 • Planting of trees
 • Disposal of wastewater and solid waste
 • Construction activities using containers and non-operative fishing vessels or equipment
 i. Permissible uses for Public Purposes and Special Purposes related to National Development within the 
foreshore 

<!-- page 124 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
124a
 • Beach scene operations and construction of huts for such operations
 • Ocean Outfalls, seawater intakes
 • Structures related to ports and fisheries harbours
 • Lifesaving towers (Hazard warning towers, Life guard towers/structures, Observation towers/structures)
 • Underwater cables and communication lines
 • Activities associated with national security
 • Other activities/uses approved by the CC&CRMD under temporary permit procedure
Setback limits for the landward of the commercial ports, fisheries harbours and anchorages with protected structures
  setback standard is not applicable for the public or private coastal land plots located landward of the commercial 
ports, fisheries harbours and anchorages. The boundaries of such infrastructure will be determined by the CC&CRMD 
on case-by-case basis
 6.4.8 Guidelines for Issuing Permits for Refurbishments and Expansion of Existing Structures
  due to urban development and expansion, historic, cultural, and sentimental values, and the prevailing land scarcity 
and the higher land prices within the Coastal Zone, a tendency could be seen to expand and refurbish the existing 
buildings within the Coastal Zone. When the CC&Crmd issues development permits for such activities, contradiction 
or ambiguity on prevailing setback standards is inevitable. t o avoid such situations, the following guidelines shall 
apply to refurbish and expand existing buildings within the Coastal Zone
 • The ground floor footprint of an existing building should not be altered, if it is located within the reservation area 
and the present floor area of the ground floor of the existing building should not be increased 
 • No septic tanks, swimming pools, seawalls, or other structures are allowed seaward of the existing building to be 
refurbished
 • If the existing building or the structures possess historic, religious or archaeological value, prior approval of the 
Department of Archaeology is required for any modification 
 • Approval of the refurbishment plans of the existing buildings should comply with the waterfront development plans 
and the coast protection plans if any
 • In accordance with these guidelines, no permission will be granted for the buildings constructed after Oct 1st 1983 
when the CC act came into operation
 • Permission will be granted only for the buildings constructed before oct1st 1983 and confined to the old footprint 
of the building.
 6.4.9 Guidelines for Waterfront and Island Developments for Tourism and Recreational Activities 
  With recent developments in tourism and recreational activities, a demand exists for developments in islands  
(in the Coastal Zone) and waterfront developments to facilitate such activities. the current demand mainly focused 
on many small islands located in shallow waters off the Jaffna Peninsula and   Kalpitiya.
  the main environmental and socio-economic issues that could result from developments in islands and waterfront 
developments for tourism and recreational activities may be diverse and need to pay attention on the following bio-
physical characteristics and impacts:
 • Low level of environment threshold (ability to withstand stresses) due to the fragile nature of environmental resources 
in the area of developments
 • Limitation of the carrying capacities of the coastal ecosystems including the beaches

<!-- page 125 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
125a
 • Potential impacts of construction of structures such as jetties, berthing facilities, and other marine structures (which 
may cause obstructions to sand movement around the islands/waterfronts, alterations of current movement due to 
dredging, sedimentation on corals, sea grass, and other marine ecosystems, destruction of marine ecosystems due 
to dredging and other constructions in water bodies.
 • Construction of additional protective structures to minimize damages to the developments carried out.
 • Removal of vegetation causing changes in erosion and accretion patterns
 • Environmental pollution due to the accumulation of solid and liquid waste
 • User conflicts between traditional fishing activities and tourism and recreational activities
 • Inadequacy of historical data and information on coastal processes for assessing the dynamic behavior of the islands/
locations
  Considering the significant characteristics and potential impacts related to waterfront and islands development for 
tourism as highlighted above, the following guidelines shall apply for issuing permits for such developments.
 1. A permit may be issued based on the findings of an EIA or IEE procedures adopted in compliance with the existing 
legal provisions (CC&Crm act, National environment act and other related acts) on a case-by-case basis, by the 
dG of the CC&Crmd.
 2. Based on the findings of an EIA or IEE, an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) should be prepared and 
implemented by the respective developer to ensure sustainable management of the coastal environment.
 3. Waterfront development activities shall not be located in/or adjacent to the live coral reef areas and sea grass beds.
 4. Waterfront development activities shall not be allowed within a distance of 1.6 km from a National park declared 
by the department of Wildlife Conservation (dWC).
 5.  permission from the dWC should be obtained for siting of waterfront development activities in sanctuaries or marine 
protected areas on a case-by-case basis.
 6. Waterfront development will be restricted to 500 m of the water body and the riparian land from the riverine estuary, 
lagoon, or canal mouth.
 7. all waterfront developments to be located within rivers, streams, and other water bodies will be permitted subject 
to the approval of irrigation department.
 8. approval should be obtained from the Central environmental authority (Cea) for  all waterfront development 
activities to be located within designated “environmental protected areas” 
 9. an environmental protection License (epL) should be obtained from the (Cea) to discharge, emit, or deposit any 
waste or reject water from desalination from the waterfront development activities within the “Coastal Zone”
 10. The traditional fishing activities, fishing grounds and fish migratory routes shall not be disturbed by the proposed 
waterfront development activities.
 11. Waterfront development within small islands shall be permitted only if an adequate service area is available in the 
mainland (terrestrial area).
 12. No waterfront development activities shall be permitted in the areas subject to security restrictions or specific 
measures imposed for national security.

<!-- page 126 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
126a
 13. the necessary approval should be obtained as per the provisions of the state land ordinance.
 14. Any development activity shall not be permitted within the “Conservation Areas” or “Affected Areas” declared 
under the CC&Crm act, No. 57 of 1981.
 15. provisions should be provided to ensure public access within the islands.
 16. All precautionary measures/evacuation plans to minimize the impacts of natural hazards should be submitted by the 
developer to the CC&Crmd and approval for such measures/plans need to be obtained.
 6.4.10 Guidelines for Development of Floating Facilities for Tourism and Recreational Purposes   
  The development of floating facilities (such as floating restaurants, recreational floats, boat houses etc.) for tourism 
and recreational activities within the coastal zone of Sri Lanka are not very significant yet. But with the current 
development trends and the diversification needs that have emerged pertaining to the tourism industry, emphasis will 
be placed on development such facilities in the near future. although these facilities are important for tourism and 
recreation, they also can have negative impact on traditional socio-economic activities, shoreline ecology, aesthetic 
and navigational aspects. therefore, to ensure sustainable tourism and recreational activities within the Coastal Zone, 
the following guidelines will be applicable for construction and establishment of floating. facilities for tourism and 
recreational purposes.
 1. The floating facilities for tourism and recreational purposes within the Coastal zone will be allowed only in the 
specific locations identified by the CC&CRMD.
 2. the preliminary proposal should be submitted to the CC&Crmd prior to formulation of the detail proposal to avoid 
delays in the approval process.
 3. The proposals for floating facilities for tourism and recreational purposes are subjected to the EIA/IEE process on 
case-by-case basis based on the discretionary powers vested with dG CC&Crmd.
 4. floating facilities for tourism and recreational purposes are not permitted rest on the bed (substrate) of water bodies 
in the Coastal Zone
 5. No floating facilities for tourism and recreational, including recreational platforms for fishing and swimming, is are 
permitted where coral reefs and sea grass beds are located and adjacent to the turtle nesting areas.
 6. floating facilities for tourism and recreational purposes will not be permitted in areas declared as Conservation 
Areas, Affected Areas and areas identified for mineral extraction, including sand.
 7. floating facilities for tourism and recreational purposes will not be permitted in close proximity to the beach scene 
areas or other traditional fishing practices (such as stake net and still fishing) are carried out.
 8. Dumping of solid waste water from the floating facilities for tourism and recreational purposes in to the coastal 
waters or other water bodies in the coastal zone  will not be permitted
 9. moorage facilities should not interfere with legal public access to the shoreline or uses of the. Coastal Zone.
 10. Wood or any other material treated with toxic compounds should not be used for the construction and operation of 
floating facilities for tourism and recreational purposes..
 11. Spreading of artificial night lighting should be avoided as much as possible by focusing the lights, and using shades 
that minimize illumination of the surrounding environment of the floating facility.

<!-- page 127 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
127a
 12. All foam material, whether used for floatation or for any other purpose related to the structure floating facility must 
be encapsulated within a shell that prevents breakup or loss of the foam material into the water and is not readily 
subject to damage by ultraviolet radiation or abrasion.
 13. floating should be positioned at least 10 m of native aquatic vegetation.
 14. To ensure safety of the coastal water users and to curtail safety hazards, floating facilities should be adequately 
marked with reflectors.
 15. No floating facilities are permitted to be located in close proximity to the defence establishments.
 6.4.11  Guidelines for Siting Over Water Structures (Water bungalows) 
  When constructing water bungalows for tourism in environmentally sensitive areas like oceans, lagoons, estuaries, 
or rivers, it is essential to follow environmental guidelines to minimize the negative impact on the ecosystems and 
potential user conflicts arising out of it. The following general guidelines need to be adhered to such development 
as applicable:
 1. Conduct a thorough eia  or iee before starting the project to identify potential environmental impacts and propose 
mitigation measures.
 2. Choose a location that has minimal ecological value, avoids critical habitats (coral reefs, seagrass beds, etc.), and 
is less likely to affect marine life and traditional livelihood practices such as stake net and still fishing.
 3. Use sustainable building materials, energy-efficient designs, and low-impact construction techniques to minimize 
resource consumption and waste generation.
 4. Implement effective waste management practices to minimize plastic and other non-biodegradable waste. Use 
recycling and proper disposal methods.
 5. Use advanced wastewater treatment systems to ensure sewage discharge does not harm marine life and water quality 
and other water-based recreational activities.
 6. if located closer to coral reef areas, implement measures to protect them from construction activities and tourists, 
such as installing buoys to prevent anchoring and providing guided snorkeling/diving to minimize physical contact.
 7. Protect the local flora and fauna and establish rules to avoid feeding or disturbing wildlife.
 8. a void discharge of reject water from desalination process into the coastal or lagoon waters .
 9. Minimize noise and light pollution to avoid disturbing marine life and maintain the area’s tranquility.
 10.  if the proposed development intervention is to be located at an sma  site, involve the local community and support 
local initiatives for conservation and sustainable development.
 11. Raise awareness among guests about the fragile ecosystem and the importance of conservation efforts.
 12. establish a monitoring program to assess the environmental impact of the bungalows over time and make necessary 
adjustments.
 13.  the permit issued for construction of water bungalows and over water structures are subject to ecological compensation 
process.

<!-- page 128 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
128a
 6.4.12 Guidelines for Renewable Energy Development 
  the development of renewable energy in coastal areas, including wind, solar, and ocean thermal energy conversion, 
wave energy conversion, requires careful planning and consideration of environmental, social, and economic factors. 
the following guidelines will facilitate the sustainable development of renewable energy projects in the coastal 
zone:
 1.  Conduct an environmental impact assessment (eia) or iee (initial environmental examination) to identify potential 
social, environmental, and ecological impacts considering the following;
 • Sensitive coastal habitats and coastal ecosystems
 • Wildlife migration routes
 • Significant archaeological sites/resources
 • Traditional fishing practices
 • Sensitive security installations
 • water quality
 2.  the eia  should also consider cumulative impacts in conjunction with other existing or planned coastal developments
 3. The proposed project sites should not be located in, affected areas, and/or conservation areas as declared/specified.
 4. the coastal land grading should be carried out at a minimum level without altering the physical nature of the coastal 
land form
 5.  separate permission must be obtained for amalgamation of other development with the renewable energy development 
projects.
 6.  ensure stakeholder engagement through the involvement of local communities, and other stakeholders in the 
decision-making process. engage them early in the planning stages to gather local knowledge, address concerns, 
and consider their input on project design and location.
 7. design wind turbines and solar installations with aesthetics in mind to reduce visual impacts on coastal landscapes. 
Consider using offshore wind farms in suitable locations to minimize visibility from shore.
 8. Implement measures to mitigate noise pollution from wind turbines and minimize potential harm to birds and marine 
life. for example, use turbine designs that reduce noise and consider seasonal restrictions during sensitive wildlife 
migration periods.
 9. Implement ecosystem restoration and offset measures to compensate for any unavoidable environmental impacts. 
for example, support habitat restoration projects in nearby areas to enhance biodiversity and ecosystem health.
 10. For offshore projects, ensure that they adhere to safety standards and do not pose hazards to navigation or marine 
traffic. Properly mark and light structures to avoid collisions.
 11. establish a robust monitoring program to track the environmental and social impacts of the projects over time by 
relevant authorities. the collected monitoring data should be handed over to the CC&Crmd by the project proponent.
 12 develop a clear plan for the decommissioning and restoration of the site once the project reaches the end of its 
operational life. this plan should address how to remove infrastructure and restore the area to its original state or 
an agreed-upon alternative use.

<!-- page 129 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
129a
 6.4.13 Guidelines for Issuing conditional use permit (temporary permit) for the occupation of beach areas for tourism 
and recreational activities
  the purpose of considering issuing temporary use permits for the occupation of the beach area (reservation area of 
the titleholders and the selected beach stretches ) is twofold. Firstly, control of unauthorized development in tourism-
related significant coastal areas while ensuring sustainable financial mechanisms for coastal resource management 
in the wake of the financial crisis confronted by the country. Secondly, issuing temporary permits for the occupation 
of beach areas (reservations are of the titleholders and the selected beach stretches) for tourism and recreational 
activities can be a way to manage and regulate these activities while preserving the coastal environment. the details 
of issuing the conditional temporary permit is described below:
Application Process: 
  t o obtain a conditional use permit (temporary permit) interested parties, such as hoteliers, tour operators or event 
organizers, shall submit an application detailing their proposed activities, dates, and the area they wish to occupy.
Permit Duration :
  the duration of the temporary permit will be determined based on the nature of the activity and its potential impact 
on the beach area. This category of permits will be issued ranging from a few days for a specific event to several 
months for seasonal activities as specified below;
Designation of Specific Zones: 
  The CC&CRMD will identify specific zones or designated areas on the beach where certain temporary activities are 
allowed. the designated areas may change from time to time based on the dynamic nature of the particular beach 
stretch. This helps manage the impact of tourism and recreational activities on different parts of the beach.
 • Short duration events (Not more than seven days): Occupying a selected/designated public beach area for events 
such as musical shows, dramas, and practical training conducted by professional institutes.
 o The selected beach area from free of traditional fishing activities such as beach seine, still fishing, etc
 o the selected beach stretch should be free from turtle nesting areas
 o ensure adequate vehicle parking facilities without causing inconvenience to other neighboring activities 
 o Other approval should be obtained from the local authority, religious and other institutions located nearby 
as relevant 
  Capacity Limits:  a  limit on issuing the number of permits for any given time will be determined by the dG 
CC&Crmd to avoid overcrowding and protect the beach’s carrying capacity.
  Seasonal Restrictions: the seasonal restrictions on certain activities to protect sensitive beach habitats, nesting 
sites for wildlife, or areas with high erosion risk will be notified by the CC&CRMD.
Conditions for occupying Reservation Area 
 o permanent structures should not be cited within the reservation area
 o Only 75% of the reservation area could be used for temporary structures
 o The height limit of the temporary structures should be limited to the ground floor level 
 o The size and intensity of the contemplated temporary structure should be desirable and compatible with the other 
development
 o No temporary structures should be built on the existing coast protection structures (breakwaters, revetments, groins, 
seawalls, gabion walls, etc.)

<!-- page 130 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
130a
 o Construction and siting of septic tanks or wastewater storage tanks will not be permitted  
 o an adequate lateral access along the beach should be ensured by providing broad walk or other suitable means
 • Permit Period:  the temporary permit for the usage of the reservation area should be limited to six months and 
renewed based on the coastal environment and development screening process
 • Ecological Compensation: t emporary permit will subject to ecological compensation process to restore and enhance 
ecosystem damaged
 • Minimization of Risk: permit holder require to carry liability insurance to cover potential damages or accidents 
resulting from their activities.
 • Awareness Creation: permit holder needs to create awareness among tourists, visitors, and other beach uses about 
responsible beach use, shared responsibility for coastal environmental conservation, and adopting safety measures
 • Emergency Response Plans: require permit holders to have emergency response plans in place to address evacuation 
during unforeseen incidents or adverse weather conditions (Coastal erosion, overtopping, oil pollution)
 • Termination/ Right to remove at short notice: if the respective developers violate permit conditions or an emergency 
situation, the dG CC&Crmd has the right to terminate the permit and request the developer to remove temporary 
structures built on the reservation with immediate effect without any compensation.
 • Decommissioning:  a  reasonable refundable cash deposit determined by the dG CC&Crmd shall impose on 
issuing temporary conditional use permits to enable the reservation area to be placed into its original state 
  Compliance Monitoring: CC&Crmd will regularly monitor activities of the permit holders to ensure they comply 
with the terms and conditions of their permits, including environmental regulations and responsible tourism practices.
 6.4.14 Guidelines for Issuing temporary permits for establishment and operating surfing equipment outlets in the 
foreshore area 
  To consider issuing temporary permits for the establishment and operating surfing equipment outlets for recreational 
purposes on commercial basis requires a well-defined set of guidelines to ensure safety, environmental protection, and 
proper use of public spaces. Thus, the following general and specific guidelines will be followed to issue temporary 
permits;
General Guidelines
 1. The service provider/applicant must describe the nature and scale of the surfing equipment outlet to be established 
within the foreshore area and the intended use of recreational equipment including surfing, diving equipment.
 2. The permit period for the establishment and operating surfing equipment outlets is confined to six months as specified 
by the CC & Crmd for the south, south West, West, North, and east Coast depending on the tourist season.
 3. The temporary permit for the establishment and operating surfing equipment outlets will be issued only for the 
coastal segments/locations designated by the CC & Crmd. 
 4. an applicable permit fee should be paid by the applicant as determined by the CC & Crmd
 5. Renewal of a temporary permit issued for the establishment and operation of surfing equipment outlets on the 
foreshore area will mainly depend on the permit condition compliance and the stability of the coast.
 6. the CC&Crmd has the discretionary right to cancel the temporary permit with short notice in the event of coastal 
erosion or any other significant coastal hazard without any compensation. 
 7. CC & Crmd may impose restrictions in the event of the appearance and movement of sensitive coastal habitats 
such as turtles.

<!-- page 131 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
131a
Specific Guidelines 
 No permanent structures are allowed for surfing equipment outlets and allowed only  to use open and movable racks. 
 1. the public vertical and lateral access to and along the beach should not be disrupted  
 2. Surfing equipment must meet safety standards set by relevant authorities.  
 3. Equipment should be designed to minimize environmental impact. For instance, the use of non-toxic, biodegradable 
materials is encouraged.
 4. The maximum capacity of the beach area to accommodate surfing equipment outlet will be decided by the CC&CRMD 
on case-by-case basis considering the prevailing beach uses.
 5. Waste disposal plan must be submitted and approved, ensuring no pollution or harm to the beach or to the aquatic 
environment.  
 6. Permits may include restrictions on times or conditions of use to protect localized movement of habitats. 
 7. Operators may be required to hold certifications from recognized surfing or water sports organizations.  
 8. a  refundable cash deposit is required to ensure the dismantlement of the facility and cleaning of the beach area at 
its original state.  
 9. The temporary permit issued for establishment and operation of surfing equipment outlets  are subject to periodic 
inspections by the CC&Crmd  to ensure compliance with permit conditions.
 6.4.15 Setbacks for Artificial Islands, Reclaimed Coastal Lands
  In view of the requirement of EIA or IEE for such development, appropriate setback or the buffer area will be 
determined on a case-by-case basis.
  Considering the location, vulnerability, type of development, design features and other relevant information, setbacks 
for artificial islands and reclaimed coastal lands are to be determined by the CC&CRMD.
 6.5. SETBACK AREA FOR THE DEvELOPMENT ACTIvITIES IN THE RIPARIAN LAND OF THE WATER 
BODIES IN THE COASTAL ZONE
  In the case of riparian land of the water bodies in the Coastal Zone, a setback area can be defined as an area in which 
certain activities are prohibited or restricted. the setback area for the riparian land of water bodies in the Coastal Zone 
is delineated landwards from an appropriate reference line such as the full supply Level (fsL), mean high t ide Level, 
or edge of the bank of the water body or any other line determined based on the site conditions.
  an adequate setback should be delineated for the development activities within the riparian land of the bodies in the 
Coastal Zone. t raditionally, demarcating reservations for water bodies has been practiced by the irrigation department 
for development activities located in the riparian land of the water bodies. in considering the bio-physical characteristics 
of the water bodies, setback areas are defined under the following three major categories
 • Lagoons and riverine estuaries 
 • Major rivers 
 • Other water bodies connected to the sea

<!-- page 132 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
132a
 6.5.1 Guidelines for Riparian Buffer Zone Setback limits in the riparian areas of water bodies in the Coastal Zone 
consistent with the Department of Irrigation guidelines 
  Setback limits in riparian areas of water bodies in the coastal zone are typically governed by a combination of 
guidelines issued by the department of irrigation and the CC&Crmd. these guidelines aim to protect the bio-physical 
structure of the waterbodies, water quality, aquatic ecosystems, and the overall health of coastal environments. the 
specific setback limits can vary depending on the location, and size of the water body.
  these guidelines spelled out in this plan are only applicable to the area of the waterbody lying within the “coastal 
zone” as defined in the Coast Conservation and Coastal Resource Management Amendment Act, No. 57 of 1981.
 1. The delineation of the Riparian Buffer Zones should be measured from the edge of the water body.
 2. The Riparian Buffer Zone is applicable for both sides of a river, lagoon, or other water body that lies within the 
coastal zone.
 3. A minimum of 10m riparian buffer zone should be delineated for development activities other than bank protection 
from the edge of the water body. 
 4. The natural vegetation within the riparian buffer zone should be protected to enable it to filter pollutants, stabilize 
the banks of the waterbodies, and provide a habitat for wildlife. 
 5. A larger riparian buffer zone may be stipulated for the water bodies that are subjected to floods or located in flood-
prone regions. 
 6. the approval of the CC&Crmd should be obtained for the construction or application of any bank protection 
measures other than vegetative stabilization.
 7. Developers encourage to use of native vegetation and appropriate landscaping practices within the riparian buffer 
zone to enhance water quality and habitat value.
 8. public access and traditional pathways (lateral or vertical) leading to recreational areas and bathing places along the 
banks of the water bodies should not be impeded.
 9. reclamation will be allowed only beyond 10 m from the lagoon edge towards water area
 6.5.2  “No Development Zone” and “Restricted Development Zone”:
  in view of the high level of vulnerability and bio-physical characteristics of the estuarine water areas, riparian land 
located in close proximity to the mouths of the rivers, lagoons and the other water bodies in the Coastal Zone are 
designated as either “No development Zone” or “restricted development Zone” as follows;
 • The water area  within 500 m from the mouth towards extending upstream of the lagoons and major rivers are 
designated as “restricted development Zones” (rdZ).
 • All rivers, lagoons and other water bodies located in the Coastal Zone of the Protected Areas are designated as “No 
development Zones” (NdZ).
 • A 500 m linear segment of riparian land extending towards the interior from   the mouth of major rivers  are specified 
as “restrict ed/No development Zone”. 

<!-- page 133 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
133a
 6.5.3 Setback for Riparian Land of the Major Rivers, Canals and Streams
  a  setback or structure free reservation will be applied for development activities in the riparian land of rivers 
located within the Coastal Zone in conformity with the Government Land regulation (1) No.9912 of 1948.10.15 
and guidelines/standards practiced/stipulated by the irrigation department. the riverside, canal side or streamside 
reference line is from the edge of the riverbank or full flood Level(ffL).  the river categories are as follows;
 River Category Width
 major river  more than 15 meters
 Medium size river  5m-15m
 small river and other canals   Width less than 5m
  reservations used by irrigation department will be  applied for development activities in the riparian land of rivers 
and canals. 
  Legal definitions of reservations are covered by Section 49,50,55,101of the State Lands Ordinance No 8 of 1947 and 
Orders No.11,22 published with relevant to above sections under the Gazette notification No. 9912 of 15
th  October 
1948. this has further described at sections 227 to 230 of Land manual on state Land. in addition to that, fauna and 
f lora p rotection Ordinance No. 02 of 1937 on animal and tree conservation, Ordinance No. 24 of 1940 on a rcheology 
sites and monuments conservation, thoroughfare Ordinance No. 10 of 1861 on roads and pathways, Law No. 41 
of 1978 on Urban development authority, act, No. 12 of 1962 on Cemetery and burial Ground, sri Lanka Land 
reclamation and development Corporation act, No. 15 of 1968 as amended by sri Lanka Land reclamation and 
development Corporation ( amendment) act, No. 52 of 1982 and LawNo.27 of 1976 also indicate reservations 
relevant to activities under above Laws.
  however, if there is no reservation stipulated for riparian land of rivers and canals by the irrigation department or 
any other law, CC&Crmd will decide the reservation for the riparian land of rivers and canals within the Coastal 
Zone.
 6.5.4 Setback for Riparian Land of the Lagoons
  a  minimum of 10 m meter setback is required for the development activities in the riparian land of the lagoons within 
the Coastal Zone. however, in view of the complex nature and bio-physical variations of the riparian land lying 
within the Coastal Zone of the lagoons, a setback exceeding 10 m could be delineated by the dG of the CC&Crmd 
as appropriate.
 6.5.5 Reference Lines with respect to the Riparian Land of the Water Bodies in the Coastal Zone
  Lagoon side Reference Point Line : full flood Level (ffL) or the mean high t ide Line of the lagoon waters.
  Riverside Reference Point Line: edge of the riverbank, edge of the bank protection structure, or the full flood 
Level (ffL) of the river
  Reference line for Canals and other Waterways: edge of the canal or stream bank or edge of the bank protection 
structure
 6.5.6 Guidelines for issuing permits for Reclamation within the Riparian Land of the Water Bodies in the Coastal 
Zone
 • No reclamation activities will be permitted in the Coastal Zone except for the conservation and stabilization of 
riverbanks, edges of the lagoo ns, and other water bodies.

<!-- page 134 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
134a
 • Reclamation of riparian land of the water bodies in the Coastal Zone will be permitted for national security and 
urban beautification programmes on a case-by-case basis
 • No solid waste or e-waste dumping sites will be located in the riparian land of the water bodies (Reclamation by 
dumping solid waste is not permitted within the riparian land of the water bodies in the Coastal Zone. 
 • Reclamation of riparian land of the water bodies using solid waste or e-waste in the Coastal Zone will not be 
permitted in the area within 20 m of the bank of such water bodies.
 6.6 ENvIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (EIA) AND INITIAL ENvIRONMENTAL EXAMINATION 
(IEE)
  the legal provisions made for the requirement of environmental impact assessment (eia) stated under the section 
16 of the CC&Crm act, No. 57 of 1981 has been as amended by the Coast Conservation (amendment) act, No. 49 
of 2011 are as follows:
  “Upon receipt of an application for a permit to engage in a development activity within the Coastal Zone as required 
by subsection (3) of section 14, the Director General may require the applicant to furnish an Initial Environmental 
Examination (IEE) report or an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report relating to the development activity as 
the case may be or both such reports. It shall be the duty of the applicant to comply with such requirement”.
  in compliance with the above legal provision, when an application is received for a permit to engage in a development 
activity within the Coastal Zone, the dG of CC&Crmd will determine whether such activity requires an eia  or iee. 
although the dG has discretionary powers in determining the requirements of an eia  or iee, the CC&Crmd will 
consult the Cea  and other relevant state agencies where necessary and due consideration will be given to the list of 
prescribed projects under the National environmental act (Nea). it shall be the duty of the applicant to comply with 
the relevant requirements.
 6.6.1 Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA)
  Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) has been is defined in the CC&CRM Act, as follows:
  “A  written analysis of the predicted environmental consequences of a proposed development activity, and unavoidable 
adverse environmental effects of the proposed development activity, a description of alternatives to the activity which 
might be less harmful to the environment of the Coastal Zone, together with reasons why such alternatives were 
rejected, and a description of any irreversible or irretrievable commitments of resources required by the proposed 
development activity.”
  An EIA report will be required in case of a project that is considered by the DG to have significant impacts on the 
coastal environment or determined based on the adequacy of iee report. the t erms of reference (t Or) for the 
eia  will be prepared by the CC&Crmd in consultation with the related agencies on the basis of a consolidated 
review process and will be provided to the proponent of the project. it is the responsibility of the applicant to prepare 
the eia  report in conformity with the given t Or and the general guidelines for the preparation of an eia  that are 
given above. the developers (i.e. the project proponents) are advised to consult with CC&Crmd during the design 
stage and preparation stage of the eia  report. this will enable the CC&Crmd to assist the developer to prepare a 
concise, cost-effective EIA report that focuses on the most relevant issues.
  On receipt of an eia  report from the developer, the director dG shall submit a copy of the eia  report to the 
CC&C rmaC for comments. t he dG shall also publish a notice in the Gazette and in one newspaper each in sinhala, 
t amil and english, indicating the place and time the eia  report can be inspected by the public and invite the public 
to submit their comments within 30 days. the CC&CrmaC will submit its comments to the dG within 60 days. 
the dG shall consider all comments received and within 60 days of receipt of comments make a decision whether 
a permit can be issued and the conditions thereof (figure 6.3).

<!-- page 135 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
135a
 6.6.2 Initial Environmental Examination (IEE)
  in issuing a permit, the director dG is required to ensure that the development activity will not have an adverse 
effect on the environmental quality of the Coastal Zone and sustainability of the coastal resources. To ensure this, 
the dG may request the developer to submit an initial environmental examination (iee) report in accordance with 
the legal provisions of the section 16 (1) of the CC&Crm act amended by Coast Conservation act, No. 49 of 2011. 
The IEE report is defined in the Amendment Act as follows:
  “Initial Environmental Examination Report means a written report wherein possible impacts of the development 
activity on the environment shall be assessed with a view to determining whether such impacts are significant, and 
therefore requires the preparation of an Environmental Impact Assessment report and such report shall contain all 
details and, descriptions, data, maps, designs and other information which is relevant to the development activity”.
  apart from the prescribed development activities for which an iee report would not be necessary, such a report will 
be required in the case of development activities that is are considered to have significant impacts on the coastal 
environment and the resources as described in “Guidance for implementing the environmental impact assessment 
process”. it is the responsibility of the applicant to prepare the iee report. the general guidelines for the preparation 
of an iee report are given below. a  checklist and t Or for an iee will be prepared by CC&Crmd in consultation 
with the relevant agencies and will be provided to the applicant.
  On receipt of an IEE report, the CC&CRMD will review the report and if the report is sufficient to make a decision 
to issue or not issue the permit, a copy of such report may be submitted to the CC&CrmaC for its comments. the 
CC&CRMAC shall furnish its comments to the DG within thirty days. If the IEE report is insufficient to make a 
decision, the dG shall request an eia  from the project proponent.

<!-- page 136 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
136a
Figure 6- 2: Procedure for Reviewing and Issuing Development Permits
   


<!-- page 137 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
137a
 6.6.3 General Guidelines for Preparation of Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) and Environmental Impact 
Assessment (EIA) Reports
  the main details, typically to be included in an iee or eia  report, are as below. more details, including site/project 
specific and other, are included in the TOR issued for the IEE or the EIA.
 (a) Description of Proposed Activity
 (i) description of the nature, aims and scope of proposed activity
 (ii) description details of the activity during construction and operational phases
 (iii) description of the methodology to be adopted during construction and operational phases 
 (iv) Description of socio-economic and ecological benefits/costs of the proposed activity and,
 (v) description of the long-term monitoring program for the proposed activity
 (b) Description of approvals and (other) permits required to implement the proposed activity Site Description
 (i) a  description of the area within which the activity, development or operation is proposed to be sited and its 
environs which should include:
 • Location of proposed activity marked on a 1 inch to 1 mile map or 1:50,000 metric sheet published by the 
survey department of sri Lanka
 • A copy of map produced through Google Earth to show details of the site
 • A site map at a scale suitable to show the proposed activity,
  Delineation of coastal habitats as defined in Chapter 3 of this Plan and their ecological state
 • Proximity to water bodies
 • Existing land use and other human activities
 • Any high priority archaeological historic and cultural sites within the Coastal Zone as listed in Table 6.4 in 
this plan and any high priority recreational sites
 • Other relevant information
 (c) Description of Potential Impacts
 (i)  t he description of potential impacts should include the foreseeable direct and indirect, long-term and  
short-term effects of the activity on the Coastal Zone and its resources. In this context short term and long term do 
not necessarily refer to any fixed time periods, but should be viewed in terms of the environmentally significant 
consequences of the proposed action. any irreversible or irretrievable commitments of resources should be 
identified. The description should include the potential impacts on the following:
 • Coastal habitats described in Chapter 3 of this Plan
 • Quality and quantity of coastal waters
 • Past and present land use patterns
 • The abundance and diversity of plant and animal life
 • Erosion and depositional processes along the shore
 • Water circulation, flushing, turbidity and sedimentation
 • Freshwater runoff patterns and/or saltwater intrusion
 • Areas of archaeological, historic, cultural, and scenic significance and,
 • Public access to and along the shore and to coastal waters
 • Consequences on national security aspects

<!-- page 138 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
138a
 (d) Proposed Impact Mitigation Measures
  A detailed statement setting out proposed measures to minimise impacts and a statement on the effectiveness of the 
proposed measure should be provided. if alternative measures are considered, those should be stated and reasons 
for selection of the proposed mitigation measures be given.
 (e) Additional Requirements
  the dG/scoping Committee may, on a case-by-case basis, specify other particulars to be included in the iee 
or EIA report. The procedures for obtaining a CC&CRMD permit are summarized in Figure 6.3. In the case of 
development activities that do not require an eia, a decision on the application will usually be made within three 
weeks of receiving all the required information. Consultation with the CC&Crmd and reading referring this plan 
and appropriate references early in the project planning stage are advised to facilitate the permit granting process.
 (f) Monitoring
  as per the amendments made to the principle act principal act on-Coast Conservation, the geographic extent of the 
Coastal Zone has been extended by the inclusion of a part of the riparian land of the water bodies within the Coastal 
Zone. thus, the controlling of development activities also has increased accordingly. in this context, monitoring 
of compliance is critical requirement for the management of the Coastal Zone and its resources. in view the above 
requirement, improved guidelines have been provided in the CC&Crmp  2024 in order to facilitate compliance 
monitoring. the main objectives of compliance monitoring carried out by the CC&Crmd are to:
 • Determine whether approved permits meet the standards and guidelines stipulated in the CC&CRMP
 • Determine the adequacy of CC&CRM guidelines and standards in achieving CC&CRMP objectives 
 • Detect potential or existing inconsistencies between permit decisions and the    objectives of the CC&CRMP
 • Evaluate the performance of the regional and local level officials of the CCCRMD and the adequacy of resources 
at the local level 
 • Determine the effectiveness, adequacy and support of the other agencies in CZM CC&CRM policy implementation.
  The CC&CRMD will apply one or more of the following monitoring tools to ensure compliance with permit 
conditions:
 • Periodic inspection by CCC&CRMD officials during key stages of the implementation of the activity using a 
standard checklist
 • An information network based on formal and informal complaints for detecting violations in order to initiate 
enforcement action against violators
 • Conduct of permit monitoring compliance surveys on an annual basis including conditions imposed through EIA 
and iee procedures
 • Cumulative impact assessment monitoring emphasizing the collective and incremental impacts of numerous 
individual permit decisions spread over time and space in each coastal segment
 • Verification of required developer reports, surveys, tests stipulated by CEA or any other agencies, relevant to the 
development activity
 • Verification of Certificates of Conformity required obtained from local authority or other designated agency that 
the permit conditions have been adhered to.

<!-- page 139 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
139a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
1
Vellai, palliyamulla, baththalangunduwa and Other
 islands
(islands around Kalpitiya peninsula)
puttalam
8°32'26.82"N 79°46'56.70"e
medium (-)
20 30 50
8°24'19.50"N 79°48'44.76"e
2
Uchchamunai to
puttalam
8°23'01.20"N 79°47'14.90"e
    medium 
(+)  25 35
 
60mohoththuwaram (mohoththuwaram split Northern
boundary)
8°15'00.60"N 79°44'20.20"e
3
mohoththuwaram (mohoththuwaram split Northern
boundary) to puttalam
8°15'00.60"N 79°44'20.20"e
No build Zone No build
Zonemohoththuwaram /Kudawa split southern boundary
(Conservation /No build Zone)
8°13'41.50"N 79°43'52.10"e
4
mohoththuwaram/Kudawa split southern boundary
( Kudawa start point) to puttalam
8°13'41.50"N 79°43'52.10"e   
      medium 
(+) 25 35 60Udappuwa mouth 7°44'55.98"N 79°47'21.50"e
5 Udappuwa mouth to
puttalam
7°44'55.98"N 79°47'21.50"e
medium 20 35 55daduru Oya mouth Northern boundary  7°37'6.70"N 79°47'56.50"e
6
daduru Oya mouth Northern boundary  to
puttalam
7°37'06.70"N 79°47'56.50"e
No build Zone No build
Zone
Chilaw Cemetery end point   (Conservation Zone/ No
build Zone)
7°35'48.90" N 79°47'11.60"e
7 Chilaw Cemetery end point to
puttalam
7° 35'48.90" N 79°47'11.60"e
  Low (+) 15 30 45Nainamadama Wellamankaraya Gin Oya river mouth 7°18' 08.39"N 79°50'16.14"e
8 Nainamadama Wellamankaraya Gin Oya river mouth to puttalam
/Gampaha
7°18' 08.39"N 79°50'16.14"e
Low (-) 10 25 35duwa pitipana weediya mora Wala 7°12'13.00"N 79°49'02.50"e
Table 6- 1 Setbacks for Development Activities in the Coastal Zone – 2024

<!-- page 140 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
140a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
9
duwa pitipanaweediya mora Wala to Gampaha/
Colombo
7°12'13.00"N 79°49'02.50"e
   Low (+) 15 30 45Kelani river mouth 6°58'43.55"N 79°52'10.09"e
10 Kelani river mouth to
Colombo
6°58'43.55"N 79°52'10.09"e
Low (+)
15 30 45
Colombo port 6°56'19.34"N 79°50'42.78"e
11
Colombo port to
Colombo
6°56'19.34"N 79°50'42.78"e
special
segment i
port City regulations will 
applybeira Lake mouth
(port City development segment)
6°55'45.81"N 79°50'33.75"e
12
beira Lake mouth to
Colombo
6°55'45.81"N 79°50'33.75"e
  Low (-) 10 25 35mount Lavinia hotel 6°50'02.91"N 79°51'44.83"e
13
mount Lavinia hotel to
Colombo/ 
Kalutara
6°50'02.91"N 79°51'44.83"e
    Low (-) 10 25 35pinwatta thalpitiya Outlet 6°40'56.76"N 79°55'02.46"e
14 pinwatta thalpitiya Outlet to
Kalutara
6°40'56.76"N 79°55'02.46"e
     Low 15 25 40Kalutara estuary Northern bank 6°35'16.09"N 79°57'19.92"e
15
Kalutara estuary Northern bank to
Kalutara
6°35'16.09"N 79°57'19.92"e
No build Zone No build
Zone
a vani hotel Katukurunda (southward boundary of 
Kalutara
estuary) (proposed to Kalido strip as a Conservation 
Zone)
6°34'14.95"N 79°57'34.09"e
16 a vani hotel Katukurunda (southward boundary of 
Kalutara
estuary) to
Kalutara
6°34'14.95"N 79°57'34.09"e
Low 15 25 40
beruwala Kechchimale mosque 6°28'13.40"N 79°58'24.47"e

<!-- page 141 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
141a
Segment
No.
Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
17
beruwala Kechchimale mosque to Kalutara/
Galle
6°28'13.40"N 79°58'24.47"e
    Low (+) 15 30 45
induruwa headland (saman Villa hotel) 6°23'44.92"N 80°00'15.33"e
18 induruwa headland (saman Villa hotel) to
Galle
6°23'44.92"N 80°00'15.33"e
   Low 15 25 40
hikkaduwa river mouth 6°08'58.03"N 80°05'57.27"e
19
hikkaduwa river mouth
Galle
6°08'58.03"N 80°05'57.27"e
Low (-) 10 25 35bambagala ela  6°01'40.23"N 80°14'32.42"e
20 bambagala ela to
Galle
6°01'40.23"N 80°14'32.42"e
Low 15 25 40
Unawatuna Welledewalaya 6°00'23.34"N 80°14'39.16"e
21 Unawatuna Welledewalaya to
  Galle/
matara
6°00'23.34"N 80°14'39.16"e
Low (-) 10 25 35
Goyambokka peace heaven hotel headland  
(Julgahawella fishing Landing site)    
6°00'51.30"N 80°47'10.38"e
22
Goyambokka peace heaven hotel headland
(Julgahawella fishing Landing site) to hambantota 6°00'51.30"N 80°47'10.38"e Low 15 25 40
rakawa West 6°02'32.19"N 80°51'38.27"e

<!-- page 142 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
142a
Segment
No.
Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
23 rakawa West to
hambantota
6°02'32.19"N 80°51'38.27"e
    medium 
(-)
20 30 50
Kalamatiya henagahapugala 6°04'31.10"N 80°56'10.44"e
24
Kalamatiya henagahapugala to
hambantota
6°04'31.10"N 80°56'10.44"e
    medium 
(+)
25 35 60
Ussangoda Wild Life National park southern  
boundary
(Lunama side) (Kalamatiya Wild Life sanctuary 
area)
6°05'13.04"N 80°58'37.61"e
25
Ussangoda Wild Life National park southern 
boundary
(Lunama side) to hambantota
6°05'13.04"N 80°58'37.61"e
300 300
Ussangoda Wild Life National park Northern 
boundary
(Close to Ussangoda fishery harbor) Ussangoda 
Wild Life National park
6° 05'43.00"N 80°59'23.90"e
26
Ussangoda Wild Life National park Northern 
boundary
(Close to Ussangoda fishery harbor) to
hambantota 6° 05'43.00"N 80°59'23.90"e Low 
15 25 40
Godawaya Walawe river mouth (Close to 
CC&CRMD Office) 6°06'24.48"N 81°03'02.31"e

<!-- page 143 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
143a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
27
Godawaya Walawe river mouth (Close to 
CC&CRMDOffice) to hambantota 6°06'24.48"N 81°03'02.31"e medium 
(-)
20 30 50
hambantota sea port southern boundary 
(mirijjawila) 6°06'52.85"N 81°05'46.64"e
   sub - Newly formed land (reclaim area) 10 0 10
28
hambantota sea port southern boundary to
hambantota
6°06'52.85"N 81°05'46.64"e
medium 
(+)
25 35 60
hambantota fishery harbour  6° 7'24.05"N 81° 7'45.18"e
29
   hambantota fishery harbour to
hambantota
 6° 7'24.05"N 81° 7'45.18"e
medium 20 35 55
bundala National park southern boundary 6° 08'01.51"N 81°07'59.32"e
30
bundala National park southern boundary 
hambantota to hambantota 6° 08'01.51"N 81°07'59.32"e 300 300
Kirindi Oya river mouth (bundala National park)
6°11'46.70"N 81°17'44.90"e
31
Kirindi Oya river mouth to
hambantota 6°11'46.70"N 81°17'44.90"e extremely 
high
45 80 125
Kirinda andagala headland start point (Close to
andagala modara) 6°11'55.94"N 81°19'26.88"e
32
Kirinda andagala headland start point (Close to
andagala modara) to hambantota 6°11'55.94"N 81°19'26.88"e high (-) 25 40 65
Kirinda t emple rock 6°12'50.15"N 81°20'16.27"e

<!-- page 144 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
144a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
33
Kirinda t emple rock to
hambantota
6°12'50.15"N 81°20'16.27"e
extremely 
high
45 80 125
y ala palatupana sL tda  t ourism Zone end point
(Gode (Kalapuwa) Lagoon boundary) 6°16'26.67"N 81°25'11.56"e
34
y ala palatupana sL tda  t ourism Zone end point
( Gode (Kalapuwa) Lagoon boundary)to
hambantota/
6°16'26.67"N 81°25'11.56"e 300 300
y ala National park Northern boundary (Okanda) ampara
6°21'46.50"N 81°31'44.00"e
35
y ala National park Northern boundary (Okanda)to
ampara
6°21'46.50"N 81°31'44.00"e
extremely 
high
45 80 125panakala Lagoon mouth (panama Conservation Zone 
start point) 6° 43'29.37" N 81°48'06.97"e
36
 panakala Lagoon mouth (panama Conservation Zone 
start point) to ampara  6° 43'29.37" N 81°48'06.97"e
10 10 panama Lagoon mouth becon Lamp rock    
 (panama Conservation Zone end point) 6° 46'02.61" N 81°49'32.37"e
37
panama Lagoon mouth becon Lamp rock to
ampara
6° 46'02.61" N 81°49'32.37"e
high (+) 35 60 95Kudakalli Crocadile rock (hada Oya river mouth) 6° 48'35.38"N 81°49'28.11"e
38 Kudakalli Crocodile rock (hada Oya river mouth) 
to ampara 6° 48'35.38"N 81°49'28.11"e high (-) 25 40 65
arugambay Ulla sand dune start point 6°50'4.63"N 81°50'14.24"e

<!-- page 145 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
145 a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
39
a rugambay Ulla sand dune start point to 
a mpara
6°50'4.63"N 81°50'14.24" e e xtremely 
h igh 45 80 125Arugambay Ulla surfing point 6°50'21.76"N 81°50'8.89" e
 40
   Arugambay Ulla Surfing Point to
     a mpara
6°50'21.76"N 81°50'8.89" e
 Low (+)           10 30 40   a rugambay b ridge 6° 51'03.20"N 81°49'55.10" e
41
a rugambay b ridge to
a mpara
6° 51'03.20"N 81°49'55.10" e
m edium (-)
20 30            50Viski p oint s and d une s tart p oint (Kanahar Gramam 
(326 Km p ost) 6° 55'05.55"N 81°50'51.78" e
42
V iski p oint s and d une s tart p oint (Kanahar Gramam 
(326 Km p ost) to a mpara 6° 55'05.55"N 81°50'51.78" e
 m edium 20 35 55
s angamankanda p oint 7° 01'21.39"N 81°52'42.46" e
43
s angamankanda p oint to
a mpara
7° 01'21.39"N 81°52'42.46" e
h igh 30 50 80t hambattai (Close to t hambattai Kovil and Gayatri
t hapovanam 354 .5Km p ost) 7°08'17.96"N 81°51'27.50" e
44
t hambattai (Close to t hambattai Kovil and Gayatri
t hapovanam 354.5 Km post) to a mpara 7°08'17.96"N 81°51'27.50" e V ery h igh 40 70 110
a layadiwembu (Narrow s trip) 7°12'26.40"N 81°51'43.75" e
45
a layadiwembu to a mpara 7°12'26.40"N 81°51'43.75" e
h igh (-) 25 40 65Oluvil h arbour Northern b oundary (Close to Light
h ouse) 7°16' 48.18"N 81°51'58.01" e
46
Oluvil h arbour Northern b oundary (Close to Light
h ouse) to
a mpara 7°16' 48.18"N 81°51'58.01" e
h igh (-) 25 40 65
s and b ar s tarting p oint 7°27'58.08"N 81°48'58.66" e

<!-- page 146 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
146a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
47
sand bar starting point ampara /
batticaloa
7°27' 58.08"N 81°48'58.66"e
 high 30 50 80
Kaththankudy dean road al tharika mosque 7°41'40.26"N 81°44'05.38"e
48 Kaththankudy dean road al tharika mosque to batticaloa 7°41'40.26"N 81°44'05.38"e
  high (-) 25 40 65Kallady beach park (sarawanaady road) 7°43'04.71"N 81°43'10.19"e
49 Kallady beach park (sarawanaady road) to batticaloa 7°43'04.71"N 81°43'10.19"e
extremely 
high
45 80
125
batticaloa Light house (paalmeenmadu) 7°45'18.42"N 81°41'07.46"e
50
batticaloa Light house (paalmeenmadu) to batticaloa 7°45'18.42"N   81°41'07.46"e
high 30 50 80
   punniyakudah point  7°49'40.60"N  81°37'10.90"e
51
punniyakudah point to batticaloa 7°49'40.60"N   81°37'10.90"e
 high (-) 25 40 65
Outlet Near pasikudah fishery Landing site 7°56'06.76"N   81°33'38.13"e
52
Outlet Near pasikudah fishery Landing site to batticaloa 7°56'06.76"N   81°33'38.13"e
Very high 40 70 110
Nasivanthive Lagoon mouth 7°56'46.50"N   81°32'42.80"e

<!-- page 147 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
147a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
53
Nasivanthive Lagoon mouth to
batticaloa
7°56'46.50"N 81°32'42.80"e
      high 30 50 80
Challitivu munai point (Close to Challitivu island) 8°06'35.36"N 81°27'33.88"e
54
Challitivu munai point(Close to Challitivu island)to
batticaloa / 
t rincomalee
8°06'35.36"N 81°27'33.88"e
high 30 50 80Lankapatuna 8°21'24.60"N 81°23'19.00"e
55
Lankapatuna to
t rincomalee
8°21'24.60"N 81°23'19.00"e
 high (+) 35 60 95
foul point ( thirukonamalai Light house) 8°31'31.33"N 81°19'07.15"e
56
foul point ( thirukonamala Light house)to
t rincomalee
8°31'31.33"N 81°19'07.15"e medium (-) 20 30 50
muthur east river mouth (Close to police station) 8°27'42.54"N 81°15'33.37"e
57
muthur east river mouth (Close to police station) to
t rincomalee
8°27'42.54"N 81°15'33.37"e
high 30 50 80Gangei bridge 8°27'37.44"N 81°13'44.08"e
58
Gangei bridge to
t rincomalee
8°27'37.44"N 81°13'44.08"e
 medium (-) 20 30 50
irrakkandy bridge (river mouth) 8°43'55.40"N 81°10'24.60"e
  sub Zone- thambalagamuwa bay sub Zone
  thambalagamuwa bridge southern point
   t rincomalee
   8°30'19.49"N    81°11'25.40"e
special
segment ii 10 20 30
  
  sub Zone intermediate points
   8°29'16.91"N
   8°30'37.60"N
   8°32'41.94"N
   8°31'34.01"N
   8°30'47.61"N
   81°08'02.94"e
   81°06'57.18"e
   81°08'57.12"e
   81°10'39.21"e
   81°11'07.71"e
  thambalagamuwa bridge Northern point    8°30'32.00"N    81°11'32.62"e

<!-- page 148 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
148a
Segment
No. Segments Source 
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
59
irrakkandy bridge (river mouth) to
t rincomalee
8°43'55.40"N 81°10'24.60"e
high 30 50 80
salpayaru bridge 8°47'27.02"N 81°07'13.03"e
60
salpayaru bridge to
t rincomalee
8°47'27.02"N 81°07'13.03"e
medium (-) 20 30 50
Kuchchaveli puduwakattu 8° 51'33.28"N 81°04'8.77"e
61
Kuchchaveli puduwakattu to
t rincomalee
 8° 51'33.28"N 81°04'8.77"e
high (-) 25 40 65pulmude arisimale point 8°56'17.05"N 81°00'26.64"e
62
pulmude arisimale point to
t rincomalee
8°56'17.05"N 81°00'26.64"e
extremely 
high  
45 80 125
Kokilai Lagoon southern boundary 8° 59'02.80"N 80°58'00.20"e
63
Kokilai Lagoon southern boundary to
mullaitivu 8° 59'02.80"N 80°58'00.20"e Very high 40 70 110
mullaitivu t own 9° 16'03.02"N 80°49'15.96"e
64
mullaitivu t own to
mullaitivu
9° 16'03.02"N 80°49'15.96"e
high 30 50 80
mullaitivu mohotthuwaram/Vattuvan Lagoon 9°16'33.75"N 80°49'0.39"e
65
  mullaitivu mohotthuwaram/Vattuvan Lagoon to mullaitivu 9°16'33.75"N 80°49'0.39"e
Very high 40 70 110
Naliatannitoduvay (Chundikulam National park 
southern
  boundary)
Kilinochchi
9°27'28.40"N 80°37'19.06"e

<!-- page 149 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
149a
Segment
No. Segments Source
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
66
Naliatannitoduvay (Chundikulam National park 
southern
boundary) to Kilinochchi
9°27'28.40"N 80°37'19.06"e
300 300
Chundikulam National park Northern
boundary (Kaddaikadut)
 9°33'43.45"N 80°29'24.20"e
67
Chundikulam Northern boundary (Kaddaikadut) 
to
Jaffna
9°33'43.45"N 80°29'24.20"e
Very high 
40 70
110
thumpalai (point pedro) 9°49'05.00"N 80°15'16.60"e
68
thumpalai (point pedro) to
Jaffna
9°49'05.00"N 80°15'16.60"e
Low (-)
10 25
35
ponnalai 9°46'31.54"N 79°54'37.72"e
69
 ponnalai to 
Jaffna
9°46'31.54"N    
79°54'37.72"e
     
special
segment iii
              10 0            10
ariyalai 9°38'11.50"N    80°4'25.40"e
70
Karaitivu island exposed to sea
70 (a) to 70 (b) Jaffna
9°45'50.76"N 79°53'30.99"e
high 30 50 80
9°42'24.92"N 79°51'55.53"e
Karaitivu island exposed to Land
 70 (b) to 70 (a) Jaffna
   
9°42'24.92"N
   
79°51'55.53"e special
segment iii
10 0 10
9°45'50.76"N 79°53'30.99"e
71 mandative island Jaffna
9°35'58.20"N 79°58'43.20"e
medium (-) 20 30 50
9°38'16.20"N 79°59'19.56"e
        
72
        
 72 (a) Kytes island section 1 
 (allapiddy to Velanailyanar Kovil) Jaffna
9°42'10.47"N 79°51'49.14"e
medium (-) 20 30 50
 72 (b) Kytes island section ii 9°37'14.33"N   79°58'47.86"e special 
segment iii
10 0 10

<!-- page 150 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
150a
Segment
No. Segments Source
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
73 punkudutive island
Jaffna 9°35'22.40"N 79°48'26.60"e   high (-) 25 40 65
9°35'17.50"N 79°48'07.50"e
74 Nainathive island
Jaffna
9°37'08.30"N 79°46'30.70"e
  high (-) 25 40 65
9°35'05.30"N 79°46'23.30"e
75 delft island  Jaffna high 30 50 80
76 analaitivu, eluvaitivu, Kachchativu and other 
islands
Other island 
Jaffna/ 
Kilinochchi
   high (-) 25 40 65
77   iranativu island Kilinochchi high 30 50 80
78
pooneryn Kalmunai point to
Kilinochchi 9°35'57.25"N 80°03'07.56"e
medium (-) 20 30 50pallikuda 9°29'10.95"N 80°11'09.71"e
79 pallikuda to
Kilinochchi 9°29'10.95"N 80°11'09.71"e
high (-) 25 40 65devil point 9°23'19.50"N 80°03'11.10"e
80 devil point to
Kilinochchi
9°23'19.50"N 80°03'11.10"e
high 30 50 80Nachchikuda (Nawanthurai point) 9°16'06.10"N 80°06'46.80"e
81
Nachchikuda (Nawanthurai point) to Kilinochchi/ 
mannar
9°16'06.10"N 80°06'46.80"e
   high (+) 35 60 95palliaru North Ward point 9°09'33.20"N 80°05'57.92"e
82 palliaru North Ward point to mannar 9°09'33.20"N 80°05'57.92"e
extremely 
high
45 80 125Wankalai point 8°56'36.55"N 79°55'07.28"e
83
mannar south bar to mannar
island
8°57'53.10"N 79°53'08.55"e
medium (-) 20 30 50erukkalampiddi Causeway point to thona 9°01'38.96"N 79°53'35.76"e

<!-- page 151 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
151a
Segment
No. Segments Source
Map
Latitude Longitude
Level of
Vulnerability
Proposed Setback(M)
Reservation Restricted Total
Setback
84
erukkalampiddi Causeway point thona to mannar
island 9°01'38.96"N 79°53'35.76"e high 30 50 80
pesalai Vankalaipadu 9°04'46.49"N 79°50'52.46"e
85
pesalaiVankalaipadu to mannar
island 9°04'46.49"N 79°50'52.46"e medium (-) 20 30 50
thalaimannar Light house/pier 9°06'27.23"N 79°43'49.12"e
86
thalaimannar Light house/pier to mannar
island 9°06'27.23"N 79°43'49.12"e  high 30 50 80
mannar island south bar 8°57'53.10"N 79°53'08.55"e
87
mannar island south bar to mannar
island 8°57'53.10"N 79°53'08.55"e No build Zone No build
ZoneVankalai point (proposed Conservation/No 
build Zone.)   8°55'50.40"N 79°54'26.28"e
88 Vankalaipoint to
mannar
8°55'50.40"N 79°54'26.28"e
extremel
high
45 80 125
Vankalai sanctury southern boundary 8°53'26.30"N 79°55'44.70"e
89
Vankalai sanctury southern boundary to
mannar
8°53'26.30"N 79°55'44.70"e
  high 30 50 80arippu east 8°47'44.63"N 79°55'27.45"e
90 arippu east  to
mannar
8°47'44.63"N 79°55'27.45"e
high (-) 25 40 65pukkulam modaragam aru   8°33'48.67"N 79°55'12.80"e
91 pukkulam modaragam aru to
puttalam
8°33'48.67"N 79°55'12.80"e
300 300Kala Oya river mouth (Wilpattu National park) 8°17'43.80"N 79°50'02.96"e
92 Kala Oya river mouth (Wilpattu National park)
puttalam
  8°17'43.80"N   79°50'02.96"e
high 30 50 80   puttalam Lagoon enter point   8°13'58.04"N   79°47'22.33"e

<!-- page 152 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
152a
Note: Setback standard is not applicable for the development taking place in the landward area covered within the 
routes of the breakwaters of the fishery harbors as determined by the DG CC&CRMD.
Level of
Vulnerability
Reservation Area Restricted Area Total Setback
Low (-) 10 25 35
Low 15 25 40
Low (+) 15 30 45
m edium (-) 20 30 50
medium 20 35 55
medium (+) 25 35 60
high (-) 25 40 65
high 30 50 80
high (+) 35 60 95
Very high 40 70 110
extremely high 45 80 125
 6.2  Classification of Coastal segments by level of Vulnerability and Setback distances (in meters)
Segment Reservation Area Restricted Area Total Setback
Conservation Zones 300  300
protected areas No build Zone
Out of the Affected area 
declared by CC&Crmd
10 0 10
special segment i 
(port City segment)
port City regulations will apply
special segment ii 10 20 30
special segment iii 10 0 10
Special Coastal Segments

<!-- page 153 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
153a
Figure 6- 4: Coastal v ulnerability Map of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 154 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
154a
Name Location/Geographical Coordinate** 
Latitude(N) Longitude (E)
Coastal Length 
(km)
Extent (ha) Year of 
Establishment
 1. bar reef sanctuary 8°16’00 - 8°32’00” 79°40’75 - 79°49’70” 75 30,670 1992.04.03
 2. honduwa island sanctuary 6°27’17 - 6°23’55” 79°58’31 - 80°00’16”    9 1973.11.19
 3. t elwatta sanctuary* 6°16’00 - 6°08’55” 80°01’53 - 80°03’52” 1,425 1938.02.25
 4. ambalangoda – hikkaduwa rocky islets sanctuary 6°09’00 - 6°08’00” 80°08’00 - 80°05’00” 638 m   1 1940.10.25
 5. hikkaduwa National park 04.8 102 2002.10.08
 6. parappaduwa Nuns island and polgasduwa sanctuary* entire island and lagoon 22 1,988 1988.08.17
 7. Kalametiya lagoon sanctuary* 6°05’00 - 6°06’00” 80°56’00 - 80°59’00” 4.72 2,525 1984.06.28
 8. bundala National park 6°07’00 - 6°14’00” 80°07’00 - 81°17’00” 21.33 6,216 2004.07.28
9. Nimalawa sanctuary 6°08’20 - 6°46’05 81°08’46 - 81°49’25” 03.25 1,066 1993.02.18
10. ruhuna(y ala) – National park* 6°16’00 - 6°42’00 81°15’00 - 81°41’30” 45.4 97,881 1938.02.25
11. y ala strict Natural reserve* 6°16’00 - 6°42’00 81°15’00 - 81°41’30” 28,906 1938.03.01
12. Kumana National park* 6°16’00 - 6°42’00 81°04’00 - 81°45’00” 15.4 35,665 2006.09.05
13. Kudumbigala sanctuary * 6°46’05 - 6°57’23 81°49’25 - 81°51’30” 12.35 6,534 2006.02.20
14. seruwila – allei sanctuary * 8°20’00 - 8°25’00 81°20’00 - 81°23’00” 15.8 15,540 1970.10.09
15. Greater sober island entire island 03.91 65 1963.06.21
16. Little sober island sanctuary* entire island 898 m   7 1963.06.21
17. pigeon island National park entire island 08.34 471 2003.06.04
18. Kokilai Lagoon sanctuary* 8°56’00 - 9°03’00 80°52’00 - 80°58’00” 01.15 1,995 1951.05.18
19. Chundikulam National park* 9°26’00 - 9°32’00 80°24’00 - 80°37’00” 32.56 19,565 2015.06.22
20. paritivu islands sanctuary* entire island 02.38 970 1973.05.18
21. Wilpattu National park* 36.8 131,667 1938,1941,1973
22. madampawila sanctuary 01.2 1,217 2007.09.21
23. rekawa sanctuary 3.58 271 2006.05.25
24. Godawaya sanctuary 4.15 232 2006.05.25
25. Ussangoda National park 04.0 349 2010.05.06
26. rumassala sanctuary 5.0 171 2003.01.03
27. Vankalai sanctuary 14.8 4,839 2008.09.08
28. adams bridge National park 57 18,990 2015.06.22
29. delft National park 1,846.28 2015.06.22
30. Veduthalathivu Natural reserve 32.8 29,180 2016.03.01
Table 6- 3 : Protected Areas Bordering the Coastal Zone of Sri Lanka

<!-- page 155 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
155a
Sources:
 1. IUCN Directory of South Asian Protected Areas 1989
 2. Department of Wildlife Conservation (2016), Marine Protected areas & associated Marine Protected areas
 6.7  MANAGING SITES OF SPECIAL SIGNIFICANCE AND PuBLIC ACCESS
  The previous CZMPs of 1990, 1997and 2004 the issue of loss and degradation of sites of special significance within 
the Coastal Zone that include archaeological, historical, religious, cultural sites and scenic areas as a separate Chapter. 
In addition, enhancement and protection of both lateral and vertical access to and along the coast was also emphasized. 
however, to maintain consistency and produce user-friendly CC&Crmp , these aspects have been incorporated into 
the chapter on regulatory mechanism in the CC&Crmp  2024 similar to CC&Crmp2018, instead of addressing as a 
separate issue. The sites of special significance located within the Coastal Zone are of considerable importance for the 
preservation of the cultural heritage of the country. these sites are prone to be despoiled than the monuments in the 
hinterland due to natural causes such as coastal erosion, other coastal hazards as well as rapid development activities. 
thus, it is important to take necessary management interventions to preserve these sites through adequate management 
interventions.
 6.7.1 Public Access
  Coastal access can be defined as the right of approach and using an approach (access) to or along a coastal margin 
by the public, in a physical and visual sense. With the rapid development of the Coastal Zone in the recent past, 
public access to and along the coast emerged as a critical issue. the public right to access to the beach for purposes 
of, recreational and economic activities has been traditionally recognized in the past. However, in recent times, 
the rapid development of fishing activities, shrimp aquaculture, tourism, harbour development, coast protection, 
human settlements and national security requirements have caused restrictions in access to, and along the beach in 
numerous ways. In the context of economic development activities thriving in the Coastal Zone after the conflict 
that prevailed in the northern and the eastern coastal regions, public access plays  an important role specifically 
since the ownership of the foreshore, beach, coastal waters and the bottom of the sea are vested with the state; it is 
therefore incumbent upon the state to ensure public has free access to those resources to carry out their legitimate 
activities.
  in considering the importance of ensuring public access to and along the beaches, new legal provisions have been 
introduced through Coast Conservation (amendment) act, No. 49 of 2011 to formulate “Coastal access plan” under 
part 111d section 22 of the amendments. thus in compliance with the legal provision, action has been initiated by 
the CC&Crmd to formulate and implement a “National Coastal access plan”. mapping of beach access in baticaloa 
District has been carried out in 2021 and mapping of beach access in Mannar, Kilinochchi, Jaffna and Mulathivu 
districts has been initiated in 2022 by the CC&Crmd.
 6.7.2 Sites of Archaeological, Historical, Religious and Cultural Significance
  The high priority archaeological, historical, religious and cultural sites have been identified through a field survey 
conducted in 1989 and updated in 2002. The list of high priority sites is given in Table 6.4. As per the field survey, 
the following management issues have been identified;
 o absence of proper management guidelines has led to degrading the quality of the high priority sites within the 
Coastal Zone due to unplanned and unauthorized development activities.
 o Lack of awareness on the importance of the sites among the public and the sectoral agencies have led to degradation 
due to encroachments and development.
 o Lack of financial commitment from the respective agencies for implementing conservation plans resulted in loss 
and degradation of the sites.
 o some of the high priority sites in the Coastal Zone of north and the eastern provinces have been damaged due to 
the civil conflict that prevailed during the last over three decades until 2009.

<!-- page 156 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
156a
 o Lack of proper consideration of the value and significance of the sites have contributed to degradation and inadequate 
attention of the relevant authorities.
in view the above management issues, necessary policy guidelines, management strategies and actions have been 
introduced by the CC & CRMD through the 1990, 1997 and 2004 the 2018 CC & CRMP respectively. Although the effectiveness 
of previous management strategies and actions could not be presented in a quantifiable manner, the development activities in 
the vicinity of such sites have been effectively controlled through the development permit system, EIA and IEE procedures, 
while enhancing the public awareness.
In view of the above, specific attention will be given to protect these valuable monuments (see Table 6.4) through 
the development permit system and application of new legal provisions in the CC&Crm act, No. 57 of 1981. more over 
inter agency coordination will be promoted to ensure effective management.
Table 6- 4: High priority archaeological, historical, religious and cultural sites within the Coastal Zone
Puttalam District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
1 Kudiramalai pre-historic site a/h/C pukulam 634
2 Kollan Kanatta pre-historic site a/h/C pukulam 634
3 dutch Church* h/C sinnakudirippu 631
4 dutch fort* h/C sinnakudirippu 631
5 dutch house a/h sinnakudirippu 631
6 st. anne’s Church h/r/C mudalaipali 625/626
7 sri mariamman Kovil h/r/C Udappuwa 594
8 Kali amman Kovil h/r/C Udappuwa 594
9 mohideen Jumma mosque h/r/C Udappuwa 594
10 sri pathasrdhi draupadi Kovil h/r/C Udappuwa 594
11 a yyanar Kovil h/r/C Karukkaponai 582
12 Wanawasa st.anthony’s Church h/r/C Karukkaponai 582
13 st.anthony’s Church,thoduwawa s. h/r/C thoduwawa s. 531
14 st. anthony’s Chruch h/C/r Ulhitiyawa North 294
Gampaha District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
15 Kudapaduwa Church h/C/r ettukala 73
16 st. sebastian Church h/C/r Wellaweediya 158
17 main street Church h/C/r munnakkare 156
18 district Court building a/h munnakkare 156
19 Negombo fort a/h munnakkare 156
20 Church of  Our Lady Of sindrathri h/C/r duwa 162a
21 shipwreck a(m) duwa 162a
22 st. anne’s Church h/C/r pitipana 162
23 st. mary magdalena Church h/C/r t alahena 163
24 st. babara’s Church h/C/r t alahena 163

<!-- page 157 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
157a
Place Type GN Division GND No.
25 st. anthony’s Church h/C/r Kepungoda 163a
26 st. Joseph’s Church h/C/r pamunugama 164
27 shipwrecks a(m) Uswetakeyyawa 167
28 Church of Our Lady of mount Carmel h/C/r palliyawatta 168
Colombo District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
29 Whist bungalow a/h/C modara 2
30 siva Kovil h/C/r modara 2
31 st. James’ Church h/C/r aluth mawatha 4
32 Jumma mosque h/C/r aluth mawatha 4
33 sri ponnambalameswar Kovil h/C/r Kochchikade 9
34 st. thomas’ Church h/C/r Kochchikade 9
35 st. anthony’s Church h/C/r Kochchikade 9
36 Colombo fort a/h/C fort 20
37 Colombo harbour a/h/C fort 20
38 Jami Ul-alfar mosque h/C/r fort 20
39 Gordon Gardens h/C fort 20
40 st. peter’s Church h/C fort 20
41 hotel t aprobane h/C fort 20
42 Khan Clock t ower h/C fort 20
43 Naval headquarters h/C fort 20
44 Galbokke Lighthouse h/C fort 20
45 Cargills, department stores h/C fort 20
46 president’s house h/C fort 20
47 Former General Post Office Building h/C fort 20
48 Chatham street Clock t ower h/C fort 20
49 dutch hospital h/C fort 20
50 prison Cell of sri Wickrama rajasinghe h/C fort 20
51 Old parliament building h/C fort 20
52 Old secretariat h/C fort 20
53 Galle face Green h/C slave island 21
54 beira Lake h/C slave island 21
55 t aj samudra hotel h/C slave island 21
56 Galle face Court h/C Kollupitiya 37
57 Galle face hotel h/C Kollupitiya 37
58 t emple t rees h/C Kollupitiya 37

<!-- page 158 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
158a
Place Type GN Division GND No.
59 st. andrew’s scots Kirk r/h/C Kollupitiya 37
60 sri darmakirtiyaramaya r/h/C Kollupitiya 37
61 dutch reformed Church r/h/C bambalapitiya 38
62 borah mosque r/h/C Wellawatta 38
63 ramakrishna mission r/h/C mount Lavinia 47
64 dutch Church r/h/C mount Lavinia 541
65 st. thomas College h/C mount Lavinia 541
66 Grand hotel h/C mount Lavinia 541
67 st. francis Xavier’s Church h/C angulana 547
68 duwe dewale Church h/C angulana 547
69 Lunawa devale r/h/C Uyana 552
70 methodist Church r/h/C Uyana 552
71 st. Joseph’s Church r/h/C Uyana 552
72 t alarukkharamaya r/h/C Katukurunda 555
73 bodhirajaramaya r/h/C egoda Uyana 556
Kalutara District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
74 rankot Viharaya r/h/C pattiya North 685
75 sri sudharmaramaya r/h/C Nalluruwa 692
76 samudraramaya r/h/C t alpitiya 697
77 parana Walawwa h/C molligoda 704
78 sri sudharma dharma salawa r/h/C mahawaskaduwa 714
79 asokaramaya r/h/C Kalutara North 717
80 pulinatalaramaya r/h/C Kalutara North 717
81 Kalutara fort r/h Kalutara south 725
82 Kalutara bodhiya (Gangatilaka Vihara) r/h/C Kalutara south 725
83 Church of the infant Christ r/h/C Kalamulla 731
84 st. Joseph’s Church r/h/C Kuda paiyagala 734
85 rajeswari Church r/h/C Kuda paiyagala 734
86 st. Joseph’s Church r/h/C maha paiyagala 735
87 francis Xavier’s Church r/h/C maha paiyagala 735
88 purana Chetiyaramaya r/h/C magalkanda 746
89 Kechchimale mosque r/h/C paranakade 753/757
90 beruwala Lighthouse h/C paranakade 753/757
91 maradana mosque r/h/C maradana 754
92 duwe Viharaya r/h/C moragalla 760/761

<!-- page 159 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
159a
Galle District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
93 bentota rest house h/C pahurumulla 1
94 bentota rajamahavihara r/h/C pahurumulla 1
95 Village Council building h/C angagoda 2
96 sri Gnanawimala purana Vihara r/h/C ahungalla 18
97 samudraramaya r/h/C ahungalla 18
98 sumanaramaya r/h/C ahungalla 89
99 Jumma muslim mosque r/h/C balapitiya 89
100 sri subhadraramaya r/h/C balapitiya 89
101 ambalangoda r est house and dutch 
Church school
h/C balapitiya 82
102 modara devale r/h/C maha ambalangoda 82
103 Chetiyagiri purana Viharaya r/h/C maha ambalangoda 80
104 shipwreck a(m) akurala 76
105 sinigama devalaya r/h/C sinigama 64
106 subhadraramaya r/h/C t otagamuwa 61
107 sailabimbaramaya r/h/C dodanduwa 51
108 Nashir mohamed mosque r/h/C Gintota 103
109 miran mosque r/h/C Gintota 103
110 hussain mosque r/h/C Gintota 103
111 devol devalaya r/h/C Gintota 103
112 shipwreck a(m) Gintota 103
113 Veheragala r/h/C Gintota 103
114 Galle fort h/C Galle fort 96
115 ahangama maha Viharaya r/h/C ahangama Central east 157,156
116 st. mary’s Church r/h/C dangedara south, Kaluwella 97a, 98C
117 sri minachchi sundanesvar t emple r/h/C dangedara south, Kaluwella 97a, 98C
118 sri Kadira Velayudha swamy Kovil r/h/C dangedara south, Kaluwella 97a, 98C
119 the Closenberg h/C magalla 99
120 shipwreck m.a magalla 99
121 Welle devalaya r/h/C Unawatuna West 137
122 ariyakara Viharaya r/h/C t alpe south 132
123 sri subhadraramaya r/h/C Koggala 144 a

<!-- page 160 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
160 a
Place Type GN Division GND No.
124 b irth p lace Of m artin Wickramasinghe 
and f olk m useum
h /C Koggala 144 a
125 d evagiri Vihara ( h irugal d evale) h /C Koggala 144 a
126 a ir b ase h Koggala 144 a
127 a luth Walawwa h /C Kataluwa West 162
Matara District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
128 r ajakulawadana r aja m aha Viharaya r / h /C m ahawediya 382
129 t heruvila Kovil r / h /C m ahawediya 382
130 Veluvanaramaya r / h /C m irissa s outh 406
131 b odhi t ree a nd d evalaya r / h /C m irissa s outh 406
132 s ri s ubhadraramaya r / h /C m irissa s outh 406
133 s amudragiri Viharaya r / h /C m irissa s outh 406
134 s ri s ubhadraramaya r / h /C Kamburugamuwa 408
135 s amudrateera Viharaya r / h /C Kamburugamuwa 408
136 Kompannawatta Kovil r / h /C m adihe 411
137 p ujita Nivasa h /C m adihe 411
138 Jaya m aha Viharaya r / h /C p olhena 412
139 Galagediyawa Viharaya r / h /C p olhena 412
140 m atara f ort r / h /C Kadaweediya 417 b , C
141 Church of Our Lady of matara r / h /C Ganigasmulla 416
142 Wellamadama a mbalama r / h /C m edawatta 425
143 Kihireli Viharaya r / h /C d evinuwara West 433a
144 Vishnu d evalaya r / h /C d evinuwara West 433a
145 m uhandiram Walawwa h /C d evinuwara West 433a
146 Lighthouse h /C d evinuwara West 433a
147 s inhasana Kovila r / h /C d evinuwara West 433a
148 Wanawasa r aja m aha Viharaya r / h /C d evinuwara West 433a
149 t algashena Viharaya a / r / h /C Gandara e  &.W. 473/47 3a
150 s iri s umanarama r / h /C Kottegoda 440
151 a bhayadeera Walawwa h /C Kottegoda 440
152 Gurukanda Viharaya r / h /C b atigama 451
153 m aligatenna r aja m aha Viharaya r / h /C d odampahala e . 453a
154 Veherahena m inikirule r aja m aha
Viharaya
r / h /C d odampahala e . 453a

<!-- page 161 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
161a
Hambantota District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
155 Wdukaramaya r/h/C Kudawella W.&.e 464a, b
156 t angalla fort h/C Kotuwegoda 458
157 t angalla bodhiya r/h/C Kotuwegoda 458
158 Giribandu Viharaya r/h/C Kotuwegoda 458
159 burial Ground h/C Kotuwegoda 458
160 rest house (Old Wing) h/C Kotuwegoda 458
161 Vehera Navaya r/h/C bata ata 562
162 Ussangoda a Lunama 555
163 Gothapabbata Viharaya a/r/h/C Walawa 586
164 Godavaya port a/h Walawa 586
165 martello t ower h/C hambantota 584
166 New mosque r/h/C hambantota 584
167 bundala archaeological reserve a bundala 604
168 t elulla buddhist ruins a/h bundala 604
169 Kirinda Viharaya r/h/C Kirinda 601
170 palatupana fort h/C Kirinda 601
171 shipwreck egypt (1922) a(m) Kirinda 601
172 shipwreck (1961) a(m) Kirinda 601
173 patanagala a/h/C magama 602
174 minihagalkanda a/h magama 602
Ampara District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
175 megalithic site, Kumana a Kumana 1
176 samuddra Viharaya r/h/C Kumana 1
177 megalithic site, panama a panama 2
178 Okandamalai a/r/h/C panama 2
179 Velayudha swami Kovil r/h/C panama 2
180 muhudu maha Viharaya r/h/C potuvil dir. L 3
181 arugam bay port a/h potuvil dir. L 3
182 Komari Lighthouse h/C Komari 9
183 sangamankanda a/h/C Komari 9
184 Komari a/h/C Komari 9
185 t irichchipulavai sri murugan Kovil r/h/C Komari 96

<!-- page 162 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
162a
Place Type GN Division GND No.
186 Chitra Velayudha Kandaswamy Kovil r/h/C thirukkovil 10
187 Kirulegama monastic site a/r/h/C thirukkovil 10
188 Kannaki amman alayam r/h/C thambavil div.L 12
189 palukamam Kovil r/h/C padiruppu div.L&2 66
190 draupathi amman Kovil r/h/C padirippu div.L &2 66
191 Kudikadakarai mosque r/h/C Kalmunai div.3 59
Batticaloa District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
192 dutch fort h/C Koddaikallar div-L&2 113
193 amparavillippillaiyar Kovil r/h/C Koddaikallar div-L&2 113
194 Kannaki amman Kovil r/h/C eruvil 115
195 Jami-Ul Lafreen mosque r/h/C Katthankudi div.L 167
196 batticaloa fort h/C puliyantivu 179
197 shipwreck a(m) puliyantivu 179
198 Church of the holy Names of Jesus r/h/C Kalkudah 204
199 sittandi h/C Valachchenai t amil div. 205
200 periyakaduveikarai h/C Valachchenai t amil div 205
201 shipwreck a(m) Kayanderni 211a
202 panichchankerni h/C mankerni 211
Trincomalee District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
203 illangaturai port a/h ichchilampattai 214
204 monastic site a/h/C Nawathkanikadu 215
205 t ampalakamam a/h/C t ampalakamam south 228a
206 Galmetiyana t ank a/h t ampalakamam south 228L
207 thirnkoneswaram Kovil r/h/C t rincomalee t own 244b
208 fort fredrick h/C t riucomalee t own 244b
209 Gokanna Viharaya r/h/C t rincomalee t own 244b
210 memorial Column, swamy rock h/C t rincomalee t own 244b
211 t rincomalee harbour a/h t rincomalee t own 244b
212 shipwreck, t rincomalee harbour a(m) t rincomalee t own 244b
213 fort Ostenberg h/C t rincomalee t own 244b

<!-- page 163 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
163a
Place Type GN Division GND No.
214 floating dock Wreck a(m) t rincomalee t own 244b
215 Kuchchaveli monastic site a/h/C Kuchchaveli 239
216 palvakki h/C Kuchchaveli 239
Mullaitivu District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
217 mulaitivu fort h/C mulaitivu t own 233
218 monastic site, Kurundanmalai a/h/C mulaitivu t own 233
Jaffna District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
219 pas payl port a/h mullian 149
220 Nakar Koyil r/h/C Nakar Koyil 145
221 Vallipuram burial a/h thunnalai 131
222 point pedro Lighthouse h/C t umpalai 140
223 hartley College h/C point pedro 137
224 KKs Lighthouse h/C Kankasanthurai 67
225 KKs. fort h/C Kankasanthurai 67
226 sambalturai port (Jambukolapattana) a/h/C Keeramalai 64a
227 Keeramalai springs h/C Keeramalai 64a
228 Naguleswaram sivam Kovil r/h/C Keeramalai 64a
229 Vishnu Kovil a/h/C Keeramalai 64a
230 monastic site, Keeramalai a/h/C Keeramalai 64a
231 t iruvadi Nilai a/h/C Chulipuram 49
232 megalithic site, annaikottai a/h/C annaikottai 40
233 Jaffna Fort h/C Colomboturai 8
234 Karainagar Lighthouse h/C Karainagar North 9
235 hammenheil fort h/C Karainagar North 9
236 megalithic site a/h Karainagarweet North 9
237 port Of Kayts (Uratota) a/h allaipiddy 19
238 portuguese fort, (Urindi Kottai) h/C allaipiddy 19
239 fort eyrie h/C allaipiddy 19
240 allaippiddy a/h/C allaipiddy 19
241 Nagadeepa Viharaya r/h/C Nainativu 04
242 Nagapooshani amman Kovil r/h/C Nainativu 04
243 pungudutivu r/h/C pungudutivu 05
244 dutch fort h/C delft Central 02

<!-- page 164 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'09'13
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.09.2024
164a
Place Type GN Division GND No.
245 Nolan’s bungalow h/C delft Central 02
246 portuguse fort h/C delft West 01
247 stable, t arapitti h/C delft West 01
248 monastic site, Vadiresankottai a/h/C delft West 01
249 dutch t ower, Kuvindan h/C delft West 03
250 elephant pass fort h/C mukavil 153
Mannar District
Place Type GN Division GND No.
251 mannar h/C thoddaveli 194
252 mannar dutch fort h/C thoddaveli 194
253 t alaimannar Lighthouse (02) h/C t alaimannar 192
254 Vankalai settlement a/h/C Vankalai 195
255 t ambapanni port a/h arippu 198
256 dona Katherina’s rest (alli rani 
Kottai)
h/C arippu 198
257 dutch fort h/C arippu 198
258 Uruvela a/h/C Kokkupadayan 202
259 megalithic site, marichchukaddi a marichchukaddi 203
Protected Monument and Archaeological Reserve 
Type  A - Archaeological value C - Cultural value   H - Historical value   R - Religious value
 
REFERENCES:
 1. Government of sri Lanka: 1981. Coast Conservation and Coastal resources management act, (No. 57).
 3. Government of sri Lanka: 1981. Coast Conservation (amendment) act, (No. 64).
 4. Government of sri Lanka: 2011. Coast Conservation (amendment) act, (No. 49).
 5. Government of sri Lanka: 1980. National environment act, (No. 47).
 6. CCd: “Coastal 2000: recommendations for a resource management strategy for sri Lanka’s Coastal region”.
 7. CCd: Coastal Zone management plan 2004.
 8. Government of sri Lanka: 1940. archaeological Ordinance and the subsequent revisions of 1956, 1998 and 2000.
 9. ministry of public administration: Circular No. 21/92 of 21st may, 1992.
 10. Government of sri Lanka: 1985. Gazette Notification No. 337/48 of feb 21st.
 11. iUCN, 1989, directory of sa  protected areas.
eOG 09-0108
priNted at  the departmeNt  Of GOVerNmeNt  priNtiNG,  sri LaNKa.