

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
FOUNDATION FOR CIVILIAN BRA VERY
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 4 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 16th February, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 7.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 20, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
1
2—PL 003283—3,200  (09/2008)
[Certified on 16th February, 2009]
L.D.O.—(INC) 12/2006
A N   ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  FOUNDATION  FOR  CIVILIAN BRA VERY
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as “Foundation
for Civilian Bravery” has heretofore been established in1993
for the purpose of effectually carrying out and transacting all
objects and matters connected  with said Foundation
according to the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was established and has applied to
be incorporated and it is now desirable and expedient that
the said Foundation should be incorporated and it will be for
the public advantage to grant such application :
BE it  enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Foundation for Civilian
Bravery (Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of  2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are members for the
Foundation for Civilian Bravery (hereinafter referred to as
“the Foundation”), or shall hereinafter be admitted members
of the Corporation hereby constituted, shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as “the Corporation”) with
perpetual succession, under the name and style of the
“Foundation for Civilian Bravery” and by that name may
sue and be sued with full power and authority to have, and
use a common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
established are hereby declared to be —
(a) to foster and promote respect  for the protection of
Life;
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Foundation
for Civilian
Bravery.
General Objects
of the
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
(b) to recognize and reward nationally  and
internationally the voluntary act of any Civilian to
save life and on public property, at the risk of his life;
(c) the promotion of safety measures for the protection
of life ;
(d) the advancement of education, knowledge and
training on the various forms of dangers or
misfortunes to Life and avoidance of them ;
(e) to create awareness of various dangers to life and of
safety methods and techniques ;
(f) to promote activities in the sphere of protection of
life and Civilian Bravery ;
(g) to apply and promote measures against cruelty to
human and non human life ;
(h) to be the catalyst to establish an international
organization to pioneer the concept  of World Civilian
Bravery and protection of life ;
(i) to establish and maintain contact with international
organizations having the same or similar objects for
promoting Civilian Bravery and prevention of
misfortunes and arrange international training,
educational camps on misfortunes of mankind and
its avoidance ;
(j) to honour Civilian Bravery in protecting life ; and
(k) to engage in and promote cultural activities and media
exposures that help further the concept  of Civilian
Bravery and methods of life saving.

<!-- page 4 -->

Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
3
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion or
furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one of
them including the power to open, operate and close bank
accounts, to borrow and raise moneys with or without
security, to receive or collect grants and donations from
persons in or outside Sri Lanka, to invest its funds and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants for the
purpose of carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules in force for the time being of the Corporation, be
administered by an Executive Council consisting of the
President, the Honorary Secretary, Honorary Treasurer and
not less than two other members nominated by the President
in accordance with the rules of the Corporation, made under
section 6 of this Act.
(2) The first Executive Council of the Corporation shall
be the members of the Executive Council of the Foundation
holding office on the day preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1),
the founder President shall be the President of the Corporation.
(4) Where the post of President becomes vacant after
founder President, the next or nearest of kin of his family
shall be the President of the Corporation.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the  Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two-thirds of the members present and voting to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters :—
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
(a) classification of membership, fees payable by such
class of members and their admission, withdrawal
or expulsion of resignation ;
(b) the election of members of the Executive Council
and the office-bearers, resignation or removal from,
or vacation of, office of, members of the Executive
Council powers, duties and conduct of the members
of the Executive Council, the appointment, powers,
duties, functions and conduct of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Corporation ;
(c) the procedure to be observed at, and the summoning
and holding of meetings of,  Executive Council and
the Corporaion, filling vacancies, notices and
agenda of such meetings the quorum therefor and
the conduct of business thereat ;
(d) the qualifications and disqualifications for
membership in the  Executive Council and the
Corporation ;
(e) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
(f) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the dissolution of the Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered or rescinded at a like meeting and in like manner as a
rule made under subsection (1) of this section.
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under this section.
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations, contributions or fees  shall be deposited
in the credit of the Corporation in one or more Banks as the
Executive Council shall determine.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
5
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions, under this Act.
(3) The moneys of the Corporation shall be applied solely
towards the promotion of the objects as set forth herein and
no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly or
indirectly by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever
to the members of the Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(a) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute ; or
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established by law possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute.
9. The Seal of the Corporation shall be in the custody of
the Secretary and it shall not be affixed to any instrument
whatsoever except in the presence of two office bearers of
the Corporation designated by the rules in force, who shall
Seal of the
Corporation.
Accounts and
audits.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
sign their names on the instrument in token of their presence,
and such signing shall be independent of the signing of any
person as a witness.
10. (1) The Council shall cause to be kept, a register of
members in which every person on the day preceding the
date of commencement of this Act is a member of the Centre
and every person thereafter duly admitted as a member of the
Corporation shall have his name inscribed.
(2) The register shall contain the following particulars :—
(a) the name, address and occupation of each member
of the Corporation;
(b) the date on which the name of the member was
inscribed in the register;
(c) the date on which any person ceased to be a member.
11. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation, all debts
due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Association on the day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
12. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,
gifts, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act and subject to the rules of the Corporation, made
under section 6 with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
13. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the  amount of such membership fees as may be
due from him to  the Corporation.
Register of
Membership.
Corporation may
hold property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liability of
members.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Association.

<!-- page 8 -->

Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
7
14. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions
having objects similar to those of the Corporation and which
is or are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its members.
15. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic.

<!-- page 9 -->

8 Foundation for Civilian Bravery
(Incorporation) Act, No. 4 of 2009
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.