

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
  
                               PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ... 
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
                               PAGE 
Land Sales by the Settlement Ofﬁ cers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 116
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be ﬁ led separately)
wxl 2"125- 2019 uehs ui 24 jeks isl=rdod - 2019'05'24                                                              
No. 2,125 - FRIDAY ,  MAY 24,  2019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notiﬁ cation appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notiﬁ cations ﬁ xing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertain ing to notiﬁ cation 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.  
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  14th June, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 31th May , 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, noti ﬁ cation or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisﬁ ed if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notiﬁ cation or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”  
 GANGANI LIYANAGE,
 Government Printer 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2019.
 This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
115 - B 081525 -353 (2019/05)
Note.—  Provincial Councils (Amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 17, 2019.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2019'05'24
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 24.05.2019
116
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/52194.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: 
m<d;a$b'fld'$39$kj.$§'n3'
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND  
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby noti ﬁ ed that for the purpose of Sri Sambhodi 
Aranya Senasanaya, The Board of  Trustees of Sri Sambhodi 
Aranya Senasanaya has requested on lease a state land 
containing in extent about Hactare 0.746 marked as Lot No. 
234 in FVP 3218 and situated  in the Village of Konkadawala 
which belongs to the Grama Niladhari  Division of                                                                              
No. 645/2, Inginimitiya West coming within the area of 
authority of  Nawagattegama  Divisional Secretariat in the 
District of Puttalam.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Lot  No. 229  ;
On the East by : Lot  No. 233;
On the  South by :  Lot  No. 257;
On the West by :  Lot  No. 257.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the 
necessary purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended 
to lease out the land subject to other Government approved 
conditions and the following conditions : -
 
 ( a) Terms of the Lease .– Thirty Years (30) , ( From 
16.03.2019 onwards);
  The Annual  amount of the Lease. – 1/2 % of the 
undeveloped value of the land as per valuation of the 
chief valuer for the year 2019.
 ( c) This lessees must, within one year of the commencement 
of the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner 
as to captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary/
Provincial Land, Commissioner/ Deputy land 
Commissioner ;
 ( d) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose 
other than for the purpose of Sri Sambhodi Aranya                     
Senasanaya   ;
 ( e) The lease  must  also be subject to the other special 
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional 
Secretary, and by other Institutions;
 ( f) The Buildings constructed must be maintained in a 
proper state of repair;
 
 (g)  Once the land is given on lease and in the event of 
failure on the part of  the lessees to substantiate within 
the speci ﬁ ed time frame the purpose for which the 
land was obtained, action will be taken to terminate 
the lease;
 
 (h)   No sub -  leasing can be done until the expiry of a 
minimum period of 05 years from  16.03.2019 except 
to fulﬁ l the purpose of this lease;
 
 (i) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if 
defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso facto 
lapse.
  If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in 
writing within six weeks of the date of publishing this 
notiﬁ cation to the effect that this land must not be given 
on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
  Y . Y . N. P
ERERA,
 Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
 for Land Commissioner General.
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
"Mihikatha Medura", 
No. 1200/6,  Land Secretariat,
Rajamalwatta Road,  Battaramulla.
24th May, 2019.
05-462