

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
401
401
wxl 1"800 - 2013 ud¾;= 01 jeks isl=rdod - 2013'03'01
No. 1,800 – FRIDAY , MARCH 01, 2013
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 404
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 418
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-V acancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd March, 2013 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th
March, 2013.
P. H. L. V . DE SILV A,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2013.
This Gazette can be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part II of the Gazette No. 1,799 of 22.02.2013 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
402
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
403
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
C
OMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
404
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
GAMP AHA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st of April, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
05th February, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Application are called Applications should be sent
Gampaha Kelaniya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
of Peliyagoda Pattiya Area in General, District Secretariat,
Aluthkuru Koralaya South Division Gampaha
03–36
–––––––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
KALUTARA DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
405
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st of April, 2013.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
07th February, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Ingiriya Post of Registrar of Marriages (General) District Secretary/Additional Registrar
in Raigama Korale Division and Birth General, District Secretariat,
and Deaths of Handapangoda Division Kalutara
03–34
–––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Muslim Marriages
KALUTARA  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Muslim males only can apply for these posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other qualifications etc. could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places such
as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Developm ent
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
406
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 01st of April, 2013.
E. M. GUNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
07th February, 2013
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Divisions for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Kalutara Beruwala Post of Muslim Marriage Registrar of District Secretary/Additional Registrar
Beruwala Area in Kalutara and Panadura General, District Secretariat,
Totamuna Division Kalutara
03–35
––––––––––––––––––
GENERAL  SIR  JOHN  KOTELA WALA  DEFENCE  UNIVERSITY
UNDERGRADUATE  CADETSHIPS  (MALE/FEMALE)
1. APPLICATIONS are invited from suitably qualified Sri Lankans for Undergraduate Cadetships (Male and Female) in General Sir John
Kotelawala Defence University from 17th February 2013 to 15th March, 2013.
2. General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University is empowered to award Degrees by the General Sri John Kotelawala Defence
Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and subsequent amendments thereto, to those who have successfully completed the Academic and Military
components of studies pertaining to the Degree programmes.
3. The Degree programmes applicable to these Officer Cadets will be of five year duration for Medical Stream, four and half year
duration for Engineering Stream, four year duration for Information and Communication Technology, Computer Science and Law Streams,
three year duration for Management and Technical Sciences, Logistic Management and Social Sciences Streams :
3.1. The allocation of Officer Cadets for three services will be based on the aggregate marks obtained at the three interviews,
conducted for selection and the availabiliy of vacancies in each service. Officer Cadets will be comissioned in the Regular
Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, after successful completion of the Degree programmes.
3.2 On successful completion of the academic and military training components of the degree programmes, the Officer Cadets
will be awarded Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS), Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in the disciplines of Engineering,
Information and Communication Technology, Computer Science, Management and Technical Sciences, Logistic Management,
Social Sciences or Bachelor of Laws as applicable.
3.3 All degree programmes are conducted in the medium of English.
3.4 Selected candidates will be allowed to follow one of the following Bachelors Degree Programmes.
(a) Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery (MBBS) – Five year course (Male and Female) :
For those who have followed Bio Science Stream (Biology, Chemistry and Physics) at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination
in 2012 and passed three (3) subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(b) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) Engineering in Civil/Mechanical/Mechatronic/Bio-Medical/Electrical and Electronic,
Electronic and Telecommunication/Marine/Aircraft Maintenance and Aeronautical - Four and half year course (Male
only) :
For those who have followed Maths Stream (Chemistry, Physics and Combined Mathematics) at the G . C. E. (A/L)
Examination in 2011 or 2012 and passed three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
407
(c) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in Information and Communication Technology - Four Year Course (Male only) :
For those who have followed any stream at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2011 or 2012 and passed three (03)
subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(d) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) in Computer Science - Four year course (Male only) :
For those who have followed Maths Stream (Chemistry, Physics, Combined Mathematics, Further Maths, Information
and Communication Technology) at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2011 or 2012 and passed three (03) subjects and
are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(e) Bachelor of Law (LLB) – Four year course (Male and Female) :
For those who have passed three (3) of the following subjects at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2011 or 2012 and
are eligible to apply for Univeristy admission (YES).
Accountancy Political Science Agricultural Science
Geography Biology Business Studies
Business Statistics History Physics
Chemistry Economics Logic and Scientific Method
Sinhala/Tamil English (Subject No. 73) Latin
German Japanese Christianity
Pali Sanskrit Buddhist Civilization
Arabic Agro Technology French
Buddhism Chinese Greek and Roman Civilization
Drama and Theater Greek Communication and Media Studies
Hinduism Hindu Civilization Islamic and Islamic Civilization
Mathematics/Combined Mathematics
(f) Bachelor of Science (B. Sc.) – Management and Technical Sciences – Three year course (Male only) :
For those who have followed Bio, Maths or Commerce Streams at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2011 or 2012 and
passed three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(g) Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Logistic Management – Three year course (Male and Female) :
For those who have followed Bio, Maths or Commerce Streams at the G. C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2011 or 2012 and
passed three (03) subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
(h) Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) Social Sciences - Three year course (Male only) :
For those who have followed any stream at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination in 2011 or 2012 and passed three (03)
subjects and are eligible to apply for University admission (YES).
3.5 Selected candidates are required to follow a range of common and special subjects pertaining to respective Degree Programmes,
including English, Management, Law, International Studies and Military subjects.
3.6 They are also required to undergo continuous training in Physical Development, Drill, Weapon Training and Leadership,
during their Degree Programmes.
4. Eligibility requirements.– Candidates should :
(a) be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) be not less than 18 years and not more than 22 years of age on 15.03.2013.
(c) be eligible to apply for University admission and have fulfilled the following requirements :
(i) Pass the Common General Test ;
(ii) Have a minimum of a credit (C) pass for Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages at the G. C. E. (Ordinary Level)
Examination :
(d) Satisfy the following minimum physical standards :
Male Female
Height Army 5'6" 5'3"
Navy 5'6" 5'3"
Air Force 5'6" 5'4"
Weight Army 50kg –
Navy 50kg 41kg
Air Force 17<BMI<25 17<BMI<25
Chest 32" (unexpanded) –

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
408
Note.– (If a candidate possesses outstanding achievements in sports or other relevant activities, the above physical
standards may be relaxed by the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and Urban Development and Chairman of the Board of
Management, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University).
(e) Conform to the required medicial standards.– Successful candidates are required to pass a medical test to the satisfaction
of the Secretary, Ministry of Defence and Urban Development and Chairman of the Board of Management, General Sir
John Kotelawala Defence University.
(f) Be unmarried. (No Cadet Officer will be permitted to marry whilst under training and until permitted to do so by Service
Regulations.)
5. Conditions of Service.– Selected candidates will be enlisted as Officer Cadets of General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
They will be subjected to laws, regulations and orders under the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence Academy Act, No. 68 of 1981 and
subsequent amendments thereto.
6. At the time of enlistment selected candidates will have to enter into a Bond and and Agreement with the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka to serve for a compulsory period as applicable, after being graduated in the respective degree programmes.
7. Officer Cadets will be paid pay and allowance of approximately Rs. 26,000 per month as pay and allowances. In addition, the
following facilities will be provided free of charge:
(i) Board and lodging ;
(ii) Medical facilities ;
(iii) Uniforms ;
(iv) Batman facilities ;
(v) Sports and recreational facilities.
8. On being commissioned to the Regular Forces of the Sri Lanka Army, Navy or Air Force, they will be entitled for pay and
allowances appropriate to the rank in accordance with the Service pay codes.
(a) The following allowances are payable monthly :
(i) qualification allowance ;
(ii) ration allowance ;
(iii) disturbance allowance when ordered to live in (for married officers only) ;
(iv) uniform up keep allowance.
(b) Other facilities and allowances :
(i) accommodation when ordered to live in ;
(ii) rent allowance ;
(iii) uniform allowance ;
(iv) batman allowance ;
(v) one return duty warrant a month from place of work to home station to those who are ordered to "live in".
9. Officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force will be governed by the following regulations in respect of their pay prospects and
conditions of Service :
(i) The Army/Navy/Air Force pay code.
(ii) Current regulations for officers of the Army/Navy/Air Force published in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
(iii) Current Army/Navy/Air Force Pensions and Gratuity Code pubilshed in the Sri Lanka Government Gazette.
10. During the course of training, Officer Cadets are required to undergo such training as may be prescribed by the Vice Chancellor,
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University and or respective Service Commanders.
11. Officer Cadets under training are liable to be posted for training to any part of Sri Lanka or Abroad.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
409
12. Officer Cadets under training will be required to live in, in accommodation provided and follow a routine laid down by the
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University or by the respective Service establishments.
13. Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be required to comply with any rules and regulations already made or that
may hereafter be made for giving effect to the language policy of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
14. Proof of Identity.– Candidates will be required to produce proof as to their identity. Identity cards issued by the Department
of Registration of Persons or Post Master General and Driving License issued by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles will be accepted for this
purpose.
15. Applications.– Application form and the Brochure can be downloaded from the University Website www.kdu.ac.lk.
16. Duly completed applications should accompany a receipt obtained by paying Rs. 1,000 (One Thousand Rupees) to any
Branch of the Bank of Ceylon in favour of "The Vice Chancellor, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University" to be credited to Current
Account Number "9405831" of the Bank of Ceylon, Idama Branch, Moratuwa. The applicantion without basic qualifications and  not duly
filled in accordance with the conditions or the information will be rejected. The application fee will not be refunded.
17. The duly completed applications should be forwarded to "The Registrar, General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University,
Ratmalana" under registered cover to reach him on or before 15th March, 2013. "Application for Cadetships" and the stream applied for,
should be written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope. Applications received after the closing date or do not conform t o the
requirements of this notification will be rejected.
18. Applications from officers in Government Services and Corporations or Statutory Bodies should be forwarded through the
Head of the Department/Corporation/Statutory Bodies and should accompany a certificate to the effect that the Officer would be released
if selected.
19. Applications should be send with certified copies of certificates of Registration of Birth, G . C. E. (O/L), G . C. E. (A/L) result
sheets with a certification for being qualified for Unviersity admission( Yes).
20. Preliminary selection will be made from among those candidates who have achieved the required standards in accordance with
the evaluation criterian determined by the Selection Committee appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala
Defence University. Candidates who are selected from the first interview will be required to undergo tests as may be prescribed by the Board
of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University. The final selection will be made by the Final Selection Committee
appointed by the Board of Management of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
21. Candidates who are selected for interviews and tests will be informed in writing of the venues, times and the dates of such
interviews. Traveling or other expenses for this purpose will not be paid to applicants.
22. Anyone who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving him a testimonial. Any form of canvassing would be a
disqualification.
23. Receipt of Applications will not be acknowledged. No correspondence or inquiries will be entertained with regard to rejected
applications.
GOTABAYA RAJAPAKSA, RWP RSP psc.,
Secretary,
Ministry of Defence and Urban Development and
Chairman of the Board of Management
General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University.
03–181

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
410
SRI  LANKA  REGULAR  AIR  FORCE
Airmen Vacancies
VACANCIES exist Aeronautical Engineering Trades in the Regular Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force for Airmen in the trades are gi ven
below :
(a) Trades and Educational Qualifications Required :–
(a) Air Frame
(b) Aero Engine
(c) Aero Electrical and Instrument
(d) Safety equipment
Passes in 06 subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Examination at not more than two sittings (Additional and optional subjects
not considered) including ordinary passes in Sinhala/Tamil and English Languages. Mathematics and Science. A credit
pass for Mathematics/Science is essential
(b) Other Requirements.– Candidates must fulfill the following general conditions for enlistment in the Sri Lanka Regular Air
Force :–
(1) Nationality : Must be a Citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(2) Age : Not less than 18 years and not more than 23 years as at 20th April, 2013  ;
(3) Height : 5 feet 5 inches and above ;
(4) Weight : 17< BMI < 25
BMI  = 
Weight (kg)  
Height2 (m)
(5) Vision Colour : Standard : CP 2
(6) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (without spectacles)
(7) Civil Status : Candidates must be unmarried. (Airmen is not allowed to marry until the completion of two years
from the date of enlistment and until one year after the completion of the Basic Trade Training
Course and which ever is later).
2. Candidates who do not possess the required educational qualifications or fulfil the requirements of paragraph 1 "a" and "b"
will be rejected. On arrival for the first interview the height, weight and vsion will be measured. Candidates whose height, we ight and
vision is below the standard specified in the Gazette Notification and who have not exceptional skills will not be interviewed. Any
candidate who may have a special skill or value to the service may at the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be cnsidered even
though he may not have the requisite height provided he possess the requisite academic and professional qualifications.
3. Due consideration will be given to outstanding achievements in the field of sports.
4. Conditions of Service :–
(a) Airmen will be governed by the Air Force Act and other Air Force Regulations and Orders with effect from the date of
enlistment.
(b) Selected candidates will be trained in combat and in the selected trades accordingly. They will be erquired to perform
combat duties and any type of duty and night, even under very difficult conditions in any part of Sri Lanka or abroad.
5. Terms of Engagement.– Selected candidates will be enlisted to the third class of the rank of Aircraftsman in the Regular Air
Force and shall be required to serve for 12 years in which 08 years will have to be served continuously whilst serving a furthe r 04 years
in the Regular Air Force (Reserve) when called to do so. Opportunities exist for suitable Airmen to extend for further service on
completion of eight years of service on the discretion of Commander of the Sri Lanka Air Force.
6. Official Language Requirements.– The selected candidates must confirm to the Official Language Policy of the Government
of Sri Lanka.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
411
8. Pay and Allowances:-
(a) The scale of consolidated pay applicable to Airmen shall be as follows :–
Aircraftman - R. 173,100 - 6 Rs. 1,740 - 19x Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Leading Aircraftman - Rs. 178,320 - 4x Rs. 1,740 - 19x Rs. 2,040 - Rs. 222,300 per annum
Corporal - Rs. 183,540 -10x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880 - Rs. 229,860 Per annum
Sergeant Rs. 187,620 - 3 x Rs. 2,040 - 9 x Rs. 2,880 - 3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Flight Sergeant - Rs. 191,700 - 1x Rs. 2,040 - 9x Rs. 2,880 - 3 x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 231,180 per annum
Warrant Officer - Rs. 199,500 - 7x Rs. 2,880 - 14x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 273,420 per annum
Master Warrant Officer - Rs. 223,500 - 13x Rs. 3,840 - Rs. 273,420 per annum.
Pay and allowances will be paid according to the consolidated pay scale applicable to airmen increments in promotions
will be based in consideration to the service period, good conduct and trade efficiency and will be placed in the
appropriate pay scale.
(b) Other Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance of Rs. 6,600 per month.
(2) Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(3) Additional hard allowance - Rs. 3,900 per month for those serving in operational areas.
(4) Special allowance - 1- Rs. 2,400 per month (Rs. 80 will be paid for each working day).
(5) Special allowance - II 15% of consolidated salary.
(6) Incentive allowances - After completion of 05 years service (Rs. 250 to Rs. 850 per month).
(7) Ration allowance - Rs. 12,235.20 per month for living out Airmen (free messing for living-in Airmen).
(8) Accommodation - Free for personnel living-in.
(9) Travelling - Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for Airmen/Wife and Children as applicable). One set
of railway warrants per month or the reimbursement of bus fare of living-in Airmen).
(10) Disturbance allowance - When proceeding on duty outside permanent station. (Rates vary with married/unmarried).
(11) Qualification pay - For personnel who have qualified in special courses or possess qualifications, which are of
special vlaue to the service. (Up to maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(12) Good conduct badge pay - Paid to personnel whose behaviour and general conduct are maintained at a high standard.
(Rs. 30 to Rs. 204 per month).
(13) Uniform upkeep allowances Rs. 170 per month.
(14) Re-engagement pay - Personnel are entitled to Rs. 300 per month during the period of re-engagement.
(15) Medical facilities - Provided through Air Force expense for Airmen and their married families.
(16) Free travel from residence to place of work in S. L. T. B. buses for living out Airmen within a radius of 30 miles
(48km).
(17) Following rent allowance are payable to married Airmen not in occupation of Government married quarters
Rs. 1,200 - Rs. 3,300 per month.
(18) Instructional pay - (Rs. 425 to Rs. 510 per month).
(19) Other allowance - (separation and overseas etc.) will be paid as per Air Force Pay Code.
(20) Pensions/Gratuities are payable in terms of the Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981, as amended from time
to time. All Airmen is contributors to the Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Armed Froces) Scheme. Rate of
contributions are as per Widows' and Orphans' Pensions (Aremd Forces) Scheme Regulations 1970).
8. Instructions to Applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form specified below. All cages of the application should be filled
with much details as possible.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Departments/Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should bear a
certificate to the effect that the candidate will be released if selected.
(c) Candidates will be required to produce the originals of the following documents when summoned for interviews or
when called upon to do so:-
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth (Certificate issued for the purpose of the Education Code will not be
accepted).
(2) Certificates in support of the educational qualifications required.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
412
(3) Certificates of Trade/Technical training and/or experience (if any) obtained from a recognized institution will be
an added advantage.
(4) Two recent certificates of character. One of these should be from the Principal of the last school attended and the
other from a responsible person who has the know of the applicant for more than two years or from the present
employer (if employed).
(5) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadeting etc.
9. Interviews will be held at Sri Lanka Air Force, 06, 07 and 08 March, 2013 from 0900 hrs. to 1300 hrs. Candidates considered
suitable for the interview will be required to appear for an interview at their own expense before an Air Force Recruiting Boar d.
10. On every occasion an applicant is summoned for interviews, he is to produce the National Identity Card. Candidates who
do not have the National Identity Card could produce some other form of the accepted identification. However, no candidates wil l be
enlisted with out the National Identity Card.
11. Candidates likely to be suitable following their interviews will be required to present themselves before an Air Force
Medical Board. The required number of candidates per trade will be selected according to merit order.
12. Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should do so by giving his testimonial. Any form of canvassing or attempt
to influence the selection of a candidate will result in disqulaification of such candidates.
13. Any statement in the application which is found to be incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and for dismissal if discovered after selection.
14. Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P.O. Box 594,
Colombo 02.
APPLICATION  FOR  AIRMEN IN THE
SRI  LANKA  AIR FORCE
1. Full Name :––––––––––––.
(According to National Identity Card)
2. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––––.
3. Applied Trade :–––––––––––––.
4. Postal address :–––––––––––––.
5. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
6. Nearest Police Station to Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
7. District :–––––––––––.
8. Electorate :–––––––––––––.
9. G.S. Division :–––––––––––––.
10. Telephone Number :–––––––––––––.
11. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
12. Married or Single :–––––––––––––.
13. Gender :–––––––––––––.
14. Height : Feet :––––––––––. Inches :–––––––––.
15. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
16. G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
Year Index No. Subjects Passed Grading
17. Any special qualifications for the post :––––––––––––.
(Eg.– Technical, Training and Experience etc.)
18. Details of special achievements in sports :–––––––––––.
19. Other achievements of note at school or with outside
organizations :–––––––––––.
20. If previously applied for the Armed Forces of Police give
details :–––––––––––.
21. Have you been convicted or bound over by a Civil or Military
Court ? If so, give details :–––––––––––.
22. Particulars of Testimonials :
Name Description Permanent Address

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
413
23. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that the answers given to the above
questions are to the best of my knowledge and belief are correct. I
have read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and
the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected as Airwomen in the Sri Lanka Regular Air Force pubilshed
in the Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
03–213
–––––––––––––––––
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer Vacancies
VACANCIES exist for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in the
Regular/Volunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :–
(a) Ligistics Branch ;
(b) Air Field Construction Branch ;
(c) Dental Branch ;
(d) Administrative Band Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing the
professional qualifications given below :
(a) Logistics Branch :
Mess Managers - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flying Officer : Higher Diploma in Hotel Management
or completion of all 4 levels of full time basic courses
and completion of intermediate and Advance Level in
hospitality industry training, from a recognized Local/
Foreign Institute with minimum of 2 years post
qualification experience in Star Class Hotels in Food
and Beverages Departments in executive capacity.
(b) Air Field Construction Branch :
Material Engineering Officers for Asphalt Plant -
Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : BSc in Engineering Specialized in
Civil or Material Engineering with one (1) year post
qualification experience in an Asphalt Plant and having
ability to handle all quality assurance practices related
to the asphalt productions. The candidates should have
thorough knowledge in design of Asphalt mixes and
testing of related material and capability to administrate
multiple site laboratories ; or
BSc Specialized in Material Science with two (2) years
post qualification experience in an Asphalt Plant and
having ability to handle all quality assurance practices
related to the asphalt productions. The candidates
should have thorough knowledge in design of Asphalt
mixes and testing of related material and capability to
administrate multiple site laboratories.
* Flying Officer : NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil Engineering
and post qualification experience in Asphalt Plant for
three (3) years.
Building Service Engineering Officers - Male
(Regular/Volunteer)
* Temporary Squadron Leader : BSc in Engineering
Specialized in Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering
with MSc in Building Service Engineering with two (2)
years post qulaification experience in designing/
developing/Managing new technologies related to
building services including air conditioning, water
supply, sanitation, public health, fire protection, lift
and escalators.
Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering Officers
- Male (Regular)
* Flight Lieutenant : BSc in Engineering Specialized in
Civil/Mechanical/Electrical Engineering or equivalent
qualification.
* Flying Officer  : NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil/
Mechanical/Electrical Engineering or equivalent
qualification with three (3) years post qualification
experience.
* Pilot Officer : NDT/NDES/HNDE in Civil/Mechanical/
Electrical Engineering or equivalent qualification with
less than three (3) years post qualification experience.
Architects - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
* Temporary Squadron Leader  : Charted Architect
Qualification.
* Flight Lieutenant : MSc Arch or B Arch Degree in
University of Moratuwa or equivalent.
Quantity Surveyors - Male/Female (Regular/
Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : BSc in Quantity Surveying conducted
by the University of Moratuwa or Graduate member
of the Institute of Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka
with two (2) years post qualification experience or
Technical member of the Institute of Quantity
Surveyors in Sri Lanka with three (3) years post
qualification experience in the relevant field.

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
414
* Flying Officer : Technical member of the Institute of
Quantity Surveyors in Sri Lanka or Successful
completion of National Diploma in Quantity Surveying
conducted by UNIVOTEC Ratmalana with two (2)
years post qualification experience.
Surveyors - Male (Regular/Volunteer)
* Flight Lieutenant : BSc in Surveying Science from
University of Sabaragamuwa or Bachelor Degree from
ISM Diyathalawa.
* Flying Officer  : Diploma in survey from ISM
Diyathalawa.
(c) Dental Branch :
Dental Officers - Male/Female (Regular/Volunteer)
Flight Lieutenant  : BDS or equivalent with full
registration with the Sri Lanka Medical Council.
Pre-Intern Trainees - Male/Female (Volunteer)
* BDS of Dental Degree equivalent to BDS (Sri Lanka) from
any recognized University of a foreign country, which is
accepted by SLMC. They will be enlisted as Volunteer
Commissioned Officer for a period of 5 years and should
qualify the ERPM examination and SLMC registration
within 5 years from the date of enlistment. The service of
the Pre-Intern trainees who fail to qualify the above
examination will be terminated.
* Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank of
Flying Officer. After completion of ERPM examination
and with SLMC registration they will be considered for
the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
Dental Students - Male/Female (Regular)
Pilot Officer : Completed 2nd BDS and beginning of 3rd
year.
Flying Officer : Completed final BDS Part I and studying
in the final year.
Note :
* Selected Dental Student candidates will be required to
serve an obligatory period of 10 years from the date of
Commission to the rank of Flight Lieutenant.
* Selected students will be released from the Sri Lanka Air
Force until completion of final year. They will also be
commissioned in the rank of Flight Lieutenant on
completion of BDS Degree and full registration with the
SLMC.
* Opportunities will be granted for Post Graduate studies
depending on the exigencies of the service.
* Dental students to submit a certificate from their respective
Universities about their year of studies.
(d) Administrative Band Branch :
Band Master Dance Troupe - Female (Volunteer)
* Pilot Officer : A minimum of six passes at the G. C. E.
(O/L) Examination with four credits including credit in
English language and an Ordinary pass in Sinhala/Tamil
language in one sitting ; and
* Degree in Fine Arts from the Institute of Aesthetic
education (Dance) in Sri Lanka or passed final level (Dance)
in National Dance and Music Examination of Sri Lanka ;
* Ability to train on traditional and foreign dance style with
be considered as a special qualification ;
* A credit pass in Dancing at the G . C. E. (O/L) examination
will be an added qualification.
3. Other Entry Requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried
(c) Gender : Male/Female (As applicable)
(d) Age : As at 15th April, 2013
(1) For Air Field Construction and
Dental (Dental Officers pre-Intern
Trainees) Branch Candidates : 18 to 35 years
(2) For Logistics and Dental
Branch (Dental Student) Candidates : 18 to 30 years
(3) For Administrative Band Branch : 18 to 36 years
Candidates
(e) Height : Male - 5' 5" and above
: Female - 5' 4" and above
(f) Weight : Body Mass Index should according
to the Physical Efficiency Test
Standards of the Sri Lanka Air Force
(g) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(h) Colour Vision : CP2
Standard
(i) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6 (With
or without spectacles)
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
415
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.- Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the language policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
Volunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Pilot
Officer, Flying Officer, Flight Lieutenant or Squadron Leader as
applicable in keeping with their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, “Every officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the president’s pleasure”.
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of section 11 of the Air Force Act
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single officer is required to live in  the Officers Mess. He/
She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single officer’s ration allowance and
batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married officers not in occupation of married quarters will be entitled
to a rental allowance as stated in para 15( d)(17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for commissioned officers shall be as
follows :–
Pilot Officer – Rs. 242,700 p. a.
Flying Officer – Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Flight Lieutenant – Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 =
Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader – Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 = Rs. 538,380
p. a.
Wing Commander – Rs. 362,100 – 20 x 9,480 =
Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain – Rs. 441,060 – 18 x 12,600 =
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable to Dental Officers :
Dental - Rs. 306,180 -3x 7,740 - Rs. 329,400 p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140 - 8 x 7,800 - Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 15 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 -12x 15,720 - Rs. 697,320
p. a.
(c) Other allowances applicable to Dental Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances
Dental - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I – Rs. 3,400 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non pensionable allowances :
Dental - Rs 2,125 per month
Grade II – Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances - Rs. 20,000 per month
(4) Extra duty payments
Dental - Rs. 300 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 325 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 370 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 450 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d) are
to be calculated separately as applicable.
(d) Service Allowances :
1. Cost of living allowance Rs. 6,600 per month.
2. Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after five
years of service.
3. Hardlying allowance Rs. 600 per month.
4. Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for those
serving in operational areas.
5. Special hard allowance Rs. 3,000 per month (Rs. 100
will be paid for each working day).
6. Interim allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
7. Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
416
8. Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month (if permitted
to live out).
9. Ration allowance Rs. 13,861.50 per month (if
permitted to live out).
10. Qualification pay where applicable (upto a maximum
of Rs. 637.50 per month).
11. Sepcial allowance 15% of consolidated salary.
12. Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year (for
officer, spouse and children).
13. An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in Messes
to travel from the Mess to the hometown once a month.
14. Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
15. Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
16. Married officers permitted to live out are entitled to a
free bus pass to travel from residence to place of work
within 30 miles radius.
17. Rent allowance for married officers not in occupation
of a government married quarter. Pilot Officer to Group
Captain and above Rs. 1,600 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
18. Service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Dental Branch Officers
in consideration to the number of complete years of
service)
19. Additional service allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Dental Branch Officers only).
20. 1/20 allowance - Con pay x 1/20 x 3 days (Maximum)
per month (applicable to service Dental Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities .- Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Command
Recruiting Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda”
so as to reach him not later than 1200 noon on 08th
March, 2013 under registered cover. The envelope
enclosing the application should be marked  “Application
for Commission in the ........... Branch” Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with
the requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
1. Certificate of Registration of birth ;
2. Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
3. Certificates of character from at least two
responsible persons who are personally acquainted
with the applicant ;
4. Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
5. Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
*Note.- Originals of these certificates should be produced only
if and when the applicant is called for the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The final
selection will then be made after an interview appointed
by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews, No
travelling or other expenses will be paid in this respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment will
not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P . O. Box 594,
Colombo.

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
417
APPLICATION FOR COMMISSION IN THE SRI LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER AIR FORCE
IN THE ................ BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration
and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full name (As per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National  Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal address :–––––––––––.
9. E-mail address :––––––––––.
10. Date of birth :–––––––––––.
11. Height :–––––'––––––".
12. District :–––––––––––.
13. Electorate :–––––––––––.
14. Grama Seva Division and Number :–––––––––––.
15. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
16. Civil status :–––––––––––.
17. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of School/ Type of Year of Subjects passed
University examination examination (including
grading)
Ordinary Level
Advanced Level
Professional
Qualifications
Other
18. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University (if
applicable ) :
Name and address Nature of Period of Service
of employer employment From  To
19. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of birth Occupation Present
address
Father
Mother
20. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
21. Details of current achievement in sports. (Give details of teams
and competitions participated with dates/years etc. and
standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
22. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
–––––––––––.
23. Any previous service in the Armed Force or Volunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
24. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or any
of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
25. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
26. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.,) reasons for termination of
employment :–––––––––––.
27. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
28. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I, declare on my honour that answers given to the above
questions are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and
belief. I have read and understood the procedure which will be
adopted and the rules which will apply in respect of those candidates
who are selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published
in the Gazette of the Repubilc of Sri Lanka.
––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–212

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
418
EFFICIENCY   BAR   EXAMINATION   AND   SECOND   LANGUAGE   TEST   FOR   OFFICERS   IN
SRI   LANKA   ADMINISTRATIVE   SERVICE,   SRI   LANKA   ENGINEERING   SERVICE,   SRI   LANKA   SCIENTIFIC
SERVICE   AND   SRI   LANKA   ARCHITECTS’   SERVICE  –  2013(I)
IT is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Proficiency Tests for the officers in Sri Lanka Administrative
Service, Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka Architects’ Service will be held in Colombo in during
weekends from 27th April, 2013 to 19th May, 2013, by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, under t he
supervision and direction of Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
02. Efficiency Bar Examinations and Second Language Proficiency Tests which are due to be held in respect of the above services
will be as follows :–
Serial Name of the Examination Code
No.
1. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service A
2. 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service B
3. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service C
4. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Scientific Service D
5. 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Sri Lanka Architects’ Service E
6. Second Language Test (For all relerant services) F
03. Officers may appear separately for each subject and at different occasions at their discretion. However, it is compulsory t o
pass the Efficiency Bar Examinations within the prescribed period.
04. This examination will be conducted by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration and the candidates
will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by him with regard to the same. Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules and regulations.
05. Application should conform to the specimen appended hereto. Applicants should prepare their own applications according to
the specimen. Applications prepared thus should be sent by registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to "Director, Sri
Lanka Institute of Development Administration, No. 28/10, Malalasekera Mawatha, Colombo 07 " to reach him on or before
25th March, 2013. Name of the examination should be clearly indicated on top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application is
forwarded to Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
06. Applications.– Applications should be prepared in a paper of A4 size in such a manner that Paragraph Nos. 1.0 to 4.0 appear
on the first page No. 5.0 appear on the second page and the remaining on the other pages. The application could be typewritten but it should
be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate’s own handwriting. Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended  and
candidates are advised not to send photocopies of the application.
6.1 Applications that do not comply with the specimen and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the Title of the Examination appearing in the specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala
and Tamil application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make sure that the application form perfected by
him/her complies with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it would be advisable to keep a
photocopy of the completed application form.
6.2 Examination Fees.– The candidates appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees.
However, for subsequent sittings, officers should pay Rs. 1,000 for the whole examinaiton or for more than one subject
and further they are required to pay Rs. 500 if they sit for only one subject. The examination fee should be credited to
Account No. 02323278 operated in the name of Director, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration at Bank of
Ceylon, Independence Square Branch and the receipt obtained should be affixed to the application. Under no circumstances,
the fee will be refunded nor transferred in respect of any other examination.
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
419
07.  Director, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration will issue copies of the time table and admission cards to all
candidates whose applications have been received. Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that the candidate
has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination. Candidates should get their signature on the admission card attested in advance and
surrender to the supervisor of the examination hall. Candidates will not be allowed to sit the examination without such admission cards.
08. If the admission card is not received on or before 22nd April, 2013 steps should be taken to notify the Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration in the manner specified in the advertisement. You may take action to obtain the admission card by sending a
letter to Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration along with a certified photocopy of the application form, photocopy  of the
bankd receipt  and receipt of registration. In case of applicants outside Colombo, letter should contain a fax number to which the admission
card should be sent. Further, inquiries made at later occasions by the candidates who fail to forward above documents will not be entertained.
09. Head of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who are issued admissions by the Director of Sri Lanka Institute
of  Development Administration enabling them to sit the examination. Travelling allowances will not be paid.
10. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the supervisor : –
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons ;
(ii) A valid passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
11. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English media. If it is found that a candidate has appeared for the examination
in a language medium that he/she is not entitled to, the candidature of such applicant will be cancelled.
12. Scheme of Examination.– Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination are as follows :–
12.1 1st Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Administrative Service (Appendix "C" of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service Minute published in the Gazette No. 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005).
The subjects of this examination are given below. :
Serial Subjects Durati on Subject
Number Number
01 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law 03 hours 01
02 The Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 03 hours 02
03 Criminal Law and Evidence Law 03 hours 03
04 Administration 03 hours 04
05 Economic 03 hours 05
06 Sociology 03 hours 06
07 English 03 hours 07
12.1.1 Constitutional Law and Administrative Law (Subject No. 01) :
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) The structure of the Constitution of Sri Lanka with historical development and the Second Republic
Constitution.
(ii) The Executive President of the Republic, Cabinet of Ministers and the Prime Minister, Central Government
Departments and the Public Service.
(iii) Administration of Justice.
(iv) Judicial control over Administration.
(v) Directive Principles of the State Policy and Fundamental Duties.
(vi) Delegated Legislation.
(vii) Liability of the State and the Public Authorities.
(viii) Fundamental Rights.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
420
12.1.2 The Legal Systems in Sri Lanka (Subject No. 02) :
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) The Legal History of Sri Lanka.
(ii) The Organization of the Courts.
(iii) The Courts Ordinance (Chapter 6).
(iv) The Administration of Justice Act, No. 44 of 1971.
12.1.3 Criminal Law and Evidence Law (Subject No. 03) :
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) The Penal Code
(ii) The Evidence Ordinance.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain 35% of marks for each of the subjects mentioned under 12.1.1., 12.1.2.
and 12.1.3. above and an average of 40% of the total marks allocated for the 03 subjects.
12.1.4 Administration (Subject No. 04) :
The question paper based on the following :–
(i) Office and Field Organization and Methods.
(ii) Procedural rules published by the Public Service Commission, in the Gazette Extra Ordinary  of the
Government No. 1589/30 dated 20.02.2009 and following Chapters of the Establishment Code (Chapters
VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII and
XLVIII).
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.1.5. Economics (Subject No. 05)/Sociology (Subject No. 06) :
Candidates are required to sit only for one subject out of Economic and Sociology.
12.1.5.1 Economics (Subject No. 05) :
The paper based on the following :–
(i) Principles of Economics with special reference to the theories of Value, Production and Distribution.
(ii) Money, Financial Activity and Theory of Money.
(iii) The Economic Structure of Sri Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.1.5.2. Sociology (Subject No. 06) :
A question paper based on the following (with special reference to Sri Lanka) :
(i) Social Structure, Organization and Functions ;
(ii) Human Relationships and Groupings ;
(iii) Kinship, Marriage and the Family ;
(iv) Rural and Urban Society ;
(v) Social Stratification and Differentiations ;
(vi) Social Control ;
(vii) Culture, Religion, Morals and Values.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.1.6. English (Subject No. 07) :
The syllabus for this subject will be as follows :
(i) Listening and Speaking Skills :
The candidate should possess the ability to function effectively in the following Language functions :
* General greetings and Introductions
* Giving and getting information
* Advising, suggesting and expressing opinions
* Describing events and situations
* Telephone skills
* Interviewing skills
* Meeting
* Listening and Note Taking skills.

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
421
(ii) English Grammar :
A suitable level of proficiency on the following forms of grammar in the Spoken and the Written Language is
expected from the candidate :–
* Tense and Number
* Sentences (Simple/Compound/Complex/Compound Complex)
* Relative Clauses
* Reported Speech
* Adjectives and Adverbs
* Determiners
* Prepositions.
(iii) Writing Skills :
The knowledge on the modern formats and styles of writing is tested in this area of study :
* Internal modes of Communication
* Formal correspondence skills
* Writing Descriptions/Explanations
* Summary Writing skills
* Report Writing skills
* Meeting Minutes/Agendas/Invitations
* Comprehension.
(iv) Reading Skills :
Candidate's ability to comprehend a printed text, infer meaning and verbal/written interpretation is expected :
* Reading and understanding the specific and general meaning of a printed text.
* Reading and Interpretation (verbal/written).
* Understanding the cohesion and coherence of a passage.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.2 The Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of SLAS (Appendix "D" of  SLAS minute published in Gazette
No. 1419/03 dated 14.11.2005)
The Second Efficiency Bar Examination will consist of the following subjects :
Serial Subjects Durati on Subject
Number Number
01 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) 03 hours 08
02 The Process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) 03 hours 09
03 Management and organization 03 hours 10
04 Public Sector Financial Management 03 hours 11
12.2.1 Economics and Social Policy (with special reference to Sri Lanka) : (Subject No. 08) :–
A paper based on the factors which influence the formulation of economic and social policy in Sri Lanka. The
application of the Principles of Economics and Sociology in recent economical, social and political history of Sri
Lanka.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.2.1.2 The process of Development Administration (with special reference to Sri Lanka) (Subject No. 09) :
A paper based on the Institution of Development Administration, their working and their inter-relationships
with special reference to :
(i) The Machinery of Government of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) The constitutional background of the machinery of Government in Sri Lanka ;

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
422
(iii) Provincial Councils and Local Government ;
(iv) People's Organizations ;
(v) Public Corporations.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.2.2 Management and Organization (Subject No. 10) :
A paper based on the following :
(i) The principles of management and organization ;
(ii) The application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector ;
(iii) Modern tools and techniques of management.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.2.3 Public Sector Financial Management (Subject No. 11)
A question paper based on the following :
(i) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka
Constitutional Provisions relating to Public Financial Management
Parliamentary Control over Public Finance
Meaning of Fund
Consolidated Fund and its operation
Meaning and methods of appropriation
Contingencies Fund
Other funds and their operation
Government Revenue
Powers and Functions of the Minister of Finance
Powers and Functions of the Treasury
Warrants and Imprest Authority
Auditor General, his powers and functions
Committee on Public Expenditure
Committee on Public Enterprises
(ii) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting Officers and their
Powers and Function.
(iii) Internal Audit.
(iv) Public Expenditure Planning and Management
Identification of Organizational Objectives and Functions
Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and the Work Development programmes
Planning and appraisal of development projects and programmes and prioritization of them
Formulation and finalization of annual estimates of revenue and expenditure.
(v) Variations of approved estimates of expenditure
Application of virement procedure
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries
Total Cost estimates and revisions
Supplementary Estimates
(vi) Losses and waivers of Government Properties
(vii) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters
(viii) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control
(ix) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
423
(x) Government Procurement Procedure
Procurement of goods, services and works
Composition, Appointment, Power and Functions of Tender
Boards and Technical Evaluation Committees
Tender Evaluation Procedure
Management of Donor Funded Projects.
Note.– A candidate will be required to obtain at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.3 First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Sri Lanka Engineering Service, Sri Lanka Scientific Service and Sri Lanka
Architects’ Service.
Subjects of these examinations are as follow :
Subject Dur ation Subject Number
Financial Systems 03 hours 12
Administration 03 hours 04
12.3.1 Financial Systems (Subject No. 12)
A question paper consisting of questions based on following facts :–
(i) Financial Regulations of Government of Sri Lanka - V olume I (Except Chapter X)
(ii) Estimates of the current year. Eg.– Preparations of estimates, votes, financial systems and appropriation acts.
Note.– Candidates are required to secure at least 40% of marks for this subject.
12.3.2 Administration (Subject No. 04)
Syllabus for this subject is indicated in Para. 12.1.4
12.4 Second Language Test (for all relevant services) :
The second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Sinhala Medium shall be Tamil
Language. The Second language in respect of an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in Tamil Medium shall be
Sinhala Language. In the meantime, an officer who becomes eligible to be appointed in English Language is required to
pass in Sinhala and Tamil Language Tests.
These examination consists of two parts as written test and oral test. Only the candidates who pass the written test shall
be called for the oral test corresponding to the relevant subject. Subjects of the written test are as follows :
Subject Duration Su bject Number
Second Language Test - Sinhala 02 hours 13
Second Language Test - Tamil 02 hours 14
Second Language Test - English 02 hours 15
13.  The time table of the examination is as follows :
Serial Name of the Examination Subject Subject Date Time
No. No.
01 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Constitutional Law and Administrative 01 27.04.2013 9.00-12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Law
Administrative Service Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 02 27.04.2013 12.30 - 15.30
Criminal Law and Evidence Law 03 28.04.2013 9.00 - 12.00
Administration 04 28.04.2013 12.30 - 15.30
Economics 05 04.05.2013 9.00 - 12.00
Sociology 06 04.05.2013 9.00 - 12.00
English 07 04.05.2013 12.30 - 15.30

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
424
Serial Name of the Examination Subject Subject Date Time
No. No.
02 2nd Efficiency Bar Examination Economic and Social Policy 08 05.05.2013 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka The process of Development 09 05.05.2013 12.30 - 15.30
Administrative Service Administration
Management and Organization 10 11.05.2013 9.00 - 12.00
Public Sector Financial Management 11 11.05.2013 12.30 - 15.30
03 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Financial Systems 12 05.05.2013 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Administration 04 28.04.2013 12.30 - 15.30
Engineering Service
04 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Financial Systems 12 05.05.2013 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Administration 04 28.04.2013 12.30 - 15.30
Scientific Service
05 1st Efficiency Bar Examination Financial Systems 12 05.05.2013 9.00 - 12.00
for Officers in Sri Lanka Administration 04 28.04.2013 12.30 - 15.30
Architects’ Service
06 Second Language Test (for Sinhala (written) 13 19.05.2013 14.00 - 16.00
all relevant services) Tamil (written) 14 19.05.2013 9.00 - 11.00
English (written) 15 19.05.2013 11.30 - 13.30
14. Exemptions from the requirement of passing the subjects relevant to Efficiency Bar Examinations will be made in the following
manner :–
Examination Subject Qualifications required to be exempted
1st Efficiency Bar Examination Constitutional Law and Administrative Should be a Barrister, Advocate in a Supreme
for Officers in Sri Lanka Law Court, Graduate in Law from a University
Administrative Service Legal Systems of Sri Lanka
Criminal Law and Evidence Law
Economics/Sociology Should be a holder of a Special Degree in
Economics or Sociology
15. Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
P. B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
13th of February, 2013.
Specimen Form of Application
(For office use only)
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION AND SECOND LANGUAGE PROFICIENCY TEST FOR OFFICERS IN SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE, SRI LANKA ENGINEERING SERVICE, SRI LANKA SCIENTIFIC SERVICE AND
SRI LANKA ARCHITECTURAL SERVICE – 2013(I)
1.0 1.1 National Identity Card No. :
1.2 Name at last (In block capitals) :

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
425
1.3 Initials of the name (In block capitals) :
1.4 Name in full (In block capitals) :
1.5 Name in full (In Sinhala/Tamil)  :–––––––––––.
2.0 2.1 Name and address of the office (In block capitals) :
Name
No./road
Postal city
2.2 Address to which the admission card should be sent ( In block capitals) :
Name
No./road
Postal city
2.3 E-mail :
3.0 3.1 Sex :
Female - 1                  Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
4.0 4.1 The service to which the officer belongs : S.L.A.S. -1, S.L.E.S.-2, S.L.S.S.-3, S. L.Arc.S. -4, Other -5, (Indicate in 4. 2)
4.2 ––––––––––––––
4.3 Grade :
4.4 Date of appointment to the service :–––––––––––.
4.5 Post :–––––––––––.
5.0 The examinations and the subjects applied by the officer (If you apply for more than one examination, indicate the details s eparately
in following manner) :
5.1 Medium of examination : Sinhala - 2,  Tamil - 3,  English -4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage. It is not allowed to change this at later occasions)

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
426
5.2 First efficiency bar examination of ....................... name of the examination    Code :   A    C    D    E
(See Para. 3 of the Examination Notification) :
Serial No. Su bject Subject No. Subject applied for
(Indicate X)
1. Constitutional Law and Administrative Law 01
2. Legal Systems of Sri Lanka 02
3. Criminal Law and Evidence Law 03
4. Administration 04
5. Economics 05
6. Sociology 06
7. English 07
8. Financial Systems 12
5.3 First efficiency bar examination of ....................... name of the examination Code :   B
(See Para. 3 of the Examination Notification) :
Serial No. Su bject Subject No. Subject applied for
(Indicate X)
1. Economic and Social Policy (With special focus 08
on Sri Lanka
2. The Process of Development Administration 09
(With special focus on Sri Lanka)
3. Management and Organizational Systems 10
4. Public Sector Financial Management 11
5.4 Name of the Examination :- Second Language test for all services Code :    F
(See Para. 3 of the Examination Notification) :
Serial No. Su bject Subject No. Subject applied for
(Indicate X)
1. Second Language test - Sinhala 13
2. Second Language test - Tamil 14
3. Second Language test - English 15
6.0 Whether you have appeared for this examination as a whole or part thereof. If so, indicate following particulars :
Name of the Examination Su bject Y ear Month

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
427
7.0 7.1 Are you appearing for the examination for the first time ? :–––––––––––.
7.2 If not, indicate following particulars regarding the examination fees :
Amount paid :–––––––––––.
Date of payment :–––––––––––.
Branch of Bank of Ceylon :–––––––––––.
Affix the cash receipt firmly here
S
TATEMENT OF THE CANDIDATE
I declare that the above particulars are correct and I am eligible to appear for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. I also certify that the receipt issued on payment of examination fee is affixed herewith. Further I agree to be bound by the rules and
regulations of the examination imposed by Director of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
–––––––––––––,
Date :–––––––––––. Signature of candidate.
CERTIFICATE OF THE HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
I certify that, Mr./Mrs./Miss. .......................... whose particulars are mentioned above, is eligible to sit for the examination in the
language medium indicated in 5.1 above. I hereby certify the signature of the candidate.
––––––––––––,
Signature and Post of Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
03–219
––––––––––––––––––––
FIRST  AND  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR
EXAMINATIONS  FOR  OFFICERS  IN  GRADE  III  OF
THE  SRI  LANKA   ACCOUNTANTS’  SERVICE  - 2013
FIRST and Second efficiency bar examinations for officers in class
III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’  Service will be held in June 2013
in Town 1 Colombo and Town 2 Jaffna by the Commissioner
General of Examinations. A change of the town indicated in the
application to appear for the examination will not be allowed later.
The closing date of applications for the Examination will be
27.03.2013. The Examination will be conducted in Sinhala, Tamil
and English media and no candidate will be permitted to change the
medium later.
02. A specimen application form is given  at the end of this
notification. All applicants are advised to prepare their applications
as per specimen given. Application should be prepared only in A4
size paper and item 01 to 07 should be on page 1 and the rest on
page 2. The form should be completed by the applicant in his/her
own hand writing. Further, Name of the Examination should be
written in English in addition to Sinhala, in Sinhala applications and
in addition to Tamil, in Tamil applications at the top of the
application. Applications which do not conform   with the specimen
application form and those received after the closing date of
applications and incomplete applications will be rejected without
notice. Those who wish to sit for both first and second efficiency
bar examinations should send two separate applications specifying
the examinations. Particulars given in the top of the specimen
application form as the case may be, should be mentioned
accurately. Further, Two receipts obtained by marking payments
for two examinations should be affixed to each application form
separately.
03. All applications should be sent through the Head of the
Respective Department (For e.g. Through Divisional Secretary  in
the case of a Divisional Secretariat ) by registered post to reach the
Commissioner General of Examinations, Organization and Foreign
Examinations Branch, Department of Examinations, Palawatta,
Battaramulla, to reach him on or before 27.03.2013. The name of
the examination should be written on the top left corner of the
envelop containing the application . Retaining a copy of the
application would be useful. Examination will be conducted in
Sinhala, Tamil and English media and no candidate will be permitted
to change the language medium applied for. New officers  for the
purpose of official language policy may prepare their applications
in the official language or in Tamil or English in accordance with the
language medium they were recruited.
04. An admission card together with a copy of the time table of
the examination will be issued by the Commissioner General of
Examination to all applicants whose applications have been
accepted. Immediately after admission cards are dispatched to the

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
428
respective candidates, a press notice to that effect will be published
by the department of examinations, Sri Lanka. If any candidate
does not receive his / her Admission card and time table 2 or 3 days
before the examination, he/ she should notify this in writing
immediately to the Department of Examinations. It would be useful
if you could send a certified photo copy of the application retained
by you together with the receipt for the payment of cash, registration
receipt and your letter of request with a fax number, if living outside
Colombo, to send your Admission Card :
(i) Name of Examination
(ii) Full name of the Applicant
(iii) Complete Address
(iv) Post office at witch the application was posted
(v) Registration  No. and Date.
05. Identify .– Candidates should prove their identity to the
supervisor of the examination every time they appear for a question
paper  in the examination hall. For this purpose one of the following
documents only will be accepted.
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Commissioner for
Registration of Persons.
(ii) A Valid Passport.
The Commissioner General of Examinations reserves the right
to cancel or reject the candidature of the candidate who fails to
produce any of the documents mentioned above.
06. Examination Fees. – Candidates who sit this examination
will be required to pay examination fees as mentioned  below :–
Examination  Fee : Rs. cts.
(a) First sitting- No fee will be charged
(b) For the whole examination for each
subsequent sitting 400 0
(c) Per subject 200 0
The  relevant examination fee could be paid to the credit of
Revenue Head of the Commissioner General of Examination No.
2003.02.13 at any Divisional Secretariat and the receipt obtained
should be securely affixed to the application form at the allotted
place so that it may not get detached. Retaining a copy of the
receipt would be useful. Those who apply for both examinations
should affix two receipts obtained by making payments for both
examinations separately.
07. This examination is conducted by the Commissioner General
of Examinations and  all candidates will be required to abide by the
rules and regulations laid down by him in connection with this
examination and issue of results.   Rules and regulations published
in Part 1 Para  (IIA) of this Gazette for applicants for examinations
are applicable to this examination. On the first day of the
examination, admission card with the applicants authenticated
signature should be handed over to the supervisor of the
examination.
08. Duty leave should be granted by the Head of Departments
to applicants who are eligible to sit for the Examination and to
whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner General
of Examinations to enable them to sit for the examination. Admission
cards will be issued to all the applicants who have submitted their
applications and issuing an admission card to an applicant should
not be considered by him / her as  a qualification to sit for the
examination.
09. Any matters not covered by these regulations will be dealt
with the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning.
10. In the event of any inconsistency between the notice
published in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the notice
published in Sinhala medium shall prevail.
11. Syllabuses related to the first and second efficiency bar
examinations are given below :–
Syllabus of the First Efficiency Bar Examination for
officers in Grade  III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(a)  First Efficiency Bar Examination consists of 4 question
papers of 3 hours on the following subjects :–
1. Government Financial Procedures (Sub No – 01) –
100 marks
2. Law and Management (Sub No – 02) –  100 marks
3. Administration  (Sub No – 03) - 100 marks
4. Report writing and presenting
Information  to Management (Sub No – 04) - 100 marks
(b) The officers should pass the  Examination  within
stipulated period or before as per the provisions of the
service minute and the letter of appointment and they can
sit all the subjects on one occasion or separate occasions if
they so desire.
(c) Applicants should score 40 marks for a pass in each paper
Syllabus:
1. Government Financial Regulations (Sub. No. 01)
Candidates will be tested on the application of Financial
Regulations and Treasury Circulars in government
transactions, financial regulations/procedures as they relate
to revenue, expenditure, foreign aid, annual and
supplementary estimates, public debt, supplies, tenders,
imprests and advances, financial sanctions, the state account,
functional and economic classifications, programme and
performance budgeting, functions of the Minister of Finance,
The General Treasury, the Ministry of Finance and Planning,
The Secretaries, the Auditor  General and the Public
Accounts Committee.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
429
2. Law and Management (Sub No. 02)
Law : Definition of Law
Legal system of Sri Lanka
Judicial system of Sri Lanka
Law of contract
Law of agency
Sale of goods
Hire purchase
Negotiable instruments
Guarantee of securities
Insurance
Management
Introduction to management
Functions and skills of managers
Planning process and setting organizational levels
Organizational structure
Human Resource management
Performance evaluation
Promotion
Motivation
Leadership
                      Communication
Decision making
Conflict resolution
Change Management / Conflicts management / Time
management
Quality cycle and Production and result
Management ethics and responsibilities
3. Administration (Sub No. 03) : Chapters of the
Establishments Code VII,   IX, XI, XII, XV, XXVI, XXVII,
XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, XXXIII, XLVII,
XLVIII
Public Service Commission rules and procedure volume
I- VI
4. Report writing and presenting information to the
Management (Sub No. 04)
Importance of accuracy, of timeliness and perfection of
management information
Dealing with reference information
Periodic and ad-hoc reports
Writing minutes of meeting and notes
Structure of management reports
Important results that should be highlighted
Interpretation of results
Suggesting variations
Use of statistical name system in data analysis
Comparison of performance
Use of ratios and percentages in management reports
Diagrammatic representation
Listening to professional talks and lectures
Reporting lectures through speech
Panel discussions
Seminar abilities
Delivering a speech
Syllabus of the Second Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers of the Sri Lanka Accountants’ Service
(a) The second efficiency bar examination consists of the
following subjects :–
(1) Management Accountancy  (Sub No 05) - 100 marks
(2) Public Financial Management  (Sub No 06)  - 100
marks
  (3) Management and Organization (Sub No 07)  - 100
marks
(b) The officers should pass the  Examination  within stipulated
period or before as per the provisions of the service minute
and the letter of appointment and they can sit all the subjects
on one occasion or separate occasions if they so desire.
(c) Applicants  are required to obtain 40% of marks for
each paper.
Syllabus:
1. Management Accountancy (Sub. No. - 05) – 3 hours paper
Answering all the questions is compulsory. (Applicants
are not allowed to select questions)
Control theory on accounting – feed back – open and
closed, Primary and applied primes, Types of ideal standard
costs, principles of performance standards and their
application, revision of standards, learning cycle and
determination of motivation, analysis of variations and
sub variations, analysis of significance, presentation
behavioral aspects of control accounting, concepts of
budgeting, administration of budgetary control, the budget
manual, fixed and flexible budgets, master and
supplementary budgets, budget centres, management
participation, intervention and motivation in the
preparation of budgets, the budget period and identification
of the principle budget factor.
2. Public Finance Management –  (Sub. No. 06) - 03 hours
paper
Answering all the questions is compulsory.
            (Applicants are not allowed to select questions)
            Role of the Government Accountant.
The Constitutional and Legal Framework of Public Finance,
Establishment     Framework, Central Government, State
Coperations, Local Government Institutions, Cooperative
Movement etc..

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
430
Governance of the Parliament, Duties of the General
Treasury, The issues related to the control exercised by
the Ministry of Finance & Planning, Estimate Committee,
Auditor General, State Finance Committee, Consolidated
Fund and the Parliament.
Financial cycle, Compilation of Planning Programmes,
Compilation of Budgetary Documents, Approval of Funds,
Accounting Activities, Reporting, Evaluation and Auditing.
Project Appraisal, Utilisation of Service Quotations and
Statistical  Data Determination of the theory of Payment
and Expected value.  Cost Benefit Analysis, Discounted
Cash Flows, Internal Rate of Return, Feasibility of
Projects, Economics, Financial and Management Aspects
of Project  Compilation and Appraisal, Successful
Submission of Projects.
Techniques of compiling programmes, Use of Network
Analysing Methods,
Allocation of Resources, Issues Related to Transportation,
Replacement of assets in lieu of the assets which are worn
out as a result of use or with the time and the assets which
do not thus wear out but become dormant with the time or
after being used for a certain period of time, Performance
Budget, Establishment and Utilisation of Fundamental
Methods, Evaluation of Performance, Determination of
Criteria, Units and Norms, Analysis of Criteria and
Performance.
Programme Budget, Programme Structure, Classification
according to Functions, Programme activities, Expenditure
Projects, Expenditure codes, Economic and Functional
Classification.
Financial control Systems, level of Responsibilities,
Internal Control and Financial Regulations. Internal
Auditing, Efficiency Auditing, Management Auditing,
Variable Analysis, Decision of compiling capital Budget.
Long term Planning and its importance, Forecasting,
Accuracy and Limitations, Risk Analysis, Decision trees,
Probability Factors.
Demand on Capital, Issues Related to Capital Efficiency
and Income estimation, Consideration of risk Factors in
Evaluation of Project Priorities, Payback Determinants,
Calculating Rate or Return, Net Present Value and DCF
Yields,    Impact of Taxation. Investment Appraisal, Project
Cost Control  and Post Audit.
Decision on Capacities, Product Mix, Production or
Purchase, Alternative  Methods of Manufacture, Issues
related to closing of Factories, Pricing Policies and Theory
of Contribution, Impact of Customer Demand, Demand
Flexibility, Marketing Strategy, Techniques of Performance
Evaluation, Determinants and Ratios of Profitability.
Cost Benefit Analysis, Management of Working Capital.
Finance Control of Government Commercial Enterprises,
Budgeting, Management Reporting, Interpretation of
Financial Statement and the use of Financial Ratios.
Pricing in Public Enterprises.
Accounting plan and its contents, Government  Reports
and Public Enterprises.
3. Management and Organization – (Sub. No. 07) 03 hour
paper
Answering all the questions is compulsory. (Applicants
are not allowed to  select questions)
Questions will be set to test the Candidate’s knowledge
on management and principles of organization, use of these
principles with regard to the problems and issues and
problems in the Public Sector and the knowledge on new
management strategies and techniques.
P. B. J
AY ASUNDERA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Ministry of Finance and Planning,
Colombo 01,
01st  day of March, 2013.
    (For office use)
Model  Application  Form
FIRST AND  SECOND  EFFICIENCY  BAR EXAMINATION
FOR  OFFICERS IN GRADE III OF THE SRI  LANKA
ACCOUNTANTS’ SERVICE– 2013
Should be forwarded to the Commissioner General of
Examinations through the Head of the Department by  registered
post.
Town Town No.
* Town applied to sit for the Examination
    and its Number
(Write the name of the Town in Block letters according to the
para  01  of the Gazette)
* Medium of the Examination Applied Sinhalese -  2
(Medium applied will not   be T amil -  3
allowed to change   subsequently) English -  4
(Put the relevant number in the cage)

<!-- page 31 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
431
* The Efficiency Bar Examination Applied :
      First - 1
      Second - 2
(Put  the relevant  number in the cage )
(Refer the para 2 of the Gazette . Applications should be
submitted separately for the two  examinations.)
1. Name :
1.1 Name with initials at the End :–––––––––––.
(In English Block Letters e.g. SUNIL, A.B)
1.2 Full Name :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
   1.3 National Identity Card  No.  :
2. Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In English Block letters)
2.1 Official Address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.2 Address to which the Admission Cards should be sent :
––––––––––.
  (In English Block letters)
3. 3.1 Sex:
Male      - 0
Female   - 1
(Put the relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of Birth -:
Year :                         Month :               Date :
3.3 Age as at the closing date of applications -:
Y ears :                        Months :                 Days :
4.  Subjects offered under the Para 10 of the Gazette (only  4 (i) or
4 (ii) relevant to the Efficiency Bar Examination Applied should
be completed in one application form)
4 (i) First Efficiency Bar :
Subject Subject No.
………………………………….
 …………………………………
…………………………………
 ..………………………………..
4 (ii) Second Efficiency Bar :
Subject Subject No.
……………………………..
……………………………..
      ………………………………
5. Date of Appointment to Grade III of the Sri Lanka Accountants’
Service:–––––––––––.
(Date of assuming duties permanently should be mentioned)
6. Name of the work place :- (if it is a Divisional Secretariat,
Name of the said office) :––––––––––.
7.   Whether you are sitting for the examination for the first time :
–––––––––––.
8. If not, examination fees paid:
(i) Office, paid :––––––––––.
(ii) Receipt Number :––––––––––.
(iii) Date :––––––––––.
     Affix the receipt securely.
(Keep a photocopy of the receipt with candidate)
9. I declare that the foregoing particulars are true and correct and
that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language
medium indicated above. Further, I agree to abide by the
decisions taken by the Commissioner General of Examinations
regarding the examination.
–––––––––––––––,
Applicants Signature.
Date :––––––––––.
Note.– The applicant must sign before his/her Head of the
Department, or officer authorized to sign on his / her behalf
or his / her Provincial Head.
Attestation of Signature
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ..................... who is an
officer working in my office  is known to me personally placed his/
her signature before me on ………………………
–––––––––––,
 Signature of the Attester.
Name :––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
Certificate of the Head of the Department
 I Certify that,
(i) The foregoing particulars were checked  and found  correct
and,
(ii) The applicant is eligible to sit for this examination.
––––––––––––––,
 Signature of the Head of the Department.
(Official frank should be placed)
Designation :––––––––––.
Date :––––––––––.
03–63

<!-- page 32 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
432
RECTIFICATION
OPEN  COMPETITIVE  EXAMINATION  FOR  RECRUITMENT  TO  GRADE  II  CLASS  II  OF
SRI  LANKA  SCIENTIFIC  SERVICE – 2013
THE age limit mentioned in II(V) of Page 42 of the notification pubilshed with the above heading under the Section exams, exam results in
Section 1:(IIA) of Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of No. 1,793 dated Friday 11th of January 2013 shall remain
unchanged and the following paragraphs are hereby included instead of "The maximum age limit shall not be applied for the inter nal
candidates who are qualified to apply for the relevant post as stated in the notification" mentioned within brackets.
Note :
(i) The maximum age limit shall not be applicable for the officers who are serving in Public Service at present to apply for
the posts of Assistant Director, Department of National Zoological Gardens/Analyst of Questioned Documents,
Department of Government Analyst/Assistant Soil Chemist, Department of Irrigation/Assistant Director, Department
of Export Agriculture/Assistant Conservator of Forests, Department of Forest Conservation/Assistant Director
(Zoology). Department of National Museums. Further, at the Instances where the candidates who apply for the above
post of the Department of National Museum is an ex-serviceman of the army, it is allowed to reduce the premanent
service in army from actual age for the purpose of obtaining qualifications for the maximum age limit.
(ii) The maximum age limit shall not be applicable for the officers who are serving in Public Service/Provincial Public Service
at present to apply for the posts of Research Officer (Professional Health). Department of Labour/Research Officer,
Department of Export Agriculture/Bio Chemistry, Physiologist, Pharmaceutical Analyst, Regional Anti Malaria Officer,
Chemist, Scientific Officer of Department of Health.
On the order of Public Service Commission,
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
03–184

<!-- page 33 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
433
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01, 2013
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent direct by post together with full payments to the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent direct by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 00
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137 00
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300 00
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600 00
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette  of the first week of every month.
13. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
14. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri L anka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 00 9,340 00
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 00 950 00
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 00 750 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 00 2,500 00
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 00 450 00
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 00 275 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 00 4,360 00
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 00 3,640 00
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessor)           ... ... ... 780 00 1,250 00
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 00 5,520 00
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 00 60 00
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 00 60 00
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 00 60 00
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 00 120 00
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 00 60 00
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 00 60 00
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 00 60 00
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 00 60 00
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 34 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'03'01
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 01.03.2013
434
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2013
MARCH 01.03.2013 Friday — 15.02.2013 Friday 12 noon
08.03.2013 Friday –– 22.02.2013 Friday 12 noon
15.03.2013 Friday –– 01.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
22.03.2013 Friday –– 08.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
28.03.2013 Thursday –– 15.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
APRIL 05.04.2013 Friday — 22.03.2013 Friday 12 noon
12.04.2013 Friday –– 28.03.2013 Thursday 12 noon
19.04.2013 Friday –– 05.04.2013 Friday 12 noon
26.04.2013 Friday –– 12.04.2013 Friday 12 noon
MAY 03.05.2013 Friday — 19.04.2013 Friday 12 noon
10.05.2013 Friday –– 26.04.2013 Friday 12 noon
17.05.2013 Friday –– 03.05.2013 Friday 12 noon
23.05.2013 Thursday –– 10.05.2013 Friday 12 noon
31.05.2013 Friday –– 17.05.2013 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January , 2013.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.