

<!-- page 1 -->

Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs.4.50
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  01
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
ADMINISTRATIVE  APPEALS  TRIBUNAL
ACT,   No.  4  OF  2002
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 27, 2002
[Certified on  25th March, 2002]
Printed on the Order of Government


<!-- page 2 -->

Administrative Appeals Tribunal
Act, No. 4 of 2002
1
[Certified on 25th March, 2002]
L.D. — O. 4/2002.
A
N  ACT  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  THE  CONSTITUTION  OF  AN  ADMINISTRA TIVE
A PPEALS  TRIBUNAL ; TO  SPECIFY  THE  POWERS  OF  SUCH  TRIBUNAL
AND  THE  PROCEDURE  TO  BE  ADHERED  TO  BY  SUCH  TRIBUNAL  IN
RESPECT  OF  APPEALS  AND  TO  PROVIDE  FOR  MA TTERS  CONNECTED
THEREWITH  OR  INCIDENTAL  THERETO
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the  Administrative Appeals
Tribunal  Act, No. 4 of 2002.
2. (1) The Administrative Appeals Tribunal established
under paragraph (1) of Article 59 of the Constitution,
(hereinafter referred to as the “Tribunal”) shall consist of three
members appointed by the Judicial Service Commission, from
among persons who have had over twenty years of experience
as a public officer or ten years of experience in the legal
profession, one of whom shall be appointed it’s Chairman.
(2) The terms of office of the members of the Tribunal,
including it’s  Chairman, shall be three years.
3. The Tribunal shall have the power to hear and
determine any appeal preferred to it from any order or decision
made by—
(a) the Public Servie Commision in the exercise of its
powers under Chapter IX of the Constitution;
(b) the National Police Commission in the exercise of  its
powers under Chapter XVIIIA of the Constitution.
4. (1) Any public officer or police officer as the case may
be, aggrieved by an order or decision made by the Public
Service Commission or the National Police Commission, as
Procedure for
preferring an
appeal.
Powers of the
Tribunal.
Constitution of the
Administrative
Appeals Tribunal.
Short title.
2 — H 13388— 5,550 (2002/02)

<!-- page 3 -->

Administrative Appeals Tribunal
Act, No. 4 of 2002
2
the case may be, may prefer an appeal in writing to the
Tribunal within four weeks from the date of receipt of such
order or decision.
(2) An appeal preferred to the Tribunal under subsection
(1), shall set out concisely and precisely the grounds on which
the aggrieved public officer or police officer, as the case may
be, seeks to have the order or decision against which such
appeal is being preferred altered, varied or rescinded and shall
be signed by such officer.
5. (1) Upon receipt of an appeal under section 4, the
Tribunal shall notify the Public Service Commission or the
National Police Commission, as the case may be, of such fact,
and shall forthwith forward a copy of such appeal to the
appropriate Commission.
(2) The Public Service Commission or the National Police
Commission, as the case may be, shall thereupon have the
power to place before the Tribunal for its consideration
objections, if any to or against such appeal.
6. The Tribunal may, upon a consideration of the grounds
set out in an appeal preferred to it and on being satisfied that,
there exists a prima facie grievance—
(a) entertain such appeal ;
(b) call for a report from the Public Service Commission
or the National Police Commission, as the case may
be ;
(c) require the Public Service Commission or the National
Police Commission, as the case may be, to produce
any document or other material, which in the opinion
of the Tribunal relates to the grounds set out in the
appeal ;
(d) notify any other public officer or police officer, as the
case may be, of the same category whom the Tribunal
considers likely to have been affected by the order or
decision of the Public Service Commission, or the
Public Service
Commission and
the National
Police
Commission to be
notified.
Tribunal to satisfy
itself of  prima
facie grievance.

<!-- page 4 -->

Administrative Appeals Tribunal
Act, No. 4 of 2002
3
Disposal of
appeals..
Decision of the
Tribunal.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
Officers and
servants of the
Tribunal.
National Police Commission, and require such officer
to produce before the Tribunal any material such
officer may wish to place before the Tribunal in
connection with such appeal, within a period of two
weeks from the date of receipt by him, of such notice.
7.  The Tribunal shall hear and finally dispose of any
appeal preferred to it under this Act, within a period of two
months from the date of receipt of such appeal.
8. (1) The decision of the Tribunal shall be under the hand
of the Chairman and shall be communicated in writing to the
Public Service Commission or to the National Police
Commission, as the case may be, to the public officer or the
police officer who preferred the appeal and to any other public
officer or police officer who was notified by the Tribunal under
paragraph (d) of section 6. The decision of the Tribunal shall,
be the decision of the majority.
(2) A decision made by the Tribunal shall be final and
conclusive and shall not be called in question in any suit or
proceedings in a court of law.
9. (1) The Chairman of the Tribunal may, in consultation
with the Judical Service Commission, appoint such officers
and servants as may be necessary for the exercise of the powers
of the Tribunal.
(2) The removal and exercise of disciplinary control over
the officers and servants appointed under subsection (1), shall
be vested with the Judicial Service Commission.
10. No suit or prosecution shall lie against any member,
officer or servant of the Tribunal for any lawful act done or
omitted to be done in good faith under this Act or which is
done on the directions of the Tribunal.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
No suit or
prosecution to lie
against the
Tribunal.

<!-- page 5 -->

Administrative Appeals Tribunal
Act, No. 4 of 2002
4
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  B UREAU , NO . 32,
TRANSWORKS   HOUSE ,  LOTUS   ROAD ,  COLOMBO  01  before  15th  December  each  year  in   respect
 of the year following.