

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 34]
————————
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00
2-2d
2-
HIZBULLAH FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the Hizbullah Foundation
Presented by  Hon. K. Kader Masthan M. P. for Vanni District
on 02nd December, 2015
(Published in the Gazette on November 09, 2015)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
2–PL 009490—225 (12/2015)

<!-- page 2 -->

1 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
2—PL 009316—300  (10/2015)
Preamble.
Short title.
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE HIZBULLAH FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the “Hizbullah
Foundation” has heretofore been formed at Telecom Road,
Kathankudy in Batticaloa District the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters
connected with the said Foundation according to the rules
agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grant
such application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the “Hizbullah Foundation”
(Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2015.
2. From and after the commencement of this Act, such
and so many persons as now are members of the “Hizbullah
Foundation” (hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or
shall hereafter be admitted as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession,
under the name and style of “Hizbullah Foundation” and by
that name may sue and be sued with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and alter the same at its
pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) to participate in Social, Cultural and Economic
development of the country;
Incorporation
of the
Hizbullah
Foundation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)2
5
10
15
20
25
(b) to give assistance to develop worship places;
(c) to work towards to protect and develop all rights of
women and children;
(d) to assist affected people in disaster situation to uplift
their life style and providing legal assistance for
needy vulnerable people;
(e) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and
cooperation among all communities and people of
Sri Lanka;
(f) to assist needy school children to enable them to
continue their education, to supply school
buildings and to improve the basic facilities;
(g) to take necessary steps to promote artistic creations,
sport skills and technical knowledge of school
leavers and to set up vocational training centers as
well as giving them assistance to peruse studies in
computer science and technology and to establish
institutions to provide such studies;
(h) to assist in the development of educational,
religious, cultural, aesthetic and sports facilities
without any reference to race, religion or caste and
to conduct various festivals and competitions;
(i) to provide medical relief and food for the poor,
destitute and sick persons, establish and maintain
houses to maintain Children homes and day care
centers for children and elders;
(j) to liaise and co-ordinate with other local or foreign
institutions which have similar objects.

<!-- page 4 -->

3 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to
the other provisions of this Act and the rules in force for the
time being of the Corporation be administered by a Board
of Directors consisting of Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer
and another eleven members elected in accordance with such
rules.
(2) The founder member of the Foundation, Honorable
Minister Hizbullah shall be the Chairman of the Board of
Directors for life and thereafter, the Family members of the
person who was holding office as the Chairman shall become
the next Chairman of the Board of Directors.
(3) The first Board of the Corporation shall consist of the
members of the Board of Administration of the Foundation
holding office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
(4) A member of the Board of Directors other than the
Chairman shall unless he vacates his office earlier by death
or resignation, hold office for a period of four years. Where
due to death or resignation a vacancy occurs in the Board of
Directors a new members shall be appointed to fill such
Vacancy and such a new members shall hold office for a
period of four years.
5. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever as are necessary or desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation or any one
of them, including the power to acquire and hold property
movable, to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise moneys with or without security, to erect any building
or structures on any land held by the Corporation and to
engage, employ and dismiss officers and servants required
for the carrying out of the objects of the Corporation.
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)4
5
10
15
20
25
30
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation from time to
time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members present and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistant with the provisions of this Act or any
other written law, for all or any of the following matters:—
(a) the classification of membership and the admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members;
(b) the election of the office bearers, resignation or
vacation of, or removal from office of office-beareres
and their powers, conduct and duties;
(c) the election of the members of the Committee of
Management and its powers, conduct and duties;
(d) the procedure to be observed at, and the summoning
and holding of meetings of the Corporation,
Committee of management or any sub-committee
and of the time, places, notices and agenda, of such
meetings, the quorum therefore and the conduct of
business thereof;
(e) the powers, conduct, duties and functions of the
various officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation , the custody of its funds and the
maintenance and audit of its accounts; and
(g) generally for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation and the accomplishnment of its objects.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) All members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
7. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
debts due to subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
purposes of this Act.
8. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter to be received by way of
gifts, bequest, donation, subscription, contribution, fees or
grants for and on account of the Corporation shall be
deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or more
banks as the Board of Directors shall determine.
(2) There shall be paid out of the fund, all sums of money
required to defray any expenditure  incurred by the
Corporation in the exercise performance and discharge of
its power, duties and functions under this Act.
9. The Corporation  shall be able and capable in law
to acquire and hold any property, movable and immovable
which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
grant, lease, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise,
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation
for the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules in force
for the time being of the Corporation, with full power to
sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of
the same.
10. No member of the Corporation of the Corporation
there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities of the Corporation or for any other purpose, be
liable to make any contribution exceeding the among of
such membership fees as may be due from him to the
Corporation.
11. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all debts and liabilities any
property whatsoever, such property shall not be distributed
among the members of the Corporation, but shall be given
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Limitation of
liabilities of
members.
Property
remaining on
dissolution of
the
Corporation .
35

<!-- page 7 -->

 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)6
or transferred to some other institution or institutions having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which, is or
are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing any
income or property among their members.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of all moneys received and expended, by the Corporation.
(3) The Accounts of the Corporation shall be examined
and audited at least once in every year and the correctness of
income and expenditure account and the balance sheet
certified by a qualified auditor appointed by the Committee
of Management.
(4) In this section“qualified auditor” means-
(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of       Sri Lanka, or of any
other institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant, issued by
the Council of such Institute; or
(b) a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other institute
established  by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant, issued by the Council of such
Institute.
13. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of such
number of persons as may be provided for in the rules in
force for the time being of the Corporation, who shall sign
their names to the instrument in token of their presence and
such  signing shall be independent of the signing  of any
person as a witness.
5
10
15
20
25
30
Accounts and
Audit.
Seal of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 8 -->

7 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
5
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic,
or  corporate, or of any other persons except such as
are mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or
under them.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

<!-- page 9 -->

 Hizbullah Foundation (Incorporation)8
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .