

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2015
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1947$23 - 2015 foieïn¾ ui 30 jeks nodod - 2015'12'30
No. 1947/23  - WEDNESDAY ,  DECEMBER  30,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
CUSTOMS   NOTIFICATION
Customs Ordinance (Chapter  235)
IN Pursuance of the power vested in me by the Section 103 of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) as amended by Act,
13 of 1988, I, Ravi Karunanayake, Minister of Finance, do hereby promulgate these Regulations for advance Passenger
Information Reporting, effective from January 01, 2016.
R
AVI K ARUNANAYAKE,
Minister of Finance.
Ministry of Finance,
Colombo 01,
30th December 2015.
Regulations
1. These regulations may be cited as the Advance Passenger Information Reporting (Electronic) Regulations
No. 2 of 2015 and shall come into operation from 1st of January 2016 (hereinafter after referred to as “the date of
operation”)
2. For the purpose of these regulations the term “operator of an aircraft” shall include Airlines, country
representative or station manager of an Airline.
PART I
Registration of Aircraft Operators
3. Operators of aircrafts who operate flights to and from Airports in Sri Lanka shall register with Sri Lanka
Customs for reporting passenger information electronically. Such operators shall submit the prescribed
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2015
application forms published on Customs Websites for registration to the Information and Communication
Technology Division of Sri Lanka Customs and obtain a registration number and user credentials to access
the customs computer system, in order to submit passenger information electronically.
4. The registration made under regulation 3 of these regulations unless it is suspended, cancelled or revoked by
the Director General of Customs shall remain in force for a period of two years from the date of registration.
5. Operators of Aircrafts who currently hold registration with Sri Lanka Customs, shall renew their registrations
after 2 years of the date of operation of the regulations.
PART 2
Reporting Advance Passenger Information
6. This section applies  to an Aircraft in respect of a voyage to Sri Lanka from an Airport outside Sri Lanka and to
an Aircraft in respect of a voyage from an Airport in Sri Lanka to an Airport outside Sri Lanka.
7. If an Aircraft is due to arrive at tis first Airport in Sri Lanka since it last departed from an Airport outside Sri
Lanka or an Aircraft is due to depart from an Airport in Sri Lanka to an Airport outside Sri Lanka, the operator
of the Aircraft must report to Sri Lanka Customs electronically, particulars of the flight, all crew members
and passengers on board.
The following is, for the purposes of this regulation, the requisite information in respect of person on board
of an aircraft.
(i) Surname, first name and any middle names ;
(ii) Date of Birth ;
(iii) Gender ;
(iv) Citizenship or nationality ;
(v) The type of travel document that identifies the person, the name of the country in which the travel
document was issued, the number of the travel document and the expiry date of the travel document ;
and
(vi) Reservation record locator of the person, if any, and in the case of a person in charge of the flight or
any other crew member without a reservation record locator, notifcation of their status as a crew
member.
8. Advance Passenger Information to be reported not later than fifteen minutes of leaving or taking off of the
aircraft from the port of embarkation outside Sri Lanka to Sri Lanka Customs Passenger Information System.
9. Advance Passenger Information in respect of an Aircraft departing Sri Lanka Airport to an Airport outside Sri
Lanka shall be reported to Sri Lanka Customs Advance Passenger Information Systems (APIS) before the
outward clearance for such flight in sought.
10. The Advance Passenger Information mentioned in Regulation 7 shall be communicated electronically as is
set out in one of the formats prescribed in the Message Implementation Guide published on the official
website of Sri Lanka Customs.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'12'30
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 30.12.2015
3A
11. The Director General of Customs may issue different formats from time to time for the submission of
advance passenger information electronically and publish such formats in a Message Implementation Guide.
PART 3
Contraventions
12. An operator of an Aircraft who contravenes regulation 7, 8, or 9 (after the general/further moratorium period)
by failing to submit the information required or submits any forged, altered, incomplete or false information
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on conviction after summery trial by a magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding One Hundred Thousand Rupees.
PART 4
Moratorim Period
1. The General Moratorium Period is the period of 3 months beginning on the date of operation of the regulations.
2. If :
(a) an operator of an Aircraft applies to the Director General of Customs for the grant of a further moratorium
period to have effect at the end of the general moratorium period ; and
(b) the Director General of Customs is satisfied that the operator has, within the general moratorium
period, made reasonable progress in :
(i) installing the facilities required for the making of electronic advance passenger information ; or
(ii) in putting in place bu siness practices or entering into business arrangements to enable the making
of electronic advance passenger information ;
The Director General of Customs may grant to the operator a further moratorium period of not more
than 1 month beginning at the end of the general moratorium period.
PART 5
Data Privacy Protection
3. All Advance Passenger Information provided under these regulations are highly sensitive in nature and therefore,
Sri Lanka Customs shall take ncessary measures to strictly control and monitor the storage, access, use and
disclosure of such data.
4. Use and Access to Advance Passenger Information by Customs and other enforcement officials should be
authorized by an officer in the rank not below a Director of Customs who should take utmost care in authorizing
such access.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.