

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI LANKA
————————
[Bill No. 274]
————————
Presented by Hon. Neranjan Wickremasinghe, M. P. for
Kurunegala District on 23rd October, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on October 07, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
————————
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 5. 00
2-2d
STATE EMPLOYEES DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
to incorporate the State Employees Development Foundation

<!-- page 2 -->

1State Employees Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
2—PL 007606—  75 (09/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE STATE EMPLOYEES DEVELOPMENT
FOUNDATION.
FOR the reasons that the Sri Lanka Local Government
Employees Association, with the consent of its Membership
formed Employees’ Development Finance Corporate for the
welfare and Financial Development of its member, ability
by the Rules and Regulations of the social Corporation and
implemented productivity:
As the Social Corporation had performed its duties so far to
satisfy the purposes to which the social corporation  was
established, and as the social corporation had made a request
to change the name as Government Employees Development
Foundation and fulfilling the request is for the welfare of
the General Public:
BE it therefor enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act will be named as State Employees
Development Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No.     of
2013.
2.   From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of
the State Employees Development  Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted as members of the Corporation hereby
constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred
to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under
the name and style of the 
State Employees Development
Foundation and by that name may sue and be sued in all
courts, with full power and authority to have and use a
common seal and to alter the same at its pleasure.
Incorporation
of State
Employees
Development
Foundation
.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 State Employees Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted are hereby declared to be—
(a) performance of welfare activites, and providing loan
facilities which would result in the social
economical Development of Employees and the
retired officers of the Central Government and the
Local Government Sector and the Local
Government Sector;
(b) starting and maintaining industries and services
which would result in generating employment
opportunities; and
(c) to work co-operatively with similar establishment
in Sri Lanka and Overseas.
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power —
(a) receiving money required for the functioning of
the Corporation of the basis of loans or grants from
lawful Banks and Financial Establishments;
(b) to enter into agreements or contracts with any person
or body of persons in Sri Lanka or Overseas;
(c) subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power
to do, perform and executive all such acts, matters
and things as are necessary or desirable for the
promotion or furtherance of the objects of the
Corporation and close bank accounts, to receive or
collect grants and donations, to invest funds and to
engage, employ and dismiss, officers and servants
required for carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The management, control and administration of
the Corporation shall subject to the provisions of this Act
and the rules in force for the time being of the Corporation,
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
objects of the
Corporation.
Powers of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

3State Employees Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
vest in a Governing Council (hereafter referred to as “the
Director Board”) consisting of  such number of members
including the Chairman in accordance with the rules in force
for the time being if the Corporation.
(2) The Board of Directors holding posts on the day prior
to the implementation of this Act should be treated as the
first Board of Directors of the Corporation.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the  Board of Directors from
time to time to make rules not inconsistence with the
provisions of this Act or any other written law for the
following matters:—
(a) election and qualifications of the Board of Directors
including the Chairman, expulsion, payment of
allowances and travelling, qualifications and
appointment of staff, disciplinary matters, and all
rules with regards to payment of salaries wages and
allowances;
(b) all rules with regards to, performence, maintenance
and protection of the common objectives appearing
in the Act;
(c) all rules with regards to, implementation,
maintenance and protection of powers appearing
in the Act;
(d) all rules with regards to, Director Board meetings,
minutes general adminstration, accounts auditing
finance statements, rules and all rules needed to
maintain records.
(2) The rules made by the Corporation under subsection
(1) shall be altered, added to, amended or rescinded at a like
meeting and in like manner as a rule made under subsection
(1) from time to time, at any annual general meeting.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 State Employees Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys received by way of gifts, testamentary dispositions,
transfers, donations or contributions shall be deposited in
the name of the Corporation in once or more banks as may
be decided by the Council.
(2) The Corpration may establish a depreciation fund or a
sinking fund for the purpose of rehabilitation, development
or improvement of the property of the Corporation.
(3) All expenses incurred by the Corporation in the
exercise and discharge of the powers and functions of the
Corporation shall be paid out of the fund of the Corporation.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law to
acquire and hold any property, movable or immovable, which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,
subscription, gift, grant, or testamentary disposition or
otherwise and all such property shall be held by the
Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. No member of the Corporation shall, for the purpose
of discharging the debts and liabilities of the Corporation or
for any other purpose, be liable to make any contribution
exceeding the amount of annual subscription payable by
him to the Corporation.
10. (1) All properties and debts and liabilities of the
Foundation existing on the day immediately preceding the
date of commencement  of this Act, shall be paid by the
Corporation hereby constituted and all debts, due to,
subscriptions and  contributions payable to the Foundation
on such day shall be paid to the Corporation for the purposes
of this Act.
(2) The properties and services owned and maintained by
the State Employees Development Finance Foundation on
the date prior to the implementation of this Act shall hand
them over to the Corporation incorporated by this Act.
Fund of the
Corporation.
Corporation
may hold
property may
be or
immovable.
Limitation of
Liability of
members.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

5State Employees Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(a) the one acre land situated at No. 94 of
Hathdaththeewa village in the Mahiyangana
Sorabora Colony and the sand mining project;
(b) 8 perch land situated at Kohodapola village in the
Polgahawela electorate division and the building
of mechanical capentry workshop.
11. If upon the winding up or the dissolution of the
Corporation there remains after the satisfaction of all its debts
and liabilities, any property shall not be distributed among
the members of the Corporation, but shall be given or
transferred to some other institution or institutions, having
objects similar to those of the Corporation and which is or
are by its or their rules prohibited from distributing and
income or property among its or their members.
12. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be
the calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all their transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
In this section “Qualified auditor” means:
(
1) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Charted Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other
Institute established by law, possess a certificate to
practice as an Accountant issued by the council of
such institute; or
(2) a Firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Charted
Accountants of Sri Lanka or any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to
practise as an Accountant issued by the Council of
such Institute.
Auditing
activities.
Property
remaining on
the
dissolution of
the
Corporation.

<!-- page 7 -->

6 State Employees Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
5
13. The Seal of the  Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, expect in the presence of the
Chairman or the Managing Director or such other person as
may be duly athorized by the Council who shall sign their
names to the instruments in token of their presence and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
14. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic or any body politic or
corporate of any other persons.
15. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Seal of the
Corporation.
10

<!-- page 8 -->

7State Employees Development Foundation
(Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .