

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2016
1A
w;s úfYI
wxl 1985$5 - 2016 iema;eïn¾ ui 19 jeks i÷od - 2016'09'19
No. 1985/5 - MONDAY,  SEPTEMBER  19, 2016
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
STRATEGIC  DEVELOPMENT  PROJECTS  ACT,   No.  14 OF  2008
Notification under Section 3(2)
BY virtue of the powers vested in me in terms of Section 3(2) of the Strategic Development Projects Act, No. 14 of 2008 is
amended, I, Malik Samarawickrama, being the Minister in Charge of the subject of Development Strategies and International
Trade, in consultation with the Minister in charge of Finance, do by this Notification-
(1) Identify as a Strategic Development Project for the purposes of the aforesaid Act, the project for the
development of Colombo Port City in two phases for the construction of wave protection breakwater, land
reclamation, ground improvement, revetment, canals to connect seawater, artery roads, utilities and for transfer
or lease of any leasehold rights to the prospective buyers in accordance with applicable law. This Project will
bring significant economic and social benefit to the country :–
(i) by the development of Colombo Port City creating a new land area in extent of Two Hundred and Sixty
Nine Hectares (269 Hec.) which will be given highest priority in economic development as per the
development strategy of the Government ;
(ii) through the inflow of foreign exchange and the total investment of United States Dollars One Thousand
Three Hundred and Thirty Seven Million (US$ 1,337 Mn) within the Project Implementation Period of
Eight (08) years from the date on which the Third Supplementary Agreement is singed between the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and the Project Company (“Project Implementation Period”) ;
(iii) through potential employment generation and consequent income earning opportunities for the people
of Sri Lanka ;
(iv) by attracting secondary foreign direct investment for the development of the reclaimed land ; and
(v) by developing the planned Colombo International Finance Centre in the Colombo Port City and the
consequent large foreign exchange turnover that could be generated.
(2) The Project Company is CHEC PORT CITY COLOMBO (PRIV ATE) LIMITED (“the Project Company”). The date
of commencement of implementation and commercial operations of the Project shall be within Eight (08) years
from the date the Third Supplementary Agreement is signed between the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka and
the Project Company.
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2016
2A
(3) Specify that for the purposes of the aforesaid project, in terms of the Strategic Development Projects  Act, No. 14
of 2008 as amended, the exemptions set out in Schedule I of this Notification shall apply to the Project Company.
(4) The Project Company and M/S China Harbour Engineering Company Limited (“CHEC”) being the contractor for
engineering, procurement and construction of the Project, are subsidiary companies of M/S China Communications
Construction Company Limited. Therefore, the concessions morefuly described in the Schedule II below under
the provisions of Strategic Development Project s   Act, No. 14 of 2008 as amended shall be applicable for the
Project Implementation Period for profits to be generated through this Project by M/S China Harbour Engineering
Company Limited.
SCHEDULE   I
(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on the
Project Company on the profit and income generated from the activities from the said Project shall not
apply for the period of twenty five (25) years (“Tax Exemption Period”).
The said Tax Exemption Period shall commence from the year in which the Project Company makes taxable
profit or six (06) years after commencement of construction of the project, whichever occurs earlier, excluding
the period between 6th March 2015 and 12th August 2016, the later date being the date on which the
Tripartite Agreement between the Project Company, the Government of Sri Lanka and the Urban Development
Authority was signed.
Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period income tax in respect of the profits and
income of the Project Company shall be payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for
the time being in force.
(ii) Tax on Dividends
Dividends distributed to the shareholders out of the exempted profit shall be exempted from the income tax
during the said tax exemption period of twenty five (25) years and one (01) year thereafter.
(iii) Withholding Tax
The Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Withholding Tax on the following ;
(a) on interest on foreign loans taken for capital expenditure and on technical fees paid to consultants ;
(b) on management fees and royalty payments provided however the total of such charges does not
exceed three per centum (3%) of the gross operating revenue ;
(c) on marketing fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed one point five per centum
(1.5%) of the gross operating revenue ; and
(d) on incentive management fees provided however the total of such fees does not exceed ten per
centum (10%) of the gross operating profit.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2016
3A
(iv) Paye Tax
The expatriate staff of the Project Company shall be exempted from the payment of Pay as You Earn Tax
(PAYE) subject to a restriction that this concession shall apply subject to the maximum number of thirty
(30) employees at any given time. Subject to such ceiling, this exemption is available for expatriate
project implementation staff during the project implementation period and for expatriate project
operational staff for a period of ten (10) years from the date of commencement of commercial operations
of the Project. Provided however, no single employee shall be given this exemption for a period in
excess of ten (10) years. Further, the Project Company shall be required to gradually replace expatriate
staff with local employees on a best efforts basis.
(2) Value Added Tax (V AT) Act, No. 14 of 2002
All imports of project related goods and local purchases of project related goods or services required for the
implementation of the project as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, shall be exempted from
the payment of Value Added Tax (V AT), during the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years. Any
contractor or a sub-contractor who supplies to such contractor, to the Project, will be entitled to the deferment
as permitted in the V AT Act.
The Project Company shall be liable for the payment of V AT as provided in the V AT Act, No. 14 of 2002 upon the
completion of the Project Implementation Period .
Provided however, transfer or lease of any leasehold rights to the project company or by the project company
to the prospective buyers in accordance with applicable law, shall be exempted from the payment of V AT.
(3) Ports and Airports Development Levy (PAL) Act, No. 18 of 2011
The project company shall be exempted from the payment and charge of Ports and Airports Development
Levy (PAL), on the project related goods as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported during
the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years. The exemption shall be applicable on direct imports
by the Project Company for the Project or on imports by a contractor or sub-contractor for the purposes of
the Project, so long as the consignee of such goods is the Project Company, subject to the condition referred
to in item No. (08) below.
(4) The Finance Act No. 5 of 2005
The Project Company/Contractors shall be exempted from construction industry Guarantee Fund Levy imposed
under the Finance Act No. 05 of 2005 in relation to the Project.
(5) Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989
Import of project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall be exempted from
the Excise Duty Payment during the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years.
(6) The Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of 1979
Import of project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka shall be exempted from
the payment of CESS during the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years.
(7) Nation Building Tax (NBT)
The Project Company, the contractor and the sub-contractors shall be exempted from the Nation Building Tax
during the Project Implementation Period of eight (08) years.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^ I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2016'09'19
PART I : SEC. (I) - GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI  LANKA - 19.09.2016
4A
Provided Futher, transfer or lease of any leasehold rights to the project company or by the project company to the
prospective buyers in accordance with applicable law, shall be exempted from the payment of NBT.
(8) Customs Duty on Importation of Project Related Items (Customs Ordinance - Chapter 235)
Exemption from Customs Duty will be applicable to all project related items in capital nature and any other
project related items as approved by the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka imported in the name of the Project
Company Implementing the Project in relation to items so imported solely for the purpose of the Project
whether directly imported by the Project Company or sourced through the contractors of sub-contractors to
the contractors provided that the goods consigned in the name of the Project Company other than the items
mentioned in the Negative List within the Project Implementation Period of Eight (08) years. The items in the
Negative List will also be exempted from the Customs Duty where such items are either not wholly produced
in Sri Lanka or are unavailable in sufficient quality, quantity and time lines for Project completion.
As such, in general, project related goods could be imported through a contractor or a sub-contractor in respect
of the project within the Project Implementation Period  of Eight (08) years as provided above, only if the Project
Company is named as the consignee of such goods. Hence, if such imports have been done along with any other
imports, the Project Company shall be solely responsible to ensure that the concessions noted herein shall be
available only to project related goods of the Project Company, if so, for any reason this condition has been
violated, taxes and levies payable under laws and regulations prevailing at the time shall apply to all goods that
do not form part of project related goods for the project and such taxes shall become payable forthwith. It is noted
that any personal effects imported by the Project Company for the private/personal use of any employee,
consultant or any other of the Project Company shall not be treated as project related goods. It is further noted
that in view of the exemptions/concessions granted to the Project Company under the Strategic Development
Projects  Act, No. 14 of 2008, no tenant or any other party associating with the project or the Project Company will
be granted any exemptions or concessions in view of or consequent to such association in connection with the
Project.
SCHEDULE  II
(1) Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006
(i) Corporate Income Tax
The provisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 relating to the imposition of income tax on the
China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd. (“CHEC”) on the profit and income generated from the activities
from the said Project shall not apply for a period of eight (08) years.
The said Tax Exemption Period of Eight (08) years shall commence from the year in which the China Harbour
Engineering Company Ltd. (“CHEC”) commences the construction of the Project, but excluding the period
between 6th March, 2015 and 12th August 2016, the later date being the date on which the Tripartite
Agreement between the Project Company, the Government of Sri Lanka and the Urban Development
Authority was signed.
Provided that after the expiry of the aforesaid Tax Exemption Period of Eight (08) years, income tax in
respect of the profits and income of the China Harbour Engineering Company Ltd. (“CHEC”) shall be
payable in terms of the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act for the time being in force.
M
ALIK S AMARAWICKRAMA , MP ,
Minister of Development Strategies
and International Trade,
on this 19th day of September, 2016.
10-15
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.