

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2011
1037
1037
wxl 1"715 - 2011 cQ,s ui 15 jeks isl=rdod - 2011'07'15
No. 1,715 – FRIDAY , JULY 15, 2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 1039
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... ––
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 22nd July, 2011 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 08th July,
2011.
LAKSHMAN  GOONEWARDENA,
Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2011.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2011
1038
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2011
1039
Posts – Vacant
SRI  LANKA  AIR  FORCE
Officer  Vacancies
V ACANCIES exists for Male/Female Commissioned Officers in
the Regular/V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the following
branches :–
(a) Logistics Branch,
(b) Medical Branch,
(c) Administrative Veterinary Branch,
(d) Administrative Legal Branch.
2. Applications are invited from those candidates possessing
the professional qualifications given below :
(a) Logistics Branch :
Technical Officer Apparel - Male/Female (Regular)
* A Bachelor Degree in Science, Technology or Engineering
preferably with a Post Graduate Diploma qualification
in Textile and Clothing Technology with 5 years working
experience in apparel sector with minimum of three
years as a Trainer/Consultant in Textile and Apparel
Technology covering product development, productivity
improvement merchandising and work study ; or
* Should have a Diploma in Textile and Clothing from Sri
Lanka Institute of Textile and Apparel or any other
recognized institute with 2 years working experience in
Textile and Clothing Technology.
(b) Medical Branch :
Consultants (Board Certified)/Senior Registrars - Male/
Female (V olunteer) :
* Holding a Consultant position at the Ministry of
Health/Board certified Consultants with MD or MS
on following :
* Consultant Anaesthetists,
* General Physician,
* Consultant Orthopaedic Surgeon,
* Consultant Paediatrician,
* Consultant Obstetrician and Gynaecologist.
Medical Officers - Male/Female (Regular/V olunteer) :
* MBBS with Sri Lanka Medical Council Registration.
Pre-Intern Trainees - Male/Female (Volunteer) :
* MBBS or Medical degree equivalent to MBBS (Sri
Lanka) from any recognized University of a foreign
country which is accepted by SLMC. They will be
enlisted as V olunteer Commissioned Officer for a period
of 5 years and should qualify the ERPM examination
and SLMC registration within 5 years from the date of
enlistment. The service of the Pre-Intern Trainees who
fail to qualify the above examination will be terminated.
(Selected candidates will be commissioned in the rank
of Flying Officer. After completion of ERPM
examination and with SLMC registration they will be
considered for the rank of Flight Lieutenant.)
(c) Administrative Veterinary Branch :
Veterinary Officers - Male (Regular/V olunteer)
* Bachelor of Veterinary Sciences from the University of
Peradeniya or equivalent with Sri Lanka Veterinary
Council Registration.
(d) Administrative Legal Branch  :
Legal Officers - Male/Female (Regular/V olunteer)
* Attorney-at-Law with minmum three (3) years
experience in prosecuting, preparation of Commercial
contracts, Notarial Documents, Memorandum of
Understanding and documents pertaining to
procurements.
3. Other Entry requirements :
(a) Nationality : Must be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
(b) Civil Status : Married/unmarried.
(c) Gender : Male/Femal (As applicable)
(d) Height : Male - 5'5" and above
Female - 5'4" and above
(e) Age : As at 15th August, 2011
(1) Logistics Branch : Not more than 33 years for
Degree holders and 26 years for
Diploma holders
(2) Medical Branch : Preference will be given to those
[Consultants who are below 45 years
(Board Certified)/
Senior Registrars]
(3) Medical Branch : Not more than 40 years
(Medical Officers)
(4) Medical Branch : Not more than 35 years
(Pre-Intern
Trainees)
(5) Administrative : Not more than 35 years
Veterinary and
Administrative
Legal Branches
(f) Chest : Minimum 32" (Male)
(g) Vision colour standard : CP2
(h) Visual Acuity : Left eye 6/6 and right eye 6/6
(with or without spectacles).

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2011
1040
4. Any candidate who may have a special qualifications may at
the discretion of the Commander of the Air Force be considered,
even though he/she may not have the requisite height, provided he/
she possesses the requisite professional qualifications.
5. Be medically fit so as to pass such medical examinations as
may be prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force.
6. Due considerations will be given to current outstanding
achievements in the field of sports.
7. Official Language Requirements.– Selected candidates will be
required to comply with any rules already made or may be made
hereafter for giving effect to the Language Policy of the Republic of
Sri Lanka and in particular for implementing the provisions in the
Official Language Act, No. 33 of 1956.
8. Selected candidates will be commissioned in the Regular/
V olunteer Force of the Sri Lanka Air Force in the rank of Flying
Officer Flight Lieutenant Squadron Leader, Wing Commander,
Group Captain or Air Commodore as applicable in keeping with
their qualifications and experience.
9. Selected candidates will be required to undergo training at
such places as decided by the Commander of the Air Force. If at
any time during training, the Officer is reported on by the authorities
as being unsuitable for reasons of misconduct or due to causes
within his/her control, he/she will be liable to have his/her
commission withdrawn and/or be subject to other disciplinary action
in accordance with the Sri Lanka Air Force Disciplinary Regulations.
10. All officers are governed by the Air Force Act and orders
issued from time to time.
11. The conditions of service for an officer of the Sri Lanka Air
Force are in terms of Sri Lanka Air Force Regulations published in
Gazette No. 10,240 of 27th April, 1951 and as amended from time
to time. In terms of Section 10 of the Air Force Act, "Every Officer
shall hold his/her appointment during the President's pleasure".
However an officer has no right to resign his/her commission
unilaterally, but under provision of Section 11 of the Air Force Act,
may be allowed by the President to do so. The provisions of any
Bond/Agreement envisaging a period of obligatory service in respect
of training and subsequent courses will not supersede the provisions
of Section 11 of the Air Force Act, stated above. Retirement from
the Air Force will be applicable under conditions specified in the
Air Force Pensions and Gratuities Code.
12. All Officers are liable to be posted for duty or training in any
part of the world at any time.
13. A single Officer is required to live in the Officers Mess.
He/She is provided with furnished accommodation and food. Batman
service will also be provided. A single Officer’s ration allowance
and batman allowance are paid to the Mess.
14. A married Officer may be provided with a married quarter if
available. Recovery of rental will be as per the Establishment Code.
Married Officers not in occupation of married quarters will be
entitled to a rental allowance as stated in para 15(b)(17).
15. ( a) Pay applicable for Commissioned Officers shall be as
follows :
Flying officer - Rs. 275,220 - 34 x 7,740 - Rs. 538,380
  p. a.
Flight Lieutenant - Rs. 321,660 - 28 x 7,740 -
  Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Squadron Leader - Rs. 352,620 - 24 x 7,740 -
  Rs. 538,380 p. a.
Wing Commander - Rs. 362,100 - 20 x 9,480 -
  Rs. 551,700 p. a.
Group Captain - Rs. 441,060  - 18 x 12,600 -
  Rs. 667,860 p. a.
Air Commodore - Rs. 466,260 - 16 x 12,600 -
Rs. 667,860 p. a.
(b) Pay applicable Medical Officers :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 313,920 - 2 x 7,740 -
Rs. 329,400 p. a.
Grade II - Rs. 337,140  - 8 x 7,800 -  Rs. 399,540 p. a.
Grade I - Rs. 412,140 - 16 x 12,600 - Rs. 601,140 p. a.
Specialist Grade - Rs. 508,680 - 12 x 15,720 -
Rs. 697,320 p. a.
(c) Other allowances applicable to Medical Officers :
(1) Pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade II - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 3,400 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 3,400 per month
(2) Non Pensionable allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 2,125 per month
Grade II - Rs. 1,700 per month
Grade I - Rs. 400 per month
(3) Extra duty allowances :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 12,500 per month
Grade II - Rs. 12,500 per month
Grade I - Rs. 12,500 per month
Specialist Grade - Rs. 12,500 per month
(4) Extra duty payments :
Preliminary Grade - Rs. 210,000 per hour
Grade II - Rs. 280 per hour
Grade I - Rs. 300 per hour
Specialist Grade - Rs. 350 per hour
(5) Service allowances indicated in paragraph 15(d)
will be calculated separately as applicable.
(d) Serivce Allowances :
(1) Cost of living allowance Rs. 5,850 per month.
(2) Incentive allowance of Rs. 250 per month after
five years of service.
(3) Hardling allowance Rs. 600 per month.
(4) Enhanced allowance Rs. 5,000 per month for
those serving in operational areas.

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2011
1041
(5) Special Hard Allowance Rs. 3,000 per month
(Rs. 100 will be paid for each working day).
(6) Interim Allowance Rs. 1,000 per month.
(7) Uniform upkeep allowance Rs. 255 per month.
(8) Batman allowance Rs. 637.50 per month
(if permitted to live out).
(9) Ration allowance Rs. 11,464 per month
(if permitted to live out).
(10) Qualification pay where applicable (up to a
maximum of Rs. 637.50 per month).
(11) Special allowance 5% of consolidated salary.
(12) Three sets of holiday railway warrants per year
(for officer, spouse and children).
(13) An additional set of railway warrants or the
reimbursement of bus fare for officers living in
Messes to travel from the Mess to the hometown
once a month.
(14) Free issue of uniforms and ancillary items.
(15) Free medical facilities (including for families if
applicable).
(16) Married officers permitted to live out are entitled
to a free bus pass to travel from residence to
place of work within 30 miles radius.
(17) Rent allowance for married officers not in
occupation of a Government married quarter.
Pilot Officer to Group Captain and above Rs.
1,850 to Rs. 4,250 per month.
(18) Service allowance Rs. 300, Rs. 400, Rs. 500 as
applicable (Payable to service Medical Branch
Officers in consideration to the number of
complete years of service).
(19) Additional service allowance Rs. 1,500 per month
(applicable to service Medical Branch Officers
only).
(20) 1/20 allowance .– Con pay x 1/20 x 3 days
(maximum) per month (applicable to service
Medical Branch Officers only).
16. Pensions/Gratuities. – Payable in terms of the Air Force
Pensions and Gratuities Code 1981 and as amended from time to
time. All officers are contributors to the Widows and Orphans
Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme. Rates of contributions are as per
Widows and Orphans Pension (Armed Forces) Scheme Regulations
1970.
17. Instructions to applicants :–
(a) Applications should be submitted in terms of the form
specified below. All cages of the application should be
completed neatly with as much details as possible.
Applications should be addressed to “Chief Recruiting
Officer, Sri Lanka Air Force, Ekala, Kotugoda” so as to
reach him not later than 1200 noon on 22nd July, 2011
under registered cover. The envelope enclosing the
application should be marked “Application for
Commission in the .............. Branch”. Applications
received after the closing date and not in accordance with
the requirements of this notification and not in registered
post mail will not be entertained.
(b) Candidates who are in Government Service/Corporations/
Boards/Civil Establishments should forward their
applications through their Heads of Department/
Corporations/Boards/Civil Establishments and should
bear a certificate to the effect that the candidate will be
released if selected.
(c) Applicants should attach to their applications copies of :
(1) Certificate of Registration of Birth ;
(2) Certificates of the highest academic and professional
qualifications obtained ;
(3) Certificates of character from at least two responsible
persons who are personally acquainted with the
applicant ;
(4) Certificates in support of sports activities, cadetting
etc. ;
(5) Certificate in support of any claims made in the
application.
* Note .– Originals of these certificates should be
produced only if and when the applicant is called for
the interviews.
18. Any statement in the application which is found to be
incorrect will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the
inaccuracy is discovered before the selection and to dismissal if
discovered after the selection.
19. Selection Interview :
(a) Preliminary selections will be made amongst those
candidates who fulfil the above conditions only.
Candidates so selected from the Preliminary Interview
will be required to undergo a medical test as may be
prescribed by the Commander of the Air Force. The
final selection will then be made after an interview
appointed by the Ministry of Defence.
(b) Candidates selected for interviews will be informed in
writing of the place, time and date of such interviews.
No travelling or other expenses will be paid in this
respect.
(c) On every occasion an applicant is summoned for an
interview he/she is to produce his/her National Identity
Card issued by the Department of Registration of
Persons.
(d) Candidates likely to be suitable following their final
interviews will be required to present themselves before
an Air Force Medical Board.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2011'07'15
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 15.07.2011
1042
(e) Any one who desires to recommend a candidate should
do so by giving his/her testimonial. Any form of
canvassing or attempt to influence in the selection of a
candidate will result in disqualification of such
candidate.
(f) Candidates who are found unsuitable for enlistment
will not be notified.
H. D. A
BEYWICKRAMA,
Air Marshal,
Commander of the Air Force.
Headquarters,
Sri Lanka Air Force,
P. O. Box 594,
Colombo.
APPLICATION  FOR  COMMISSION
IN  THE  SRI  LANKA
REGULAR/VOLUNTEER  AIR FORCE IN
THE ........... BRANCH
1. Nationality :–––––––––––.
(State whether citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration and if latter, quote number and date of certificate)
2. Full Name (as per the National Identity Card) :––––––––––.
3. National Identity Card Number :–––––––––––.
4. Branch applied :–––––––––––.
5. Post applied :–––––––––––.
6. Permanent Address :–––––––––––.
7. Nearest Police Station to permanent Address :–––––––––––.
8. Postal Address :–––––––––––.
9. Date of Birth :–––––––––––.
10. Height : –––––––'  –––––––––"
11. District :–––––––––––.
12. Electorate :–––––––––––.
13. G. S. Division :–––––––––––.
14. Telephone Number :–––––––––––.
15. Civil Status :–––––––––––.
16. Particulars of School and/or University and qualifications
obtained :
Name of Type of Year of Subjects passed
School/ examination examination (including
University grading)
Ordinary Level  :
Advanced Level :
Professional
Qualifications :
Other :
17. Particulars of employment since leaving School/University :
(if applicable) :
Name and Address Nature of Period of service
of employer employment From            To
18. Particulars of parents :
Full Name Place of Birth Occupation Present
Address
Father :
Mother :
19. Any special qualification for the post :–––––––––––.
20. Details of current achievements in sports. (Give details of
teams and competitions participated with dates/years etc.
and standards/levels achieved) :–––––––––––.
21. Other achievements of note at School/University or with
outside organizations. (Give details with dates/years etc.) :
––––––––––.
22. Any previous service in the Armed Force or V olunteer Force,
Cadet Corps or Boy Scout Organization :–––––––––––.
23. Have you applied earlier to join the Sri Lanka Air Force or
any of the Armed Services or Police, if so give details and the
outcome of such applications :–––––––––––.
24. Have you being convicted or bound over by a civil or military
court, if so give details :–––––––––––.
25. If earlier employed in a Government Department or in the
Public Sector/Board/Corporation (including the Central Bank,
National Bank, Universities, Joint Stock Companies controlled
by the Government etc.) reasons for termination of
employment :––––––.
26. Particulars of testimonials :
Name Designation Postal Address
27. Declaration to be signed by the applicant :
I declare on my honour that answers given to the above questions
are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I have
read and understood the procedure which will be adopted and the
rules which will apply in respect of those candidates who are
selected for commission in the Sri Lanka Air Force published in the
Gazette of the Republic of Sri Lanka.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.
07–390
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.