

<!-- page 1 -->

THE GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
Part II of May 26, 2017
SUPPLEMENT
(Issued on 29. 05. 2017)
 SPECIAL  DEPOSIT  ACCOUNT
A
BILL
to provide for a Special Deposit Account for  foreign nationals to remit
foreign  exchange  into  Sri Lanka; and  for  matters connected  therewith  or
incidental thereto.
Ordered to be published by the Minister of Finance
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 10.00

<!-- page 2 -->

1Special Deposit Account
5
10
15
20
Short title.
2—PL 005198—475 (05/2017)
L. D.—O. 54/2016
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR A SPECIAL DEPOSIT ACCOUNT FOR  FOREIGN
NATIONALS TO REMIT FOREIGN EXCHANGE INTO SRI LANKA; AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Special Deposit Account
Act, No.    of  2017.
2. (1) Subject to the provisions of any written law, a
foreign national may open and maintain an account which
shall be called a “Special Deposit Account” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Account”) in a commercial bank in
Sri Lanka in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Account shall be opened with a minimum sum of
not less than United States Dollars five hundred thousand or
its equivalent in such convertible foreign currency as may
be specified in the Schedule hereto (hereinafter referred to
as the “minimum sum”).
(3) The Minister may prescribe by regulation, any other
convertible foreign currency by which a foreign national
may operate the Account, which is not set out in the Schedule
to this Act.
3. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 4—
(a) an Account holder—
(i) who deposits and maintains a minimum
sum; or
Special
Deposit
Account.
Facilities
given to
Account
holders.

<!-- page 3 -->

Special Deposit Account2
5
10
15
20
25
30
(ii) who shows sufficient proof of any
prescribed investment through the
Account within Sri Lanka equivalent
to the minimum sum,
shall be eligible for a resident visa in Sri Lanka
for a maximum period of ten years from the
date of opening the Account;
(b) (i) the spouse of the Account holder shall
be entitled to a resident visa in Sri Lanka
if in addition to the minimum sum, an
additional sum of not less than United
States Dollars three hundred thousand
or its equivalent is deposited into such
Account;
(ii) the spouse of the Account holder shall
be entitled to a resident visa only during
the validity of the Account holder’s
resident visa obtained under this Act;
(c) the minor children of such Account holder
shall be entitled to a resident visa in Sri Lanka
during the validity of the Account holder’s
resident visa obtained under this Act or until
the age of eighteen years, whichever shall
precede.
(2) An Account holder shall maintain such Account for
the duration of the resident visa.
(3) The Minister may prescribe by regulations the
categories of investments that an Account holder may invest
in through the Account for the purposes of this Act.
(4) An Account holder shall not be entitled to engage in
any paid employment without a working visa granted for
such purpose according to written law.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Special Deposit Account
(5) Every Account holder shall be free from any tax or any
other levies—
(a) on income or profit derived from outside Sri Lanka;
and
(b) on interest on income accrued or capital in the
Account,
under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006, subject to any
administrative or operational levy as may be determined by
the Central Bank.
(6) The provisions of  the Exchange Control Act, No. 39
of 1973 on the limits on remittances into Sri Lanka shall not
apply in respect of any Account holder under this Act.
(7) Strict confidentiality shall be maintained at all times
except when required by any written law,  by a court or by the
Central Bank.
4. (1) The provisions of the Immigrants and Emigrants
Act, No. 20 of 1948 shall apply in respect of the issuing,
cancelling or amending any visa granted for the purposes of
this Act.
(2) In addition to subsection (1), a visa shall be deemed to
be cancelled upon —
(a) the death of the Account holder;
(b) the Account holder being suspected of treason;
(c) subject to subsection (3), the failure of the Account
holder to maintain the minimum sum specified under
this Act;
(d) being adjudged a bankrupt;
5
10
15
20
25
Issuing,
cancelling
&c. of visa.

<!-- page 5 -->

Special Deposit Account4
Regulations.
(e) the Account holder failing to route foreign
exchange utilized for investment purposes through
the Account;
(f) the closure of the Account.
(3) Where the Account holder has failed to maintain the
minimum sum as specified in section 3(1)(a), the commercial
bank shall notify the Controller of Immigration and
Emigration within seven days after giving the account holder
a grace period not exceeding one calendar month.
(4) Where a visa has been cancelled on the occurrence of
an event specified in subsection (2), it shall be the duty of the
Account holder, to take all such action as may become
necessary to comply with any direction, order or instruction
as may be issued under the Immigrants and Emigrants Act,
No. 20 of 1948 or any direction of the Minister assigned the
subject of Foreign Affairs.
5. (1) The Minister may make regulations for all matters
which are prescribed under this Act and for which regulations
are authorized to be made.
(2) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.
(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for its approval. Any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(4) A notification of the date on which any regulation
shall be deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in the
Gazette.
5
10
15
20
25
30

<!-- page 6 -->

5Special Deposit Account
6. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“Account holder” means a foreign national who has
opened an Account and maintains the Account
in terms of this Act;
“Central Bank” means Central Bank of Sri Lanka
established under the Monetary Law Act, No.
58 of 1949;
“commercial bank” means a licensed commercial
bank within the meaning of the Banking Act,
No. 30 of 1988;
“foreign national” means a natural person who is not
a citizen of Sri Lanka and shall include a dual
citizen of Sri Lanka;
“Minister” means Minister assigned the subject of
Finance.
7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
SCHEDULE [section 2(2)]
1. British Pound
2. Euro
3. Australian Dollar
4. Japanese Yen
5. Singapore Dollar
6. Canadian Dollar
7. Swiss Franc
5
10
15
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 7 -->

Special Deposit Account6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .