

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.04.2010
w;s úfYI
wxl 1650$31 - 2010 wfm%a,a 23 jeks isl=rdod - 2010'04'23
No. 1650/31  -  FRIDAY ,   APRIL   23,  2010
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
1A
WESTERN  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  FINANCIAL  (AMENDMENT)  STATUTE  No.  02  OF  2010
I, Prasanna Ranathunga, Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education, Local
Government, Provincial Administration, Manpower and Employment, Economic Promotion, Power and Energy of the
Western Province Provincial Council, here by declare that Financial Amendment Statute, No. 02 of 2010 Western Provincial
Council, do by this order amend with effect from 08th March, 2010 as Assent by the Honorable Governor of
Western Province.
P
RASANNA RANA THUNGA
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Land, Education, Local Government, Provincial Administration,
 Manpower and Employment, Economic Promotion, Power and Energy
of the Western Province Provincial Council.
Chief Ministry Office,
Shrawasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07,
16th  April 2010.
Be it enacted as follows by the Western  Province  Provincial Council  of the Democratic  Socialist  Republic
of  Sri Lanka.:-
1. This Statute is cited as the Financial (Amendment) Statute No. 02 of 2010 of the Western
Province and this Statute shall come into operation on such a date determined by the Minister through an
Order published in the Gazette Paper following the signature put on by the Governor.
Short title and
Date of
Operation.
FINANCIAL  (AMENDMENT)  STATUTE  No. 02  OF  2010  OF  THE  WESTERN  PROVINCE
A Statute to amend the Financial Statute No. 06 of 1990 of the Western Province which  has been amended
 by the Statute No. 02 of 2006

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.04.2010
2A
Amendments to
Subsection 3(2)
of the Main
Statute.
payment of
turnover tax.
2. Sub-section 3(2) of the Main Statute shall be removed and it will be amended by substituting
the following  Subsection :-
(2) For the purposes of this Chapter “business” means selling by wholesale or retail of any
commodity not include sales by a manufacturer of any commodity produced by him.
3. Section 11 of the Financial Statute No. 06 of 1990 of the Western Province amended by the
Statute No. 02 of 2009, is removed and that Section will be amended by substituting the following
Section :-
11 (1) The turnover tax in respect of any quarter shall be paid not later than the fifteenth
day of the month following  the end of that quarter. However, when the turnover   for a previous quarter of
a certain business exceeds ten million rupees, the turnover  tax paid for the subsequent quarter shall be
paid as follows :-
(a) a sum equals to one third of the turnover tax due to be paid for the previous
quarter, shall be paid on or before the fifteenth day of the second month of the
subsequent quarter ;
(b) a sum equals to two thirds of the turnover tax due to be paid for the previous
quarter, shall be paid on or before the fifteenth day of the third month of the
subsequent quarter ;
(c) the remaining part of the turnover  tax due to be paid for the relevant quarter,
shall be paid on or before the fifteenth day of the first month of the above
quarter ;
Any tax not paid so shall deemed to be a defaulted tax, when that tax be paid by certain
person or establishment, that person or establishment and when it has to be paid by more
than one person or by a partnership, by each person or each partner of partnerships shall be
considered for the purposes of this Statute as a person who has defaulted the payments.
(2) Whatever be mentioned in this Statute, at an instance of transferring a particular
good by an importer, producer or a seller for the purpose of selling to a particular person or an institution,
from the sum received or to be received for that transfer, an amount calculated on the rate of turnover
tax equal to the turnover tax determined by the Minister from time to time through Gazette Notifications
under the subsection 7(1) for the said good shall be charged as a Withholding Turnover Tax.
(3) ( a) On or later the date this Statute comes into operation, every individual or an
institution engaged in any transaction that can be levied a Withholding Turnover
Tax, shall be registered subjected to the provisions of this statute and as ordered
by this Statute.
(b) Every individual or an institution to be registered under the above paragraph (a),
shall forward a request for registration to the Commissioner within 30 days from
the date of such subjugation.
(c) The Commissioner may ask at any instance for information related to the
transactions that can levied taxes, for registration under Subparagraph (a).
Amendment to
Section 11 of the
Main Statute.
Charging a
Withholding
Turnover Tax
for the goods
transferred to a
certain person or
institution for
the purpose of
selling.
Registration.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.04.2010
Issuance of a
voucher by
levying
Withholding
Turnover Tax.
(d) When a request for registration is made by an individual or an institution
subjected to be registered under the Paragraph (a) to the Commissioner to get
registered under Paragraph (a), the Commissioner shall register that individual
or the institution if the Commissioner decides that person or organization
be registered under Paragraph (a), Subsequent to the registration of any
individual or an institution by the Commissioner —
(i) a Registration number ; and
(ii) a Certificate of registration ;
shall be issued to that individual or the institution by the Commissioner.
(e) In the event of any alteration of the –
(i) business name or the location of the business or the address of the business
run by that individual or the institution  or
(ii) nature of the ownership or the entitlement of the taxable transaction carried
out or issued by the said individual or the institution.
the Commissioner shall be informed within 14 days of such alternation by every
registered individual or institution.
(4) ( a) Every importer, producer or a seller marking a deduction of the Withholding
Turnover Tax as per the provisions of the Subsection (2) shall issue a voucher to
the individual or the institution engaged in the act of transfer with a copy to the
Commissioner regarding a transaction of goods transferred for the purpose of
sale, indicating —
(i) the date and place of transaction, and the category of goods ;
(ii) value of the transaction ;
(iii) name and address of that individual or institution ;
and
(iv) withholding Turnover Tax that can be imputed to that transaction.
(b) As per provisions of  Subsection (2), when a Withholding Turnover Tax has been
charged by a certain importer, producer or a seller, to whichever transaction the
Turnover Tax has been levied, the amount of the Withholding Turnover Tax retained
for the quarter in which the transaction has befallen shall be transferred to the
Commissioner within 14 days from the date of such transaction according to the
format ordered by the Commissioner along with copy of the voucher issued under
Paragraph (a).
(c) In the event of inclusion of an amount received or to be received by selling a
certain good that has been levied a Withholding Turnover Tax as per the Provisions
made earlier. In the Turnover of any individual or institution subjected to the
Turnover Tax, on production of the V oucher issued to him under Paragraph (a) to
Remittance
to the
Commissioner.
Set-off for the
Turnover Tax or
deduction from
the Turnover
Tax.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.04.2010
4A
Remitting the
Turnover Tax
from Agreed
payments to the
Commissioner.
Turnover Tax
deductions from
the Agreed
payments.
confirm that a Withholding Turnover Tax has been paid under the Subsection (2),
the individual or institution is entitled to deduct or to set-off for a due payment the
amount indicated in the said voucher as the Withholding Turnover Tax from the
Turnover Tax due to be paid for the said quarter by him.
(5) Whether entered into an agreement with regard to a transaction took place within the
Western Province Prior or later to the operation of this Statute ; at an instance a payment
has been made as per the said agreement in which himself or an institution that has
become a party of the said agreement, a sum equal to the Turnover Tax calculated on the
rate of Tax determined from time to time through orders published in the Gazette paper
by the Minister under subsection 7(1), shall be deducted as Withholding Turnover Tax
by every individual or institution that makes the said payment at the time of that payment
is made. However, if the total amount to be paid to accomplish that agreement does not
exceed Rupees Fifty thousand, such deduction shall not be made.
(6) ( a) As per the provisions of subsection (5), at the time of the deduction of the
Withholding Turnover Tax, a certificate stating—
(i) name of the person or institution, if the payment is made to certain such
person or institution ;
(ii) amount of the payment paid thus ;
(iii) deducted rate of tax and amount of tax ;
(iv) actual net amount paid ;
regarding that money should be issued to the certain individual or institution, if
that deduction is made on the payment made for certain individual or institution by
a certain individual or institution involved in deducting that Turnover Tax, with a
copy of the Commissioner.
(b) To whichever transaction the Withholding Turnover Tax has been deducted
by certain individual or institution that deducts Withholding Turnover Tax as
per provisions of the subsection (5), the Turnover Tax money retained in
lieu of that transaction shall be remitted to the Commissioner with the copy
of the certificate that should be issued as per Paragraph ( a) and according to the
format issued by the Commissioner within 14 days of such transaction.
(c) According to the provisions made earlier, in an instance of inclusion of
money deducted as Withholding Turnover Tax from Agreed payments of an
individual or institution subjected to Turnover Tax, the tax that can be levied on
the turnover per quarter from certain individual or institution subjected to
Turnover Tax, as per Sub-section (5) on the basis of forwarding to the
Commissioner the certificate issued under Paragraph ( a) denoting deduction
of the Withholding Turnover Tax, the individual or the institution has the right
to deduct the amount mentioned in that certificate as the Withholding Turnover
Tax from the tax levied as the Turnover Tax for the said quarter or to set-off for a
defaulted Turnover Tax.
Sending of a
certificate
regarding the
deducted
Turnover Tax to
the Commis-
sioner as
obligatory.
Setting-off or
deducting from
the Agreed
payments to the
Turnover Tax.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.04.2010
Amendment to
the Section 16 of
the Main Statute.
Possibility of
relating some
provisions of the
Main Statute.
(7) Under this Section, the provisions of this Statute related to the production of reports
that show up the turnover in each quarter, payment of taxes, levying a turnover tax,
taking a legal action in an event of default, imposition of penalties and repayment of
Turnover Taxes, with necessary changes shall be related similarly to the Withholding
Turnover Tax or production of reports, payment of taxes, levying a tax, taking legal
action in an event of default, imposition of penalties and repayment of turnover tax with
regard to the Withholding Turnover Tax.
(8) ( a) For all purposes of Sub-section (5) “Agreement” means ;
(i) an agreement related to supplement of goods of any nature ;
(ii) Sub Agreement related to any agreement mentioned in Sub-paragraph (i) ;
However an agreement reached with a service provider regarding provision
of his services shall not be interpreted as an agreement for the purposes of
this Section.
(b) For the purposes of this Section  “Importer” means  an individual or institution
that imports a certain food and transfer to a certain individual or institution for the
purpose of selling.
(c) For the purposes of this Section “Producer” means  an individual or institution
that transfer any good produced by him to certain individual or institution for the
purpose of selling.
(d) For the purposes of this Section “Seller” means an individual or institution that
acquires goods for the purpose of selling.
(e) For the purposes of this Section “Transfer” means  provision of goods by a certain
importer to a non-producer individual or institution, or provision of goods to a
certain individual or institution by a certain producer, or, provision of goods to
certain individual or institution by a seller for the purpose of selling.
4.  The Section 16 of the Main Statute is removed and is amended hereby by substitution of the
following Section :-
16. Where an Assessor does not accept a return furnished by any individual or institution
under Section 10 for any quarter and makes an assessment or additional assessment for
that quarter on that individual or the institution under Section 13 or Section 14, he
shall communicate to such individual or institution by registered letter sent through the
post his reasons for not accepting the return.
5. Subsection 34 (a) of the Main statute is removed and it is hereby amended by the substitution
of the following Sub-section :-
(a) fails to comply with the provisions of Section 10, Section 11, Section 30 or Section 31 or
6. Subsection 85(2) of the Main Statute amended by the Statute No. 02 of 2009 shall be
removed and it is hereby amended by the substitution of following Sub-section :-
Interpretations
for Section 11.
Assessor to give
reasons for not
accepting a
return.
Amendment to
the Sub-section
34 ( a) of the
Main Statute.
Amendment to
the Sub-section
85 (2) of the
Main Statute.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.04.2010
6A
Amendment to
the Sub Section
87(3) the Main
Statute.
Amendments to
the Sub Section
87(2) of the
Main Statute.
(2) The tax required to be paid by any notice under section 4 or under Paragraphs ( a),
(b)   and ( c) of Sub-section 11(i) or under Section 13 or 14 or Paragraph ( b) of
Sub-section   57(1) or under Paragraph (a) of Sub-section 98(5) or shall be paid before
the date specified on such notice and the tax not so paid shall be deemed  to be in
default.
7. Subsection 87(2) of the Main Statute amended by Statute No. 2 of 2009 shall be removed
and it is hereby amended by  the substitution of the following Sub Section :-
(2) If such defaulter has not appealed within the proper time against any assessment or
notice under Paragraph (a), (b), and (c) of Sub-section 11(1) of Section 13 or Section 14 or
Paragraph (b) of sub-section 57(1) or Paragraph ( a) of Sub-section 98(5) he may within
thirty days of the date of the notice issued under Sub Section (1) of this Section, make any
objection to the tax so charged and the Commissioner shall consider such objections
and give his decision there as which shall be final.
8. Subsection 87(3) of the Main Statute amended by Statute No. 2 of 2009 shall be removed and it
is hereby amended by the Substitution of the following Sub Section :-
(3) Notwithstanding whatever mentioned in this Section under Paragraph ( a), (b), and (c) of
Sub-section 11(1) or Section 13 or Section 14 or Paragraph ( b) of Sub-section 57(1) or
Paragraph (a) of Sub-section 98(5) and the payment of any tax specified in such notice is
held over on the order of the Commissioner and the appellant agrees, during the course of
the hearing of that appeal, that a certain sum is due or is likely to be due as tax in respect of
that notice, the Commissioner may, by notice in writing given to the appellant, direct the
appellant to pay such sum on or before such date as is specified in the notice.
9. Subsections (1) and (2) of the Section 102 of the Main Statute are removed and by
Substituting the following Sub-sections that section is amended hereby :-
(1) Except in the performance of his duties under this Statute, every person who is   or has been
employed in carrying out or in assisting any person in carrying out the permission of this
Statute shall preserve, and aid in preserving, secrecy with regard to all matters relating to
the officers of any person that may come to his knowledge in the performance of his duties
under this Statute, and shall not communicate any such matter to any person other than the
person to whom such matter relates or his authorized representative or to the Minister or
the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance or and officer properly authorized by the  Secretary
to the Ministry of Finance nor transfer or permit any person to have access to any records
in the possession, custody or control of the Commissioner.
(2) Every person employed in carrying out the provisions of this Statute shall before acting
under this Statute, take and subscribe before a Justice of the Peace or Commissioner of
Oaths an oath of  secrecy in the prescribed form and, the Minister and the Secretary to the
Ministry of Finance or an Officer properly authorized by the Secretary to the Ministry of
Finance shall before acting under this Statute, take and subscribe before a Justice of the
Peace or Commissioner of Oaths an oath of secrecy in the prescribed form.
10. Subsequent to the Sub-section 102(5) of the Main Statute, by inserting the following
new Subsection, that Section is amended hereby :-
(6) Whatever is mentioned in this Section, the Commissioner of  Revenue can impart
information as the Commissioner of Revenue feels as sufficient, regarding a certain matter
necessary to the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue related to the turnover included
Amendment to
the Sub Section
102(1) and (2)
of the Main
Statute.
Official
Secretary

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2010'04'23
PART IV (A) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 23.04.2010
Inerpretations.
in the wholesale or retail trade of a particular business conducted by certain individual
or institution.
11. The interpretation  of the word “value” of the Section 106 of the Main Statute, shall hereby be
amended by the inclusion of the following new interpretation :-
For the purposes of this Statute ; any tax calculated under the Section 3(1) is meant by
the “Turnover Tax” and also includes the withholding Turnover Tax levied under the
Section 11.
Any individual who changes completely the content or native of certain good in the way
of manufacturing or chemical process or any other way, is meant by a “producer”.
Any good, thing, agricultural or horticultural products are meant by “goods”.
“Secretary to the Finance Ministry” means the Secretary to the Ministry which purviews
the subject of Finance of the Western Province Provincial Council.
For the purposes of Sub-section 102(1) and (2), an officer of the Public Service skilled in
the relevant subject and authorized by the Secretary to the Ministry of Finance in
writing is meant by an “officer properly authorized”.
12. In case of inconsistency among the texts of Sinhala, Tamil and English of this Statute
Sinhala text shall prevail.
05-137.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.