

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1741
Page
Post - V acant  … … … 1738
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"126 – 2019 uehs ui 31 jeks isl=rdod – 2019'05'31
No. 2,126 –  FRiday ,  may 31, 2019
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st June, 2019 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th June, 2019.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2019.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1735-B 81527- 5,403 (05/2019)
Note.–  (i) Plastics and Rubber institute of Sri Lanka (incorporation) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of 
the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 24, 2019.
(ii) Shrama Vasana Fund ( amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of may 24, 2019.


<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1736
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a 
Sri Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2. Conditions of Service-General
 :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the 
official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  
proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the 
opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately 
after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal 
duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5
 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5
 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5
 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5
 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5
 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1737
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject
or a part thereof ;
(ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one
year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to declare 
everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i) Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper,
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
(viii) You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
(ix)
When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
(x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
(xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
(xii) If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations, 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1738
Posts – vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
aNuRadhaPuRa  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or widow/widower.
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and " attachment i" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
01.07.2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 08th may, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
anuradhapura thalawa Post of muslim marriages Registrar of 
Katiyawa area and Nuwaragam Palatha 
division
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district Secretariat, 
anuradhapura.
05–823

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1739
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of muslim of marriages
GaLLE  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the Posts of Registrar of muslim marriages Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out 
in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the muslim marriage divisions and should be entitled to properties 
and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. only muslim males can apply for these Posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age. (maximum age limit of the
retirement is 65).
04. applicants should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or widow/widower.
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of muslim marriage
and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from the notices 
exhibited in public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district Registries, 
Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule. 
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
01st of July, 2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 13th may, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat 
Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of muslim marriage Registrar of 
Galle district division of Gintota area
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Galle.
Galle Galle Four Gravets Post of muslim marriage Registrar of 
Galle district division of Kurunduwatta/
Gintota area
district Secretary/additional Registrar 
General, district Secretariat, Galle.
05–821

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1740
AmENDmENT Of CLOSING DATE Of APPLICATIONS fOR RECRuITmENT Of REGISTRAR 
Of mARRIAGE, bIRTh AND DEATh Of ThE REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
hambantota District
it is kindly notified that the closing date of application for recruitment for the post of Marriage, Birth and Death Registrar, 
for the division appearing in the following Schedule which was published by me in the Gazette No. 2103 of 21.12.2018 is 
extended as 28.06.2019.
01. Please note that all other details in the said Gazette notification remain unchanged.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla,
SchEduLE
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  Applications are 
called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
hambantota Weeraketiya Post of additional marriages Registrar of Giruwa 
Pattuwa North division (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, hambantota.
hambantota Lunugamwehera Post of Birth and death Registrar of mattala 
Walakada division and Post of marriage Registrar 
of magampattuwa division (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, hambantota.
05–819
–––––––––––––––––––
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTmENT
Posts of Registrar of births and Deaths and Registrar/Additional Registrar of 
marriages (kandyan/General)
GaLLE  diStRict
aPPLicatioNS are invited for the posts of Registrar of Births, deaths and Registrar/ additional Registrar marriages/
additional Registrar of marriages in the divisions set out in the Schedule hereto.
01. applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, deaths and marriage divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these posts.
03. applicants should be not less than 40 years and not more than 62 years of age.
04. applicant should be married and marriage should be aged more than 5 years and should not be a divorced
person or Widow/Widower.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1741
05. additional details of Village list/Grama Niladhari divisions within the related division of Birth, death and
Marriage and Education and other qualifications related to the subjected Division of the application could be obtained from 
the notices exhibited in Public places in the division such as district Secretariats, divisional Secretariats, Land and district 
Registries, Grama Niladhari's Office, Samurdhi Development Societies and Post Offices as given in the following Schedule.
06. Related applications and "attachment 1" including Village List and List of Grama Niladhari divisions can be
obtained by relevant district Secretariat (Government agents) or Land and district Registries or divisional Secretariats of 
the district. 
07. completed applications should be sent by Registered Post to the address given in the Schedule on or before
01st of July, 2019.
N. C. VithaNage,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s department,
No. 234/a3, denzil Kobbekaduwa mawatha,
Battaramulla.
on the day of 13th may, 2019.
SChedule
District Divisional  
Secretariat Division
Post and Division  for which  
Applications are called
Address to which Applications 
should be sent
Galle Niyagama
Post of Birth and death Registrar of mattaka 
division and Post of marriage Registrar of Bentara 
Walallawita Koralaya division (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Galle.
Galle Niyagama
Post of Birth and death Registrar of Pitigala 
division and Post of marriage Registrar of Bentara 
Walallawita Koralaya division (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Galle.
Galle tawalama
Post of Birth and death Registrar of tawalama 
division and Post of marriage Registrar of hinidum 
Pattuwa division (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Galle.
Galle Neluwa
Post of Birth and death Registrar of happitiya 
division and Post of marriage Registrar of hinidum 
Pattuwa division (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Galle.
Galle Gonapinuwala
Post of marriage Registrar of Gonapinuwala 
divisional Secretariat area (General)
district Secretary/additional 
Registrar General, district 
Secretariat, Galle.
05–820
Examinations, Results of Examinations & c.
OPEN COmPETITIvE ExAmINATION fOR RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of INSTRuCTOR
- GRADE 111 IN SuPERvISORy mANAGEmENT ASSISTANT IN NON TEChNOLOGICAL 
SERvICE CATEGORy IN SRI LANkA RAILWAy DEPARTmENT - 2019
aPPLicatioNS are invited from the qualified citizens in Sri Lanka for the Open Competitive Examination for the 
recruitment to the post of instructor -Grade 111 in Supervisory management assistant in Non technological Service 
category in Sri Lanka Railway department.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1742
01. By this Examination recruitment will be made to the
post of instructor - Grade iii.
Written examination:- the examination will consist of 
two (2) papers.
1. General Knowledge
2. intelligence test
02. it will be made 10 appointments. if there are
candidates with equal marks exceeding the number of 
vacancies for the last vacancy or the last vacancies, the 
filling of vacancies will be decided by the order of the Public 
Service 
commission as per the clause 80 in the minutes of 
Procedural Rules
03.Conditions of Service :-
3.1 a selected  candidate will be appointed to
the Grade 111 in the service on the general 
conditions governing appointments in the Public 
Service and on the terms and conditions set out 
in the recruitment procedure in Supervisory 
management assistant in Non technological 
Service category in Sri Lanka Railway 
department approved on 12.09.2017 by the 
Public Service commission No. PS c/ESt/04-
01-43/02/2016 and subject to any amendments
made or to be made hereafter to that procedure,
provisions in the establishment code and Financial 
Regulations and of the 
minutes of procedural
rules of the Public Service commission published 
in the Gazette extraordinary of the democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1589/30 of
20 th February 2009.
3.2 this post is permanent & pensionable. ( it should 
be liable to the ensuing policy decisions, taken by 
the Government.)
3.3 The First Efficiency bar Examination should 
be passed within 03 years from the date of 
appointment to the post of 
instructor -Grade 111 
in Sri Lanka Railway department.
3.4 It is required to achieve the proficiency of due 
official language within five years from the date 
of appointment in terms of the provisions of the 
public 
administration circular No.01/2014 and 
the consequent circulars.
3.5 the General manager in Railways is vested power 
to be cancelled the appointments of candidates 
who fail to report for duty on the due date & or 
refuse or evade to take up duties in a post or in an 
area they are appointed to .
04. Salary scale per month.– in terms of the schedule 1 of
the public administration circular 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016 
the Salary scale relevant to this post is Rs. 31,040 - 10 
x 445 -11 x 660 -10 x730 - 10x750- Rs. 57,550 (
mN -3 
-2016). your payments will be made with compliance to the
Provisions of that circular as per the schedule ii. in addition
to this, you are entitled to the allowances paid to the
government officers from time to time by the Government.
05.
eligibility:-
(a) i. Be a citizen in Sri Lanka.
 ii. have a sound moral character .
III. Be physically & mentally fit to serve in any part
in the island & to perform duties in the post.
(b) Educational Qualifications :-
 have been passed G. c.E.(ordinary Level) 
Examination with six subjects including credit 
passes for Sinhala/
tamil / English Language, 
Mathematics & for other two subjects in one 
sitting.
&
 Have been passed all the subjects (Except 
General test) in G. c.E.(advanced Level) 
Examination in one sitting.(It is sufficient of 
passing 03 subjects in one sitting under the old 
syllabus.)
(c)
  Professional Qualifications :
  have been followed National technological 
diploma or higher National Engineering 
diploma or a recognized technological Level 
Diploma with National V ocational Qualification 
(N.V .Q.) Level 5 or Level 6 in 
mechanical , 
Electric or mechatronic Field as determined 
by the tertiary & V ocational Educational 
commission.
(d)  experience :
  teaching experience of two years in a 
recognized technical institute & / or Practical 
experience will be considered as a special 
qualification.
 All the qualifications mentioned above as the 
requirements to recruit to the post should be 
completed in every aspect on the date ,notified 
by the Notice/ Gazette Notification.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1743
(e) Age : Minimum Limit: Not less than 18 years of age
 Maximum Limit :Not more than 45 years of age
06. Recruitment Procedure :
6.1  Written examination.– A written Examination will be held for the following subjects with two papers. It is as 
follows the subjects & the minimum marks required to pass each subject
No. Subject Marks Minimum marks required to pass Time
01 General Knowledge 100 40 01 hour
02 intelligence test 100 40 01 hour
 6.1.1 Syllabus of the written examination :
01. General Knowledge .
 this paper is designed to test the candidate’s awareness & understanding of the Social, Political
Geographical, Economic & Scientific knowledge in local & international level.
02. intelligence test:-.
 to assess analytical skill, capability of taking decisions, mathematical skill :–
6.2  Interview of evaluating eligibility.– a number equivalent to twice the number of vacancies shall be called for 
the interview for the evaluation of eligibility in order of merits from among those who have passed the written 
examination. it will not be recruited by waiting in a waiting list.
  a n interview of evaluating eligibility of candidates will be held by an interview board , appointed by the 
General manager in Railways. the highest marks ,scored in the interview is 100.
main heads of offering marks the maximum marks
Additional Educational Qualifications 10
Experience 40
English Language Proficiency & Computer Skill 10
the Performance in the interview 05
Additional Professional Qualifications 10
trade test 25
total 100
6.3  Its’ detailed scheme of offering marks is as below :
Major areas of offering marks Sub areas taken for consideration The Maximum of Marks
additional Educational 
Qualifications
G.c.E.a/L/diploma/degree/Post
Graduate/others
10 marks
Experience 05 marks & maximum 40 for per annum , 
exceeding a period of five years in the post of 
Railway 
technological management assistant 
(instructor) .(it will be applicable the service 
period in the post of instructor in Basic 
technological Service.)
40 marks

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1744
Major areas of offering marks Sub areas taken for consideration The Maximum of Marks
English Language Proficiency 
& computer Skill
ability to handle English Language & /or 
English Language diplomas-05 marks
up to maximum of 05 marks as per the 
followed computer diplomas.
10 marks
the Performance in the
interview
Personality & Facing to
interview
05 marks
additional Professional 
Qualification
additional Professional
diplomas &trainings, relevant to the 
profession
10 marks
the trade test ,held for testing lecturing skill.
Major Areas of offering Marks Marks, offered Minimum Marks, 
considered for selection
1 .Preparation of lecture notes 07 marks
10
2. Presentation 18 marks
1 .approach 03 marks
11. .Presentation of points in the lecture layout precisely 03 marks
111 .Style of presentation 05 marks
lv. Content of the subject 04 marks
v. time management 03 marks
Note : Facing the interview should not necessarily mean that it has been fulfilled requisite qualifications to 
offer the appointment.
6.4 t he list of the candidates who pass the examination will be published in the web site of the department of 
Railways.
07. examination Fee .– the examination fee is Rs. 1,000.00 . it should be paid before the closing date of receipt of
applications at any branch of Peoples’ Bank to be credited to account Number 176 - 100129027-313 of the General 
manager in Railways in mid city Branch of Peoples’ Bank the receipt, obtained should be pasted in the relevant cage of 
the application form using one of its edges. it will not be entertained money orders or stamps for the Examination Fee . this 
fee is non - refundable or replaced for other examination. it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate.
08. Method of Application :-
(a) The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification & should be prepared on A4
size paper using both sides. it should be specially noted that the application forms should be prepared that cages
1-0 to 2-12 appear on the first page of the paper, 3.0 to 5.0 appear on the second page & 6.0 to 7.0 appear on the
third page. For this purpose it can be used computerized/typed applications.
(b)
 t he application should be completed in the language medium in which the candidate intends to sit the
examination using own handwriting.. it is essential to mention the name of examination in English language
as well, in applications prepared in both Sinhala & tamil medium. as applications that do not comply with the 
specimen and that are not completed in every aspect shall be rejected without notice , it is the responsibility of 
the candidate to make sure that the application form complies with the specimen given in the examination notice 
or completed in every aspect & pasted the receipt obtained by making payments while completing relevant 
details in the application.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1745
(c) the completed application form for the
examination should be sent by registered post
to reach the address below before 30.06.2019.
the words “ open competitive Examination
for Recruitment to the instructor -Grade 111 in         
Sri Lanka Railway department -2019” should
be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner
of the envelope enclosing the application. 
any
application received after the closing date will
not be accepted.
General manager in Railways,
General Manager’s Office,
Sri Lanka Railway department,
P. B. 355,
 olcott mawatha,
 colombo 10.
(d) c andidate’s signature in the application form
& the admission card should have been attested
by a Principal of a government school, a Justice 
of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attorney-at-
law, Notary public, commissioned officer in the 
armed forces, an officer holding a gazette post 
in the police service or a staff officer holding 
permanent post whose annual initial salary is 
more than Rs.240,360.
(e)
 a ny application, which is not completed in
every aspect, is rejected. No complaint that an
application has been lost or delayed in post will 
be considered.
.(f)
 Receipt of application forms will not be 
acknowledged. a notice will be published 
in the newspape rs by the department of 
Examination as soon as admission cards are 
issued to applicants. if the admission card 
is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such 
an advertisement,steps should be taken to 
notify the 
department of Examinations in the 
manner specified in the advertisement. In such 
notification, it should be mentioned the title of 
the Examination, full name of the candidate, 
address & national identity card number. 
in 
case of applicants outside colombo, a letter of 
request furnishing a fax number to which the 
admission card should be sent is important to 
be forwarded to the 
department of Examination 
with the object of sending a photocopy of 
the admission card by fax. 
in the instance of 
such an inquiry it would be advisable to keep 
photocopies of the application form and receipt 
kept at your possession, receipt of registration.
(9)
 Admission to the examination :
(a) On the prior assumption that only the qualifiers
have applied as per the Gazette Notification,
the commissioner General of Examinations
will issue admission cards to the candidates
who have sent duly completed application
forms with the receipt of payment the due
examination fee on or before the closing date
of receipt of application forms. 
a candidate who
fails to produce his admission card will not be
permitted to sit for the examination.
(b) a candidate must sit for the Examination
at the examination hall assigned to him.
Every candidate presenting himself for the
examination firstly must produce his admission
card on which his signature has been attested,
to the supervisor of the Examination center on
the first day. A set of rules to be observed by
all candidates is published at the beginning of
Gazette. Candidates are subjected to rules &
regulations imposed by the General 
manager in
Railways on conducting the Examination. he is
liable to a Punishment imposed by the General
manager in Railways for breach of these rules.
(c) Attestation of Signature.– Signature of the
candidate in the application form & the
admission card should have been attested.
Note:- 
the issue of an admission card to a 
candidate does not mean that he/she has 
fulfilled the requisite qualifications to sit the 
examination or for an appointment.
(10) Identity of candidates.– 
a candidate will be required
to prove his identity at the Examination hall to the satisfaction 
of the supervisor for each subject he offers. For this purpose, 
any of the following documents will be accepted.
(a)
National identity card issued by the department of
Registration of persons,
(b) Valid passport.
(11) Penalty for furnishing false information.– it is
advisable to furnished accurate particulars according to the 
rules and regulations of this examination. if it is found to be 
disqualified, his candidature will be cancelled at any instant 
prior or during or after the examination.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1746
(12) any matter not provided in these regulations will be dealt with as determined by the General manager in
Railways.
(13) Scheme of Examination and medium of Examination :-
(a) the examination will be held in Sinhala tamil medium.
Note :- ( 1). a candidate must sit for all the papers of the examination in one & the same language
(2). a candidate will not be permitted to change the language medium of the examination indicated in 
the application
(14) In the event of inconsistency in the notification among Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, the Sinhala text
shall be prevailed.
 m. J. d. FerNaNdo,
General manager in Railways.
at Sri Lanka Railway department.
P. B.355, olcott mawatha,
colombo 10,
on 15th may, 2019.
aPPLicatioN FoRm
Office use only
opeN CompetitiVe examiNatioN For reCruitmeNt to the poSt oF iNStruCtor - grade iii iN SuperViSory maNagemeNt 
aSSiStaNt iN NoN teChNologiCal SerViCe Category iN Sri laNka railway departmeNt - 2019
1.0 medium :
Language medium of Examination
Sinhala - 1
 tamil  - 2
English - 3
(Write the relevant number in the cage) the application form should be in the Language medium in which the candidate 
intends to sit for the Examination.
2.0 Personal Particulars:
2.1 Full name (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––––––. 
(Ex.: hERath mudiyaNSELaGE SamaN KumaRa GuNaWaRdhaNa)
2.2 Last Name With initials: (Ex :GuNaWaRdhaNa , h.m.S.K) :–––––––––––––. 
2.3 Full Name: (in Sinhala/ tamil) :–––––––––––––.
2.4  Permanent address (in English Block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
[admission card will be posted to this address]
2.5 Private address (in Sinhala/ in tamil) :–––––––––––––.
 2.6 Gender:- [Please write the relevant number in the cage] 
     m ale - 0 
Female -1
 2.7 National identity card Number :

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1747
 2.8 c ivil status:- [Please write the relevant number in the cage]
 unmarried  - 1
 married  - 2
 2.9 Ethnicity (Sinhala - 1 , tamil - 2,  indian tamil - 3,  muslims - 4,  others - 5)
[Please write the relevant Number in the cage]
 2.10 date of Birth : year : month : date :
 2.11 Age as at the date, the requisite qualifications should be filled-30.06.2019 :
 y ears :–––––––––––––.   months  :–––––––––––––.  days :–––––––––––––. 
2.12 mobile Number :
3.0 Qualifications :-
 3.1  Educational Qualifications- G.C.E (0/L):-Year :–––––––––––––.  index No. :–––––––––––––. 
Subject Pass
1 ...................................... ....................... 
2  ...................................... ....................... 
3 ...................................... ....................... 
4 ...................................... ....................... 
5 ......................................  ....................... 
6 ...................................... ....................... 
7 ......................................  ....................... 
8 ...................................... ....................... 
9 ......................................  ....................... 
 10 ...................................... ....................... 
G.c.E(a/L) : y ear :–––––––––––––. index No. :–––––––––––––. 
1 ...................................... ....................... 
2  ...................................... ....................... 
3 ...................................... ....................... 
4 ...................................... ....................... 
 3.2  Professional Qualifications :–––––––––––––.
 3.3 Experience :–––––––––––––.
4.0 Payment of Examination Fee:
Examination Fee
1. Post Office at which the fee was paid :–––––––––––––.
2. a mount paid :–––––––––––––.
3. d ate of payment :–––––––––––––.
Paste only one edge of the receipt here, (keep a photocopy of the receipt with you)
5.0 declaration of the candidate :
i hereby declare that all the particulars furnished by me in this application are true & accurate to best of my 
knowledge &i have pasted the receipt, received by payment of the examination fee bearing the number ............................... 
& dated ......................................

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1748
i agree to follow the rules & regulations in this 
Examination & if it is found to be disqualified as per the 
Service minute recruitment inclusive of the Provisions on 
the Examination, i am liable to be cancelled my candidature 
prior or during or after the examination. Further, i am 
liable to follow the rules & regulations, imposed by the 
commissioner General of Examinations.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
date :–––––––––––––.
6.0 a ttestation of the candidate’s Signature (Be in terms of 
the 8(d) in the Gazette Notification.) :
i do hereby certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss 
............................ (Full Name) is personally known by me 
& the relevant examination fee has been paid & pasted the 
receipt & put his signature before me on ........................
–––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
date  :–––––––––––––.
Full Name of the attester  :–––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
address   :–––––––––––––.
(Must attest by an official seal)
7.0 Recommendation of the head of the department (only 
for the candidates who are in Government /Local 
Governments /Government co- operations.) :
i do hereby certify that the applicant mr./mrs./miss 
.............................. is serving as a ................................... 
in this ministry /department / institute & forward his /her 
application with my recommendation .he / she can / can not 
/be released from the service, if he/she has been selected.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the head of the department.
Name  :–––––––––––––.
designation  :–––––––––––––.
date  :–––––––––––––.
(Must attest by an official seal)
05–849
mINISTRy Of hOuSING, CONSTRuCTION 
AND CuLTuRAL AffAIRS
Department of Government factory - 2018 (2019)
oPEN comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN FoR 
REcRuitmENt to PoStS iN SuPERViSoRy 
maNaGEmENt aSSiStaNt tEchNoLoGicaL 
SERVicE catEGoRy iN thE dEPaRtmENt oF 
GoVERNmENt FactoRy - 2018 (2019)
aPPLicatioNS are called from the citizens of Sri Lanka 
for the open competitive Examination to be held in 
colombo by the commissioner General of Examination in 
September 2019 for the posts of department of Government 
Factory mentioned below. candidates who satisfy relevant 
qualifications can apply for both posts.
Post Number of vacancies
mechanical Superintendent 07
draughtsman 03
1. Salary :
1.1 Salary code No : mN 3-2016
1.2 Salary Scale : Rs. 31,040 - 10x 445 - 11 x 660 -
10x 730 - 10x 750 - Rs. 57,550.
 (Salaries will be paid in line with this salary scale 
from 01.01.2020 and provisions of Schedule ii of 
the Public administration circular 03/2016 will 
be applied to pay salaries until then.)
2. Grade to which recruitment is made : Grade iii
3. Educational Qualifications :
(A)  Should have passed three subjects in one
sitting at G. c.E. advanced Level Examination
under Science/ mathematics stream including
two subjects from Pure Mathematics/ Applied
mathematics/ combined mathematics and
Physics.
And
(B)  Shall have passed G. c.E. ordinary Level
Examination with six (06) subjects and with
credit Passes for Sinhala/ tamil/ English
language. Science and mathematics and one
other subject.
04. Professional Qualifications :
 i. National diploma in technology awarded by
university of moratuwa or hardy institute 
ampara

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1749
Or
 ii. National diploma in Engineering Science awarded by National apprentice and industrial training 
authority
Or
 iii. h igher National diploma in Engineering awarded by the ministry of Education and higher Education,
Or
 iV . d iploma in technology awarded by the open university of Sri Lanka
Or
V. Successful completion of Part i of mechanical Engineering Examination conducted by the institution of
Engineers Sri Lanka
Or
VI. Completion of Level 6 of National V ocational Qualification (NVQ 6) relevant to the field of job.
Or 
VII. Other technological qualifications recognized by Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission as
equivalent to above technological qualifications in each and every way after consulting the Ministry of
Higher Education and the institutions which award above certificates.
5. Physical Qualifications : Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the post and to
serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
6. Other Qualifications :
 i Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
 ii Should be of excellent character
III All the qualifications required for the recruitment for the post should be satisfied in each and every way as at the 
date mentioned in the notice calling for applications.
7. Age :
7.1 m inimum age Limit  : Not less than 18 years
7.2 Maximum Age Limit  : Not more than the age of 30 ( accordingly, only those whose birthdays are in between
28.06.2001 and 28.06.1989 can apply for the same)
8. Method of Recruitment  : Recruitment will be made on the results of a written examination and general interview.
Candidates, equal to the number of posts to be filled will be called for the general interview on the order of the merit out 
of those who pass all 03 subjects securing the pass marks of each , which is 40 or more for each subject at the written 
examination .
8.1 Written 
examination :
Subjects Duration Maximum
Marks
Pass Marks Number of 
Questions
Structure of the Question Papers
1 technical Knowledge 01 hour 100 40 10 Questions for Short answers
2 General Knowledge 01 hour 100 40 25 Questions for Short answers
3 intelligence test 01 hour 100 40 25 Questions for Short answers

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1750
8.2 Syllabus of the Written examination :
Name of the Question Paper Syllabus
technical Knowledge includes questions to test the level of technical knowledge of the candidates 
who hold diploma or equivalent qualifications in the fields of casting, 
mechanism, fitting, welding, motor mechanics, carpentry and maintenance
General Knowledge Geographical features, history, politics, sports and recent important events in Sri 
Lanka (including the achievements in international arenas)
important events in the world, geographical divisions, main cities, international 
organizations and their role 
intelligence test it is expected to assess the candidate's capacity for applying analytical skills, 
capacity for critical reasoning and interpretation on problems presented in 
numerical, linguistic and 
morphological contexts and interrelationship for other 
situations and the level of intelligence of the candidates on decision making.
8.3 General Interview:- No marks are allocated, only the qualifications will be verified.
9. The application should be in the form of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared by the
candidate himself on paper of size a-4 using both sides in the language medium he/she intends to appear for the examination. 
It should be specially noted that the application forms should be prepared that cages 01 to 09 appear on the first side of 
the paper and cages 10 to 13 appear on the other side of the paper and the rest to appear on third and fourth pages. 
the 
title of the examination appearing on the specimen should be indicated in English language as well, on both Sinhala and 
tamil application forms. the applications perfected thus should be sent by registered post on or before 28.06.2019 to reach 
“commissioner-General of Examinations, organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch, department of Examinations, 
Po. 1503, colombo. applications that do not comply with the specimen and that are not completed in every aspect shall be 
rejected without notice. Therefore the candidates should ensure that the application is in line with the specimen application, 
it has been perfected with accurate information and that the receipt obtained against the examination fee has been affixed 
in the cage so as not to be detached. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the application and the receipt of the payment.
10. the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English medium and the language medium of examination,
mentioned originally in the application, cannot be changed subsequently.
11. Applications not in line with the specimen application and the incomplete applications will be rejected without
any notice. Further, the receipt obtained against the examination fees paid, should be affixed to the relevant place of 
the applications form. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. incomplete applications and 
applications received after the closing date will be rejected without any notice. It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the 
filled application and receipt with the candidate.
11.1
 Punishments for providing false information - When the application is completing, the candidates should 
carefully provide accurate information. if it is revealed that any candidate is ineligible as per the rules and 
regulations of the examination, his/ her candidature can be cancelled at any moment before the examination, 
during the examination is held or after the examination.
12. the commissioner General of Examinations will issue admission cards to all candidates whose applications have
been received on or before the application closing date after paying the due examination fees, on the assumption that 
only those who have satisfied the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette notification have applied for the examination. A 
notification will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are issued to the candidates by the Department 
of Examinations. 
if the admission card is not received to any applicant even after 2 to 3 days of such advertisement, steps 
should be taken to notify the organizations and Foreign Examinations Branch of department of Examinations in the manner 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1751
specified in the advertisement When informing, the name 
of the examination applied for, full name, address and the 
Nic number of the candidate should be indicated correctly. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside colombo 
to fax a letter of request along with a fax number of the 
candidate to the department of Examinations through the 
fax number mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. Further, it would be advisable to keep 
a copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to 
payment of examination fee and the receipt of registration 
of the application to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations. the receipt of the applications 
will not be acknowledged. the post to which the applicant 
is applying should be clearly indicated on the top left-
hand corner of the envelope enclosing the application as 
"
open competitive Examination for Recruitment to the 
Supervisory management assistant - technological Service 
category at the department of Government Factory”.
12.1 the examination fee is Rs. 600.00. it should be 
paid before the closing date of applications at any 
Post Office/ Sub Post Office/ District Secretariat/
divisional Secretariat to be credited to Revenue 
head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner General 
of Examination. the receipt obtained in name of 
applicant should be pasted in the relevant cage of 
the application form so as not to be detached. No 
other fee is charged in addition to the examination 
fees. Stamps or money orders are not accepted as 
Examination fee. 
the fee is non- refundable and 
it will not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for 
this examination in favor of another examination. 
it is advisable to keep a photocopy of the receipt.
12.2 issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate has 
fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination 
or to be appointed to a post.
13. 
candidates should get their signature on the admission 
card attested in advance. an applicant applying through a 
certain institution should get his/her signature attested by 
the Head of the Institution or an officer authorized by him 
and the other applicants should get their signature in the 
application form attested by a Principal of a Government 
School/ retired officer, Grama Niladhari of the division, 
a Justice of Peace, 
commissioner of oaths, attomey-at-
Law, Notary Public, Commissioned Officer in the Armed 
Forces, staff grade Officer holding a permanent post in the 
Police Service or a staff grade Officer holding a permanent 
post in public service or provincial public services a chief 
incumbent of a Buddhist temple or chief Prelate or other 
clergy holding considerable position as the chief Priest of 
a religious place. applicants who are already serving at a 
public institution shouid forward the applications through 
his/her 
head of the institution.
14. any of the following documents shall be accepted
to prove the identity of the applicant at the examinations 
conducted by department of Examination of Sri Lanka.
 i.  National identity card,
 ii. Valid Passport,
 iii. Valid driving license.
 14.1 applicants should submit their admission card to 
the supervisor on the first day of the examination.
 14.2 candidates will be bound by the rules and 
regulations imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations for the purpose of 
conducting examinations and issuance of results 
and they shall be liable to be subjected to any 
punishment imposed by 
commissioner General 
of Examinations for violation of these rules and 
regulations. 
15. Results of the 
examination:- the results sheet of the
applicants who have secured not less than 40% of marks for 
each subject as mentioned in para 8.1 of this notification, 
prepared on the order of the merit will be, submitted to 
“
director General, department of Government Factory, 
Kolonnawa”. Results will be personally informed to all 
applicants or will be published on the website of 
department 
of Examinations www.results.exam.gov.lk.
16. in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala,
tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text shall prevail.
director General (Acting),
department of Government Factory.
department of Government Factory, Kolonnawa Road,
Kolonnawa,
15th 
may, 2019.

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1752
SpeCimeN appliCatioN 
rcfha l¾udka;Yd,d fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wëlaIK l<ukdlrK iyldr - ;dlaI‚l fiajd .Kfha ;k;=re i|yd n|jd 
.ekSfï újD; ;r. úNd.h - 2018 ^2019&
(opeN CompetitiVe examiNatioN For reCruitmeNt to poStS iN SuperViSory maNagemeNt aSSiStaNt - teChNologiCal 
SerViCe Category iN the departmeNt oF goVerNmeNt FaCtory 2018-(2019)
For Office use only
01. Language medium :
Sinhala - 2,    tamil - 3,    English - 4 (Write the relevant number in the cage.)
02. Post:
 mechanical Superintendent 
 draughtsman
Both posts
03. Name of the applicant :
3.1  Name with initials :
 i. i n Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––––––.
 ii. i n English (iN BLocK LEttERS) :––––––––––––––.
 Ex ( SiLVa , a.B.c.d.) 
3.2 Names denoted by the initials:
 i.  i n Sinhala/ tamil  :––––––––––––––.
 ii.  i n English (iN BLocK LEttERS) :––––––––––––––.
04. address to which admission card should be sent :
 i.  i n Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––––––.
 ii.  i n English (iN BLocK LEttERS) :––––––––––––––.
05. National identity card No. :
06. Sex : -  m ale - 0        (Write relevant number in the cage.)
Female - 1
07. a ddress :
 i. Personal address :––––––––––––––.
 ii. d istrict :––––––––––––––. 
08.  m obile No :-
09.  d ate of Birth : year :   month :                    date :
10. m arital Status :––––––––––––––.
11. c itizenship : By descent/ Registration :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1753
12. Educational Qualifications :
i. G.c.E (o/L) Examination :
 index No. :––––––––––––––.   year :––––––––––––––.   medium :––––––––––––––.
Passed subjects Grade Passed Subjects Grade
(1) ........................... ................. (6) ........................... .................
(2) ........................... ................. (7) ........................... .................
(3) ........................... ................. (8) ........................... .................
(4) ........................... ................. (9) ........................... .................
(5) ........................... ................. (10) ........................... .................
 ii.  G.c.E (a/L) Examination :
 index No. :––––––––––––––.   year :––––––––––––––.   medium :––––––––––––––.
Passed subjects Grade 
(1) ........................... ................. 
(2) ........................... ................. 
(3) ........................... ................. 
(4) ........................... ................. 
13. Description on Professional Qualifications :
Serial No Name of the Course Institution Duration Results
01.
02.
03.
14. Particulars of the Post held at present, if any :
 i. Post and Grade :––––––––––––––. 
 ii. d ate of appointment :––––––––––––––. 
 iii. i nstitution :––––––––––––––. 
 iV . Whether a pensionable post :––––––––––––––.
Statement of the Applicant
i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before 
appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. i hereby agree to abide by all the 
conditions imposed by the commissioner General of Examination for the purpose of holding this examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––––. 
15. Particulars on the Payment of Examination Fees :
15.1 Examination Fee paid, Rs. (in words) :––––––––––––––.
15.2 Receipt No. :––––––––––––––. 
15.3 Issued Office :––––––––––––––. 
15.4 d ate :––––––––––––––. 
One edge of the Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached. Please keep a
photocopy of the receipt of the payment.

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1754
16. attestation of applicant’s Signature :
i hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
................... who submits this application is known to me 
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature in my 
presence on ...................................... and further the officer 
has paid the prescribed examination fee and pasted the 
receipt on the applications.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the attester.
date :––––––––––––––. 
Name of the attester :––––––––––––––. 
Post :––––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––––. 
Official Stamp :––––––––––––––. 
17. Certification of the Head of the Department if the
applicant is an employee of Public Service/ Provincial
Public Service:
i hereby certify that mr/ mrs/ miss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.................... is a permanent employee at this ministry/ 
department and he/she can/ cannot be released from service 
if he/she is selected to this post.
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the 
  head of the department.
date :––––––––––––––. 
05–857
–––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of hOuSING, CONSTRuCTION 
AND CuLTuRAL AffAIRS
Department of Government factory - 2018 (2019)
LimitEd comPEtitiVE ExamiNatioN FoR 
REcRuitmENt to PoStS iN SuPERViSoRy 
maNaGEmENt aSSiStaNt -tEchNoLoGicaL 
SERVicE catEGoRy iN thE dEPaRtmENt oF 
GoVERNmENt FactoRy- 2018(2019)
aPPLicatioNS are called by the commissioner General 
of Examinations for the Limited competitive Examination 
due to be held in colombo in September 2019, to fill the 
vacancies in the post of mechanical Superintendent of the 
department of Government Factory.
Post Number of vacancies
mechanical Superintendent 04
1. Salary:
1.1 Salary code No. : mN 3-2016
 1.2 Salary Scale : Rs. 31,040 - 10x 445 - 11x 660 - 
10x 730 - 10x 750 - Rs. 57,550.
 (Salaries will be paid in line with this salary 
scale 
from 01.01.2020 and provisions of 
Schedule ii of the Public administration 
circular 03/2016 will be applied to pay 
salaries until then.)
2. Grade to which recruitment is made : Grade iii 
3. Educational Qualifications : Shall have passed G.c.E. 
(O/L) examination with six (06) subjects in not more than 
two sittings with credit passes to Sinhala/ 
tamil/ English 
language, Science, mathematics
4. Professional Qualification.– Should have completed at
least 05 years of active and satisfactory period of service in a 
permanent departmental post in a primary or higher, service 
category 
and
 i . National diploma in technology awarded by 
university of moratuwa or hardy institute 
ampara
Or
 ii . National diploma in Engineering Science 
awarded by National apprentice and industrial 
training authority
Or
 iii . higher National diploma in Engineering 
awarded by the ministry of Education and 
higher Education.
Or
 i V . diploma in technology awarded by the open 
university of Sri Lanka
Or
V. Successful completion of Part i of mechanical
Engineering Examination conducted by the
institution of Engineers Sri Lanka
Or
Vi. completion of Level 6 of National V ocational
Qualification (NVQ 6) relevant to the field of job.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1755
Or
Vii. Other technological qualifications recognized by Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission as equivalent to
above technological qualifications in each and every way after consulting the Ministry of Higher Education and
the institutions which award above certificates.
5. Physical Qualifications : Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit to perform the duties of the post and to
serve in any part of Sri Lanka.
6. Other Qualifications :
I. Being a departmental officer in a Primary skilled or a higher category of a field relevant to the post with an
active and satisfactory period of 05 years
 ii.  Should have completed at least a 05 years of continuous and satisfactory period of service in a permanent 
appointment in the Public -Service immediately preceding the due date and the same shall be certified by the 
head of the department.
III. The officer is considered as qualified in each and every way to appear at the written examination for the
recruitment to the service, only if he has satisfied all the qualifications as at the date mentioned in the notification
for calling for applications.
7. Method of Recruitment. – Departmental employees who have satisfied above qualifications will be included in to
training grade on the results of a departmental examination. 
having successfully completed the training period of one year, 
the officers will be appointed to Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service after securing pass marks at the examination 
held by the 
department and after an interview.
8. 
8.1 Written examination :
Subject No. Subjects Duration Maximum Marks Pass Marks
1 technical Knowledge 01 hour 100 40
2 General Knowledge 01 hour 100 40
3 intelligence test 01 hour 100 40
8.2  Syllabus of the Written examination : 
Name of the Question 
Paper
Syllabus
1. technical Knowledge includes questions to test the‘‘level ' of technical knowledge of the candidates who 
hold diplomas or equivalent qualifications in the fields of casting, mechanism, fitting, 
motor mechanics, carpentry and maintenance.
2. General Knowledge Geographical features, history, politics, sports and recent important events in Sri Lanka 
(including the achievements in international arenas)
important events in the world, geographical divisions, main cities, international 
organizations and their role
3. intelligence test it is expected to assess the candidate’s capacity for applying analytical skills, capacity 
for critical  reasoning and interpretation on problems presented in numerical, linguistic 
and 
morphological contexts and interrelationship for other situations and the level of 
intelligence of the candidates on decision making.

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1756
8.3  General Interview. - No marks are allocated, 
only the qualifications will be verified.
9. the application should be in the form of the specimen
appended to this notification and should be prepared by the 
candidate himself on paper of size a-4 using both sides 
in the language medium he/she intends to appear for the 
examination. 
it should be specially noted that the application 
forms should be prepared that cages 01 to 08 appear on 
the first side of the paper and cages 09 to 12 appear on 
the other side of the paper and the rest to appear on third 
and fourth pages. 
the title of the examinations appearing 
on the specimen should be indicated in English language 
as well, on both Sinhala and 
tamil application forms. the 
applications perfected thus should be sent by registered post 
on or before 28.06.2019 to reach “
commissioner-General 
of Examinations, organizations and Foreign Examinations 
Branch, department of Examinations, P o.1503, colombo. 
applications that do not comply with the specimen and that 
are not completed in every aspect shall be rejected without 
notice. 
therefore, the candidates should ensure that the 
application is in line with the specimen application, it has 
been perfected with accurate information and that the receipt 
obtained against the examination fee has been affixed in 
the cage so as not to be detached. 
it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the application and the receipt of the payment.
10. the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and
English medium and the language medium of examination, 
mentioned originally in the application, cannot be changed 
subsequently.
11.
 the examination fee is Rs. 600.00. it should be paid
before the closing date of applications at any Post Office/ Sub 
Post Office/ District Secretariat/Divisional Secretariat to be 
credited to Revenue head 20-03-02-13 of the commissioner 
General of Examination. the receipt obtained should be 
pasted in the relevant cage of the application form so as not 
to be detached. Stamps or money orders are not accepted 
as Examination fee. 
the fee is non- refundable and it will 
not be allowed to transfer the fee paid for this examination 
in favor of another examination. 
it is advisable to keep a 
photocopy of the receipt.
12. 12.1 applications not in line with the specimen
application, incomplete applications and 
applications received after the closing date will 
be rejected without any notice. It is advisable to 
keep a photocopy of the application perfected. 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
will issue admission cards to all candidates 
whose applications have been received on 
or before the application closing date after 
paying the due examination fees, on the 
assumption that only those who have satisfied 
the qualifications mentioned in the Gazette 
notification have applied for the examinations. 
A notification will be published in newspapers 
as soon as the admission cards are issued to the 
candidates by the 
department of examinations. 
if the admission card is not received to any 
applicant even after 2 to 3 days of such 
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify 
the 
organizations and Foreign Examinations 
Branch of department of Examinations in 
the manner specified in the advertisement. 
When informing, the name of the examination 
applied for, full name, address and the N
ic 
number of the candidate should be indicated. 
it would be advisable for candidates outside 
colombo to fax a letter of request along with a 
fax number of the candidate to the department 
of Examinations through the fax number 
mentioning the notification for sending a copy 
of the admission. Further, it would be advisable 
to keep a copy of the application, copy of the 
receipt relevant to payment of examination fee 
and the receipt of registration of the application 
to prove any information requested by the 
department of Examinations.
12.2 issuance of an admission card to an applicant 
does not necessarily mean that the candidate 
has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the 
examination or to be appointed to a post.
13.
13.1 Receipt of applications will not be
acknowledged. the post to which the applicant 
is applying should be clearly indicated on 
the top left-hand corner of the envelope 
enclosing the application as "Recruitment 
to the Supervisory 
management assistant - 
technological Services at the department of 
Government Factory”.
13.2 applicants should submit their admission 
card to the supervisor on the first day of the 
examination.
14. 
attesting the Signature :
• Applications should be forwarded through the
head of the department and the due examination 
fee should, be paid and the receipt obtained thus
should be affixed to the application.

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1757
• Any of the following documents shall be accepted to prove the identity of the applicant at the examinations
conducted by department of Examination of Sri Lanka.
 i . National identity card
 ii . Valid Passport
 iii . Valid driving license
14.1 candidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations for the purpose of conducting examinations and issuance of results and they shall be liable to 
be subjected to any punishment imposed by Commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these 
rules and regulations.
14.2
 Punishments for providing false information - When the application is completing, the candidates should 
carefully provide accurate information. if it is revealed that any candidate is ineligible as per this rules and 
regulations of the examination, his/ her candidature can be cancelled at any moment before the examination, 
during the examination is held or after the examination.
 14.3
 Results of the examination.– the results sheet of the applicants who have secured not less than 40% of 
marks for each subject, prepared on the order of the merit will be submitted to “ Director General, Depart-
ment of Government Factory, Kolonnawa”. Results will be personally informed to all applicants or will be 
published on the website of 
department of Examinations www.resuls.exam.gov.lk
14.4 in the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala, tamil and English text of this Gazette Notification, the 
Sinhala text will prevail.
 director General (Acting),
 department of Government Factory.
department of Government Factory, Kolonnawa Road,
Kolonnawa,
15th may, 2019.
SpeCimeN appliCatioN 
rcfha l¾udka;Yd,d fomd¾;fïka;=fõ wëlaIK l<ukdlrK iyldr - ;dlaI‚l fiajd .Kfha hdka;%sl wêldß 
;k;=r i|yd n|jd .ekSfï iSñ; ;r. úNd.h - 2018^2019&
(limited CompetitiVe examiNatioN For reCruitmeNt to the poSt oF meChaNiCal SuperiNteNdeNt iN SuperViSory maNage-
meNt aSSiStaNt - teChNologiCal SerViCe Category iN the departmeNt oF goVerNmeNt FaCtory 2018-(2019)
For Office use only
01. Language medium :
Sinhala - 2, tamil - 3, English - 4 (Write the relevant number in the cage.)
02.  Name of the applicant :
2.1  Name with initials :
 i. i n Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
–––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 ii. i n English (iN BLocK LEttERS) :––––––––––––––.
 Ex ( SiLVa , a.B.c.d.) 
2.2 Names denoted by the initials:
 i.  i n Sinhala/ tamil  :––––––––––––––.
 ii.  i n English (iN BLocK LEttERS) :––––––––––––––.

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1758
03. address to which admission card should be sent :
 i.  i n Sinhala/ tamil :––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 ii.  i n English (iN BLocK LEttERS) :––––––––––––––.
04. National identity card :
05. Sex : -   (Write relevant number in the cage.)
 male      -  0 
Female  -  1
06. a ddress :
 i. Personal address :––––––––––––––.
 ii. d istrict :––––––––––––––. 
07.  t elephone No : Personal  :––––––––––––––.
08.  d ate of Birth : year :   month :                    date :
09. m arital Status :––––––––––––––.
10. Educational Qualifications :
i. G.c.E (o/L) Examination :
 index No. :––––––––––––––.   year :––––––––––––––.   medium :––––––––––––––.
Passed subjects Grade Passed Subjects Grade
(1) ........................... ................. (6) ........................... .................
(2) ........................... ................. (7) ........................... .................
(3) ........................... ................. (8) ........................... .................
(4) ........................... ................. (9) ........................... .................
(5) ........................... ................. (10) ........................... .................
 ii.  G.c.E (a/L) Examination :
 index No. :––––––––––––––.   year :––––––––––––––.   medium :––––––––––––––.
Passed subjects Grade 
(1) ........................... ................. 
(2) ........................... ................. 
(3) ........................... ................. 
(4) ........................... ................. 
11. Description on Professional Qualifications :
Serial No Name of the Course Institution Duration Results
01.
02.
03.
12. Other Qualifications : ––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––
 –––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––––– 
13. Particulars of the Post held at present, if any :
 i. Post and Grade :––––––––––––––. 
 ii. d ate of appointment :––––––––––––––. 

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1759
 iii . i nstitution :––––––––––––––. 
 iV . Whether a pensionable post :––––––––––––––.
Statement of the Applicant
i solemnly declare that particulars furnished by me in this application are true and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge. I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are found to be false I am liable to disqualification before 
appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy is detected after appointment. i hereby agree to abide by all the 
conditions imposed by the commissioner General of Examination for the purpose of holding this examination.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of the applicant.
date :––––––––––––––. 
14. Particulars on the Payment of Examination Fees :
14.1 Examination Fee paid, Rs. (in words) :––––––––––––––.
14.2 Receipt No. :––––––––––––––. 
14.3 Issued Office :––––––––––––––. 
14.4 d ate :––––––––––––––. 
One edge of the Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached. Keep a
photocopy of the receipt of the payment.
15. Certificate of the Head of the Institution :
 15.1 i  hereby certify that mr./mrs./miss .............................................. who submits this application is serving at this 
Department from ................................ and has completed a satisfactory service period of five years immediately 
preceding .................................... and that the particulars given in this application are correct as per the records at 
this Department. Further the officer has/has not completed the qualifications mentioned in the relevant notice and 
the receipt obtained after paying the examinaton fee has been affixed to this application. 
 15.2 c andidates shall be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the commissioner General of Examinations 
for the purpose of conducting examinations and issuance of results and they shall be liable to be subjected to any 
punishment imposed by 
commissioner General of Examinations for violation of these rules and regulations. 
––––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the  Head of the Department.
(Official Stamp)
date :––––––––––––––. 
Name of the attester :––––––––––––––. 
Post :––––––––––––––. 
address :––––––––––––––. 
Official Stamp :––––––––––––––. 
05–856

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2019'05'31
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 31.05.2019
1760
PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  oF  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
1ST EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION Of 
ThE DEvELOPmENT OffICERS' 
SERvICE - 2015(II) 2019
cLoSiNG date of the applications mentioned in paragraph 
05 of the exam Gazette notification "1st Efficiency Bar 
Examination of the Development Officers' Service - 
2015(II) 2019" published in the Gazette of Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2,121 dated 26.04.2019 
will be extended to 24.06.2019.
02.
the candidates who have already applied are hereby
informed not to make fresh application in response to this 
revision. 
03.
the other provisions laid down in the Gazette shall
remain effective. 
K. V . P. m. J. gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
ministry of Public administration and 
 disaster management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07, 
23rd of may, 2019.
05–973
2ND EffICIENCy bAR ExAmINATION Of 
ThE DEvELOPmENT OffICERS' 
SERvICE - 2017(II) 2019
cLoSiNG date of the applications mentioned in paragraph 
05 of the exam Gazette notification "2nd Efficiency Bar 
Examination of the Development Officers' Service - 
2017(II) 2019" published in the Gazette of 
democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 2,121 dated 26.04.2019 
will be extended to 24.06.2019.
02.
the candidates who have already applied are hereby
informed not to make fresh application in response to this 
revision. 
03.
the other provisions laid down in the Gazette shall
remain effective. 
K. V . P. m. J. gamage,
 director General of combined Services.
ministry of Public administration and 
 disaster management, 
independence Square, 
colombo 07, 
23rd of may, 2019.
05–974