

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 543
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 540
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"011 – 2017 ud¾;= ui 17 jeks isl=rdod – 2017'03'17
No. 2,011 –  fRiday ,  maRch  17, 2017
ImPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  Of  NOTICES 
fOR  PubLICATION  IN  ThE  WEEkLy  “GAzETTE”
attENtioN is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. 
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 07th april, 2017 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 24th  march, 2017.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or 
other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
 
GanGani  LiyanaGe,
 Government Printer (Acting)
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2017.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
N. B.– Part ii of the Gazette No. 2010 of 10.03.2017 was not published.
Note.–   (i) Association of Traditional Officials of the All Island Historical Devala (Incorporation) Bill was published as a 
supplement to the Part ii of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of february 23, 2017. 
 (ii) code of criminal Procedure (Special Provisions) (amendment) Bill was published as a supplement to the Part ii of the 
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of march 03, 2017. 
537-B 81152- 5,403(03/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
538
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by 
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in 
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This 
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from a 
date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts 
in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the 
highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or 
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by 
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding 
permanent appointments:
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of 
the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of 
Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from 
time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test 
in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  
Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) 
within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given 
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in 
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the 
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be 
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2 years 
immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he performs 
his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the 
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of 
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public 
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the 
new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve 
in any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts 
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from 
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government 
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts 
on Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The 
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal 
to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  
of the Financial Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability 
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the 
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member 
of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public 
Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these 
Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity 
payable under these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  
the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, 
if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview 
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be 
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect 
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is 
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the 
selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated 
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
539
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of 
the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one 
subject or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of 
one year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in 
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the 
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and 
leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed 
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the 
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the 
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the paper. 
Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable 
to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings 
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a 
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for 
a candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be 
obtained from the supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate 
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts 
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any 
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with 
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has 
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed 
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an 
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable 
to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with 
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, 
sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to 
him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the 
candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or 
any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should 
be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable 
act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall 
be considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the 
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or 
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer 
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping 
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate 
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the 
sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should 
not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at the 
Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of 
its location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for 
the subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is 
liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents 
into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the 
Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce them before the 
Examination concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger 
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is 
different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it 
should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other 
than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering 
questions. Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in 
good condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with 
care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you 
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin 
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. 
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head 
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the 
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to 
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details 
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the 
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should 
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral 
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, 
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order 
you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie 
them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand 
corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the 
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is 
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your 
being treated as an absente e for the paper. On no account should your 
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
540
Posts – vacant
JuDICIAL  SERvICE  COmmISSION 
Post of Chairman/Administrative Appeals Tribunal
thE Judicial Service commission has decided to call for applications for the post of chairman, administrative appeals 
Tribunal to reach this office on or before 17.04.2017.
02. eligibility.– over 10 years of experience in the legal profession. 
03. the allowances paid to a chairman are as follows :
 monthly Salary  - Rs. 65,000
 fuel allowance - Rs. 26,325 (monthly)
 G. m. W. P. Jayathilake, 
 Acting Secretary, 
 Judicial Service commission. 
Judicial Service commission Secretariat, 
colombo 12, 
01st march, 2017. 
03–612
––––––––––––––––––
mINISTRy Of PORTS AND ShIPPING
merchant Shipping Secretariat
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following posts, from the citizens of Sri Lanka who possess the necessary qualifications 
as indicated in this Notification. 
Posts Class No. of Posts
assistant Government Ship Survey 
(Engineer)
class ii 01
assistant Government Ship Survey 
(deck)
class ii 01
1. Qualifications and experience : 
Post Education Qualifications Professional Qualifications Experience
assistant Government Ship 
Survey (Engineer)
applicants should 
possess a certificate of 
competency as EWKo 
(Unlimited)
Not applicable 2 years' experience having 
served as a Watch Keeping 
Officer (Engineer) of a trading 
vessel having a capacity of 
more than 300 KW.
assistant Government Ship 
Survey (deck)
applicants should 
possess a certificate of 
competency as NWKo 
(Unlimited)
Not applicable 2 years' experience having 
served as a Watch Keeping 
Officer (Deck) of a trading 
vessel having a capacity of 
more than 3,000 Gt

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
541
2. Physical fitness.- All candidates shall have the physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of the island and 
to perform the duties of the post. Selected candidates will be called upon to undergo a medical examination. 
3. Other Qualifications :
 (i) Be a citizen of Sri Lanka, 
 (ii) have a sound moral character, 
 (iii) Have satisfied all the requirements for recruitment to the post, on the prescribed date as per the 
notification/Gazette. 
4. Age.- Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age. (the upper age limit will not be 
applicable to those who are already in the Public Service). 
5. Salary Scale.- Rs. 34,605 -10x660 -11x750 - 15x930 - Rs. 63,460.
6. Method of Recruitment.-  marks will be granted by the structured interview as per the marking scheme 
mentioned in below. Vacancies will be filled in order of the merit obtained by the applicant at the interview. 
 Areas to be checked and the marks allotted Maximum Marks
01. Additional Educational Qualifications 30
02. Professional Qualifications  25
03. Additional Experience (In addition to the minimum recruitment qualifications) 20
04. English Language Proficiency  10
05. computer literacy  10
06. Skills at the interview  05
  100
 (i) above posts are permanent and pensionable. contributions must be made to 'Widows and orphans' 
Pension fund. 
7. Method of Applying : 
 (i) Application which should be in the form appended to this notification should be sent by registered post 
to reach the director General, merchant Shipping Secretariat, 1st floor, Bristol Building, No. 43-89, 
york Street, colombo 01 on or before 20.04.2017. the envelope enclosing the application should be 
marked with the relevant post on the left hand top corner. 
 (ii) Applications from officers in the public service must be forwarded through the Heads of their 
departments. 
In this notification, if there is any conflict between the English, Sinhala and Tamil texts, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail. 
 director General of merchant Shipping, 
 merchant Shipping Secretariat.
ministry of Ports and Shipping, 
1st floor, Bristol Building, 
No. 43-89, york Street, 
colombo 01. 
17th march, 2017. 

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
542
SPEcimEN  aPPLicatioN 
(For Office use only)
application for the post of assistant government ship survey (engine)/(Deck) 
in the merchant shipping secretariat
01. Name of the applicant :–––––––––––––.
 Name with initials at the end :–––––––––––––.
 (in English block capitals)
 full Name (in English block capitals) :–––––––––––––.
 Full Name (in Sinhala/Tamil) :–––––––––––––.
02. address and telephone No. : 
 (a) Official Address :–––––––––––––.
   t elephone No. :–––––––––––––.
 (b) Private address :–––––––––––––.
   t elephone No. :–––––––––––––.
   mobile telephone No. :–––––––––––––.
03. date of Birth :–––––––––––––.
   y ear :–––––––––––––. month :–––––––––––––. date :–––––––––––––.
04. age as at the closing date of applications :–––––––––––––.
   y ears :–––––––––––––. months :–––––––––––––. days :–––––––––––––.
05. National identity card No. :–––––––––––––.
06. Sex :–––––––––––––.
07. Civil Status (Married/unmarried/Widowed) :–––––––––––––.
08. Education qualification and Additional Qualification :
Qualification Year obtained 
Qualification
Subject Stream Grade Name of 
Institution
Remarks
09. Professional Qualification : 
Qualification Year obtained 
Qualification
Subject Stream Grade Name of Institution
10. Particulars of Experience : 
Institution Served Post Function of the Post in brief Period of Service
11. English Language Proficiency : 
 (a) degree :–––––––––––––.
 (b) diploma :–––––––––––––.
 (c) Certificate Course :–––––––––––––.
12. Proficiency in Computer Literacy : 
  (a) degree :–––––––––––––.
 (b) diploma :–––––––––––––.
 (c) Certificate Course :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
543
13. have you been convicted for any offence by a court :
i do hereby certify that the information furnished by me in this application is true and accurate. i am aware that 
if any information furnished by me in this application is found to be false or inaccurate before, i am selected, i am liable 
to disqualify for selection and i will be subject to relevant course of action if such revelation is made after the recruitment. 
 –––––––––––––––,
 Signature of applicant. 
date :––––––––––––.
03-831
PubLIC SERvICE COmmISSION
ministry of foreign Affairs
oPEN comPEtitiVE EXamiNatioN foR
REcRUitmENt to GRadE iii of thE 
SRi LaNKa foREiGN SERVicE – 2016 (2017)
aPPLicatioNS are hereby called to fill 25 vacancies in 
Grade iii of the Sri Lanka foreign Service (hereinafter 
referred to as the “Service”) from candidates who are 
eligible in terms of the Section 02 of this notification. 
01.  Method of recruitment. – The qualified candidates 
in terms of this notification are required to sit for a written 
examination and a structured interview and will be selected 
for appointment based on the total aggregate of marks 
obtained at the written examination and the viva-voce 
taken together, by the Public Service commission. 
02.  Required Qualifications :
 i. Educational/Professional qualifications :
  a  degree obtained from;
	 •	 a university recognized by the University 
Grants commission of Sri Lanka (UGc) ;
  or
	 •	 an institution, a university recognized by the 
UGc as an institution of degree awarding ;
  or
	 •	 a foreign University recognized by the UGc
  (documentary proof to this effect issued 
by the UGc should be submitted by the 
candidate at the time of viva voce).
 ii. Physical Qualifications :
  all candidates should be physically and mentally 
fit for serving in Sri Lanka or any part of the 
world and perform duties in the post.
 iii.  Other:
 (a) Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka. (those 
who have dual citizenship should rescind 
their foreign nationality in the event they 
are selected to Sri Lanka foreign Service 
and should not acquire the citizenship 
of any other country during the period of 
service.)
 (b) have an excellent moral character.
 (c) Have fulfilled all the requirements to be 
recruited to the post by the closing date of 
applications.
Note:  
 (i) No person ordained in any religious 
order shall be eligible to apply or sit 
for this examination.
 (ii) No person shall be eligible to sit for 
this examination for more than three 
occasions.
 (iii) All the necessary qualifications 
should have been completed on the 
date as stated in the relevant Gazette  
Notification. 
03. Terms of engagement and Conditions of Service :
 (i) the selected candidates for the service shall 
be subjected to the terms and conditions set 
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.,

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
544
out in the Sri Lanka foreign Service minute of 
2016.12.06 and amendments already made or 
those that may be made hereafter, in terms of 
the general conditions governing appointments 
in the Public Service.
 (ii) this post is permanent and  subjected to policy 
decisions taken by the Government in future 
with regard to the Pension Scheme.
 (iii) the appointment shall be subjected to a 03 
years probation period. following recruitment 
to Grade iii of the Sri Lanka foreign Service, 
the officer is required to pass the 1
st Efficiency 
Bar Examination within 03 years in terms of the 
Service minute.
 (iv) in terms of the Public administration circular 
No. 01/2014 and amendments thereto, the 
officers who are recruited to the Public Service 
should gain proficiency in an official language 
other than the language he/she was recruited, 
within 05 years after recruitment to the service.  
The officers who are recruited to the service 
in a language other than the official languages 
are required to fulfil the official language 
requirement during the probation period. 
 (v) the appointment is subjected to the Procedural 
Rules of the Public Service commission, 
Establishments code of the democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Government 
financial Regulations as well as the other 
departmental orders. 
 (vi) the Public Service commission reserves the 
right to dismiss any candidate from the service 
if it is established that he /she had not fulfilled 
any of the required qualifications or conditions 
stipulated in this Gazette Notification or Sri 
Lanka foreign Service minute, or that any fact 
presented incorrect, even after the recruitment 
to the post.
04. Age limit.– have attained the age of 22 years and 
have not attained the age of 30 years on the closing date of 
applications. (accordingly only those who are born on or 
before 17.04.1995 and on or after 17.04.1987 are eligible 
to apply).
candidates who are already in the Public Service, 
should not have attained the age of 35 years on the closing 
date of applications, (accordingly only those who are born 
on or after 17.04.1982 are eligible to apply) and should 
possess a satisfactory record of service.
 Note:
 (i) for the purpose of clause 04 above, 
a candidate in the Public Service 
means (as defined in Chapter I of the 
Establishments Code), any officer who 
has been confirmed in the Public Service 
or in the Provincial Public Service by 
the closing date of applications.
 (ii) a  candidate in the Public Service will 
not be eligible to sit for this examination 
unless he/she has had a satisfactory 
record of service during the 05 years 
immediately preceding the closing date 
of application or if the period of service 
is less than 05 years, during the total 
period of service. 
 (iii) a  member of the Public Service will be 
considered to have a satisfactory record 
of service only if he/she has earned on 
the due date, all increments within the 
05 years immediately preceding the 
closing date of application or if the 
period of service is less than 05 years 
during the total period of his/her service 
in the respective institution, and has not 
suffered any punishment whatsoever 
(except a warning) in respect of any 
offences committed during the period 
as mentioned above.
 (iv) applicants in the Public Service 
should send their applications through 
their respective Heads of Department/
institution.
05. Salary Scale.– the applicable salary scale for this 
Service is as per the schedule i of the Public administration 
Circular No. 03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. The applicable 
salary scale is as follows:
Rs.47,615 - 10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170- Rs. 110,895 
(SL-1-2016)- monthly.
 
however, salaries will be paid in accordance with the 
schedule ii of the above circular.
06. Written examination :
  (i) the examination will be held in colombo in 
June 2017, by the commissioner General of 
Examinations on behalf of the Public Service 
commission.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
545
 (ii) the examination will be held in Sinhala, tamil and English medium only.
 (iii) A candidate can apply in one of the three languages mentioned above and he/she must sit all the question 
papers in the language medium applied for.  the language medium in which the candidate applied for 
cannot subsequently be changed. 
 (iv) Written examination will consist of question papers on the following subjects:
Sub.
No. Subject Duration Maximum 
Marks 
Pass 
Marks
01 General Paper 3 hours 100 40
02 World affairs i 3 hours 100 40
03 World affairs ii 3 hours 100 40
04 Essay 3 hours 100 40
05 Précis 30 minutes 50 25
06 multiple choice Question Paper 
•	 intelligence  test 
•	 General knowledge and 
current affairs
2 hrs. and 30 minutes 150 75
07 Language Proficiency 3 hours 100 40
 (v) authority of the written examination :  commissioner General of Examinations
 (vi) Professional Examination :  Not applicable
 (vii) interview for eligibility assessment    : the Structured interview will be conducted as per 
the marking scheme approved by the Public Service 
commission 
 Note: 
 (i) only the candidates who have sat for all the seven papers of the written examination and have 
obtained the minimum pass marks or more in each subject and the minimum aggregate of not less 
than 350 marks or more will be called for the structured interview; provided that the number of 
candidates to be called shall not exceed five times the number of vacancies to be filled. 
 (ii) the interview for eligibility assessment will be conducted by an interview board approved by the 
Public Service commission. 
 (iii) the marks scored at the written examination will not be made available to the interview board. 
 (iv) the merit order will be made based on the total aggregate marks obtained at the written examination 
and the interview for eligibility assessment. appointment will be made by the Public Service 
commission on the merit order and depending on the number of vacancies.
 (viii) General interview : marks will not be given.
   Objectives :  To check whether the qualifications mentioned in the Sri Lanka Foreign 
Service minute and the Gazette Notification published as per the above 
Minute have been fulfilled and to examine the physical fitness.
 (ix) method of calling applications : through the Government Gazette, Public notifications and publishing 
in the ministry website.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
546
 (x) Syllabus for Written Examination :
 (a) General Paper  :
  this question paper is designed to test the candidate’s knowledge of the political, social, cultural and 
economic environment of Sri Lanka, matters of current national and international interest as well as 
scientific and technological developments. 
 (b) World Affairs I  :
  this paper will consist of questions on current global political developments, the United Nations 
and other International Organizations, conflict situations and development of various national and 
international movements, in order to ascertain the candidate’s ability to analyse global trends for peace, 
security and development and their impact on Sri Lanka. 
 (c) World Affairs II  :
  this paper will consist of questions on recent trends of trade and economic developments and their 
relevance to Sri Lanka including questions on the role played by International Organizations, influence 
of regional economic groups, environment and sustainable development.
 (d) essay  :
  An essay to be written on one or more specified subjects.  These subjects will not be related to any 
subject field of study but will be designed to test the candidate’s general knowledge and intelligence 
and his/her general ability both in powers of thinking and expression.  The essay will be judged by the 
degree of thoughtfulness and originality in its treatment of the subject as well as by its language style 
and presentation.  it must be clearly and legibly written. 
Note.– the attention of candidates is drawn to the importance of relevance and legibility.  credit will be 
given to careful examination of the subject to the degree of analytical thinking, the quality of writing 
and ability to express oneself concisely and clearly. 
 (e) Précis  :
  The paper is designed to test the candidate’s ability to grasp the meaning of a given passage/ passages 
and to express it clearly and concisely in an attractive manner.
 (f) Multiple Choice Question Paper (Intelligence  Test and General Knowledge and Current affairs)  :
  this paper will be in two parts, comprising the following sections; each paper consists of 50 questions 
and carries 75 marks. 
 • Intelligence Test – To assess the power of logical reasoning and analytical ability of the candidate. 
( time period: 75 minutes)
 • General Knowledge and Current Affairs – To evaluate the candidate’s knowledge in local and 
global current developments in the political, economic and socio-cultural fields.(Time period: 75 
minutes)
 (g) Language Proficiency  :
  This paper is designed to ascertain the candidate’s Language Proficiency. (There are three papers in 
Sinhala, tamil and English languages and the total marks allocated for this paper is 100.the duration of 
the question paper is 03 hours.) 
  the candidates who appear for the examination in Sinhala and tamil medium should sit for a paper 
in English language and those who appear for the examination in the English medium should sit for a 
paper in Sinhala or tamil language.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
547
07. interview for eligibility assessment :
 (i) only the candidates who have appeared for all seven (07) papers and have obtained marks at or above 
the minimum pass marks in each paper and have obtained the aggregate at or above the cut-off point 
determined by the Secretary which will not be less than 350 marks, shall be called for the interview for 
eligibility assessment. however, the number of candidates to be called for the interview shall not exceed 
five times the number of vacancies to be filled.    
 (ii) the interview for eligibility assessment will carry 100 marks.  
 (iii) Under no circumstances, shall the minimum aggregate cut off marks be lowered.
 (iv) the candidates will be interviewed by an interview Board for assessment of eligibility appointed by the 
Public Service Commission.  The objective of the interview is to assess his/her suitability for the service 
for which he/she is entering.  The Board will attach particular importance to his/her intelligence and 
mental alertness, his/her personality.  A candidate’s proficiency in other languages, higher educational 
qualifications and computer skills etc. will also be assessed at the interview. 
 (v) the marks scored at the written examination will not be made available to the interview board. 
 (vi) the interview for eligibility assessment will be planned in consultation with the Public Service 
commission.
 (vii) the marking scheme of the interview for eligibility assessment is as follows:
Interview for eligibility assessment- marking criteria Marks 
Break down 
Maximum
Marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications
a degree from a University recognized by the University Grants commission 
Special degree
 (i) degree with 1
st class
 (ii) degree with 2 nd class upper division
 (iii) degree with 2 nd class lower division
 
General degree
 (i) degree with 1
st class
 (ii) degree with 2 nd class upper division
 (iii) degree with 2 nd class lower division
20
18
16
18
16
14
20
02 Other/Professional Qualifications
a degree from a University recognized by the University Grants commission 
 (i) Post Graduate degree
 (ii) Post Graduate diploma (duration not less than 01 year)
 (iii) diploma course (duration not less than 06 months)
 (iv) Diploma/Certificate Course (Duration not less than 03 months.) 
15
13
10
08
15
03 Proficiency in English Language
 (i) English Special degree
 (ii) English as a subject in the degree (General arts degree)
 (iii) degree in English medium
 (iv) diploma from a recognized University, technical college or from a 
government registered institution (duration more than 01 year)
oR
Qualification such as TOEFL (TOFEL – iBT Score 79, TOEFL-
cBt Score 213 toEfL-PBt Score 550 or above) or iELtS 
(Score 6.0 or above) or a similar qualification.
 (v) English as a Subject in G.C.E. (A/L) Exam (Local or London)
   distinction
   Very good pass
   credit pass
   ordinary Pass
15
08
07
07
05
04
03
02
15

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
548
Interview for eligibility assessment- marking criteria Marks 
Break down 
Maximum
Marks
04 Proficiency in Foreign Language
Proficiency in Arabic, Chinese (Mandarin) , French, German, Hindi, Italian, 
Japanese, Korean, Russian and Spanish languages
 (i) as a subject in the degree
 (ii) G.C.E. (A/L) Examination
        distinction
        Very good pass
        credit pass
        ordinary pass
 (iii) G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
       distinction
       Very good pass
       credit pass
       ordinary pass
 (iv) diploma course (duration not less than 06 months)
 (v) Certificate Course (Duration not less  than 03 months)
10
09
08
07
06
05
04
03
02
05
03
10
05 Computer Skills
 (i) degree from a recognized University
 (ii) diploma from a recognized University, technical college or from a 
government registered institution (duration not less than 01 year)
 (iii) Certificate Course from a government registered Institution (Duration not 
less than 06 months / not less than 720 hrs.)
(If the IT Degree is the basic qualification, marks will not be granted for IT degree 
under this stream.)
05
03
02
05
06 Proficiency in Official Languages (Language other than the one in which the 
applicant appears for the examination)   
 (i) As a first language in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
     distinction
     Very good pass
     credit pass
     ordinary pass
 (ii) As a second language in G.C.E. (O/L) Examination
     distinction
     Very good pass
     credit pass
     ordinary pass
06
04
03
02
04
03
02
01
10
07 Personality, Communication skills and special skills
Personality
communication skills
Special skills
10
10
05
25
Total 100

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
549
08. Method of Applying:
 (i) application forms should be prepared in a-4 
size paper as per the specimen appended to 
this notification, containing items 01 to 06 
on the first page and the rest on the 2
nd and 
3rd pages. Both sides of the paper should 
be used. Application should be filled by the 
applicant legibly in his/her own handwriting. 
in applications prepared in Sinhala or tamil 
languages, the name of the examination should 
be indicated at the top of the application form 
in English in addition to in Sinhala or tamil. 
applications which are not in conformity with 
the specimen and are not completed will be 
rejected without any notification.  Applicants 
are advised to keep a photocopy of the 
application.
 (ii) the application should be prepared in the 
language medium in which the candidate 
intends to sit for the examination.
 (iii) the perfected applications should be sent by 
registered post to the “commissioner General 
of Examinations, department of Examinations, 
P.o. Box. 1503, colombo” to reach on or before 
17
th of april 2017. applications received after 
this date will be rejected. the words “open 
competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade iii of the Sri Lanka foreign Service – 
2016 (2017)” should be written clearly on the 
top left hand corner of the envelope enclosing 
the application. English letter “S” should be 
indicated clearly within a cage (2 cm x 2 cm) 
on the top left hand side of the envelope.
 (iv) applications which are not perfected in every 
respect will be rejected.  No claims regarding 
the loss of applications or delay in the post will 
be entertained.
  
 (v) Receipt of the applications will not be 
acknowledged. on the presumption that 
only those who possess the qualifications 
specified in the Gazette Notification have 
applied, admission cards will be issued by 
the commissioner General of Examinations 
to the applicants who have forwarded duly 
perfected applications on or before the closing 
date of applications with receipts obtained on 
the payment of examination fee duly affixed, 
provided they are within the prescribed age 
limit. immediately after issuing admission 
cards an advertisement to that effect will be 
published in the newspapers by the department 
of Examinations, Sri Lanka. candidates who do 
not receive their admission cards within 02 or 
03 days after the publication of the newspaper 
advertisement should make inquiries from 
the organization and External Examinations 
branch of the department of Examinations. in 
making inquiries the candidates should state 
clearly the name of the examination applied 
for, full name of the applicant, National 
identity card number and the postal address. 
in the case of outstation candidates, it will be 
more advantageous to send a letter of request 
with a fax number which he/ she can receive 
his/ her admission card, making reference to 
the fax number given in the notification. In 
making such inquiries it will be beneficial for 
the applicant to keep with him/her a copy of 
the application, a copy of the receipt issued on 
payment of the examination fee and the receipt 
issued on sending the application by registered 
post to enable him/her to substantiate any 
information required by the department of 
Examination.
 (vi) the issue of an admission card to an applicant 
should not be treated as an assurance that he/
she has fulfilled requirements to appear for the 
examination or that he/ she is eligible for the 
post.
09.  Admission to the Examination :
 (i) Signature of the applicant placed on the 
admission card as well as on the application 
should have been attested. candidate 
employed in an institution should get his/her 
signature attested by the head of institution or 
any other officer authorized to sign on behalf 
of such head of institution and in the case of 
other candidates a head or a retired head of 
Government school, Grama Niladhari of the 
division, Justice of  Peace, commissioner of 
oaths, attorney- at – Law or Notary Public, 
a Commissioned officer of the Army, Navy or 
air force, a permanent Government or Local 
Government staff Officer in receipt of an annual 
salary of Rs. 240,360/- or above, the incumbent 
of a Buddhist Vihara, a Nayaka Buddhist 
monk, the incumbent of a place of worship 
of any other religion or a religious dignitary 
of standing in any other religion.  candidate 
should submit his/ her admission card with 
the signature attested to the Supervisor of 
the Examination hall. a candidate who fails 

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
550
to produce his/her Admission Card will 
not be permitted to sit for the Examination. 
candidates will be subject to the rules and 
regulations governing the examination and the 
issue of results imposed by the commissioner 
General of Examinations.  a candidate, who 
violates such laws, shall be subjected to a 
penalty imposed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations. 
 (ii) a  candidate must sit for the examination at the 
examination hall assigned to him/her.  Every 
candidate should surrender the admission 
Card to the Supervisor of the hall, on the first 
day of the examination, before he/she sit for 
the examination.  a set of rules to be observed 
by all candidates is published in this Gazette.
10. Fees for the Examination.– the fee for the 
examination is Rs. 1,200/=. This fee should be paid before 
the closing date of applications at the Post/ Sub Post Office 
and credited to the Revenue head 2003-02-13.  it will be 
useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt issued on payment 
with the applicant. it should be noted that money orders or 
stamps will not be accepted.
Note.– a candidate who withdraws from the 
examination or is absent from the examination 
for any reason whatsoever or having sat for the 
examination and is found ineligible, shall not be 
entitled to a refund or a transfer of the whole or part 
of the examination fee for another examination.
11. Identification of the Candidate.– a candidate will be 
required to prove his/her identity at the examination hall 
to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject he/she 
appears.  for this purpose any of the following documents 
will be accepted.
 (i) National identity card issued by the 
department of Registration of Persons.
 (ii) a  Valid Passport
12. Issue of Results.– candidates who obtain maximum 
qualifications as per paragraph 06 of this notification will 
be referred for an eligibility assessment interview and the 
results on the basis of aggregate marks obtained by them 
for  both these examinations will be sent to the Secretary, 
Public Service commission. thereafter, on the direction of 
the Public Service Commission the results will be notified 
personally to all the applicants or will be published in the 
website www.results.exams.gov.lk
13. Furnishing of false Information.– if the details 
furnished by the candidate in his/her application are found 
to be false or incorrect before the recruitment, his/her 
candidature will be cancelled.  if such particulars furnished 
are found to be false or incorrect after the recruitment, the 
candidate will be dismissed from the service as per the 
rules and regulations.
14. any matter not provided for in the Gazette 
Notification will be dealt with as determined by the Public 
Service commission.  Public Service commission reserves 
the right to fill the vacancies, wholly or partly or not to fill 
any vacancy.
15. if there is any discrepancy with regard to the 
interpretation, the Sinhala version shall prevail. 
By order of the Public Service commission,
 esala Weerakoon,
 Secretary,
 ministry of foreign affairs.
Republic Building,
colombo 01,
on 03rd march, 2017.
specimen application form
public service commission
MINISTRY OF FOReIGN AFF AIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade III of the Sri Lanka foreign Service – 2016 (2017)
                       (For office use only)
medium of the Examination:
(Please write the appropriate number in the cage)   
 Sinhala  -  2
 tamil  -  3
 English  -  4
01. (i)  (a) Last name with initials at the end (in English 
block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (Example : SUmaNaSiRi, E.d.c.B.a.)
          (b)  Last name with initials at the end (in Sinhala/
tamil) :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
551
13. Furnishing of false Information.– if the details 
furnished by the candidate in his/her application are found 
to be false or incorrect before the recruitment, his/her 
candidature will be cancelled.  if such particulars furnished 
are found to be false or incorrect after the recruitment, the 
candidate will be dismissed from the service as per the 
rules and regulations.
14. any matter not provided for in the Gazette 
Notification will be dealt with as determined by the Public 
Service commission.  Public Service commission reserves 
the right to fill the vacancies, wholly or partly or not to fill 
any vacancy.
15. if there is any discrepancy with regard to the 
interpretation, the Sinhala version shall prevail. 
By order of the Public Service commission,
 e
sala Weerakoon,
 Secretary,
 ministry of foreign affairs.
Republic Building,
colombo 01,
on 03rd march, 2017.
s
pecimen application form
public service commission
MINISTRY OF FOReIGN AFF AIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to 
Grade III of the Sri Lanka foreign Service – 2016 (2017)
                       (For office use only)
medium of the Examination:
(Please write the appropriate number in the cage)   
 Sinhala  -  2
 tamil  -  3
 English  -  4
01. (i)  (a) Last name with initials at the end (in English 
block capitals) :––––––––––––.
   (Example : SUmaNaSiRi, E.d.c.B.a.)
          (b)  Last name with initials at the end (in Sinhala/
tamil) :––––––––––––.
  (ii) (a) Names denoted by initials (in English block  
capitals) :–––––––––.
            (b) Names denoted by initials (in Sinhala/Tamil) 
:–––––––––.
02. address :
  (i) Residential (in English block capitals) :––––––.
   (admission card will be posted to this address)
  (ii) Official :–––––––––.
  (iii) t elephone No. :           
   Official :–––––––––.
                  Residential :–––––––––.
03. Sex:
   male - 0
   female - 1
  (Please write the appropriate number in the cage)
04. National identity card No. :
05. Language applied for as the subject of “language 
proficiency” as per 6.X.(G) of the Gazette Notification:
 (Sinhala – 2, tamil– 3, English – 4) 
 Please write the appropriate number in the cage. 
06. (i) date of Birth:
  y ear :  month : date : 
 (ii)  age on the closing date of applications:
  y ears :  months :         days :
07. Nationality :                                                          
 (Please write the appropriate number in the cage)
 (Sinhala – 1, tamil – 2, indian tamil – 3, 
 muslim – 4, other-5)
08. civil status:        
 Please write the appropriate number in the cage
    Single    –  1
   married –  2
09. if you have sat for an examination for appointment 
to the Sri Lanka foreign Service previously, state the 
year/years:
 (a) ------------------------------
 (b) ------------------------------
 (c) ------------------------------
10. if you are a graduate holding a post in the Public 
Service, please state the name of the position :––––––.
11. details of the University degree: (Please read 
paragraph 2 (i) of the notification carefully to ascertain 
whether you are qualified in this respect) : 
 (i) Name of the University/ Institution :––––––––.
 (ii) Name of the degree :–––––––––.  
 (iii) date of award   :–––––––––.
 (iv) General/Special :–––––––––.  
 (v) Subjects  :–––––––––.
 (vi) class  :–––––––––.
12. If you possess any other academic/professional 
qualifications (postgraduate degree/diploma/ proficiency 
in foreign Languages etc.),please give details below : 
–––––––––––.  
13. details of the receipt received by you on the payment 
of the examination fee:
 (i) Post office where the examination fee was paid 
:–––––––––––.
 (ii) Receipt number and date :–––––––––––.
 (iii) amount paid :–––––––––––.
Please affix the receipt here
(Keeping a photocopy with the applicant will be useful)
14. declaration o f the applicant:
i do hereby declare that the particulars furnished by me 
are true and accurate. i am also aware that if any particulars 
given herein is found to be incorrect or false, i am liable 
to be disqualified if discovered before selection and, to 
dismissal if discovered after selection. i further, declare 
that i abide by the rules and regulations imposed by the 
commissioner-General of Examinations in respect of 
conducting the examination and issuing the results. 
  –––––––––––––––,
  Signature of applicant,
date :––––––––––.
15. attestation of the signature of the applicant:
I do hereby certify that Mr./Ms. ............................... 
who is forwarding this application is known to me 

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2017'03'17
 P ART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 17.03.2017
552
personally and that he/she placed his/her signature before 
me on ............................. He/she has paid the prescribed 
examination fee and has attached the receipt herein.
                                 –––––––––––,
  Signature of the officer attesting. 
   
date :––––––––––.
Full name of the officer attesting :––––––––––.
designation :––––––––––.
address :––––––––––.
(Please confirm by placing the official stamp)
16. cER tificatE of thE hEad of dEPaRtmENt
 (only for candidates who are already in the Public 
Service/Provincial Public Service) :
I have ascertained that during 5 years/..............years 
preceding ................. Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................... PRiNtEd  at  thE  dEPaRtmENt  of  GoVERNmENt  PRiNtiNG,  SRi  LaNKa.
has (a) earned all his/her increments (b) has not been 
subjected to any form of disciplinary punishment (other 
than warning).
i certify that the particulars given in the application are 
correct and he/she has paid the relevant examination fees 
and attached the cash receipt herein. 
This officer, if selected, can be released from his/her 
present post immediately.
 ––––––––––––––––, 
 Signature and the designation
 of the head of department.
date :–––––––––––.
03–893 