

<!-- page 1 -->

wxl 2042$21 - 2017 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 26 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2017'10'26
No. 2042/21 – THURSDAY, OCT OBER 26, 2017
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) - GENERAL
Government   Notifications
Record Keeping Regulations
THE VALUE ADDED TAX  ACT,  NO. 14  OF  2002
REGULA TIONS made by the Minister of Finance under section 75 read with section 64  of the V alue Added Tax Act, No. 14
of 2002. These regulations operate effective for the requirement of the sections, and the Regulations published in the Gazette
Extraordinary No. 1024/8 of April 21, 1998 are hereby rescinded.
           MANGALA SAMARAWEERA,
                   Minister of Finance and Mass Media.
Colombo,
25th October, 2017.
Regulations
1. These Regulations may be cited as the "Record Keeping Regulations" No. 01 of 2017.
2. Every registered person shall keep and maintain records in respect of goods and services made as any taxable supply,
deemed taxable supply, excluded supply or exempt supply as defined in the V alue Added Tax Act (hereinafter referred
to as V AT Act), and suspended supply or deemed suspended supply as defined in the Gazette Notification  published
for the purpose of Simplified V alue Added Tax Scheme (hreinafter referred to as SV A T Scheme) based on the tax invoice
or suspended ivoice or commercial invoice issued to another person or partnership in a serial order.
      3. (i) All records shall be kept and maintained by every registered person-
(a) up to date;
(b) with adequate information as regards the input and output tax in order to ascertain the liability of the tax
payable;
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
1A- PG3733- 507 (2017/10)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPaoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'26
PART I : S EC.(I) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.10.2017
2A
(c) to  enable the Assistant Commissioner to check;
(i) the imports made as deferred, at upfront, exempted, excluded or on NFE basis;
(ii) the suspended supplies, deemed suspended supplies where payment of V AT is deferred or suspended
purchases;
(iii) deemed taxable supplies mentioned in section 22 (10) of the V A T Act;
(iv) credits  on deemed taxable supplies made to special projects and strategic development projects, dee med
credit on suspended supplies;
(v) deemed input credits claimable after 01.11.2016 by persons who have obtained the V AT registration in
respect of wholesale and retail activity;
(vi) the records with the returns furnished under section 21 of the Act.
4. Where a registered person who has more than one place of buiness,  the name and address of such places of business
shall be kept at the principla place where the taxable activity is carried on.
5. Every registered person shall keep and maintain records of all transactions connected with the taxable supplies which
will be enable to determine the quantum  of tax to be paid or claimed by such person and shall include -
(i) every supply of goods and service on which tax has been charged;
(ii) every importation and removal of such imported  goods if such goods were in a bonded area;
(iii) all supplies made by registered person including supplies made under zero rate supplies:
       (iv)      all supplies made under suspended scheme;
(v) all supplies considered as deemed taxable supples;
(vi) all supplies  considered under deemed suspended supplies;
(vii) any gift or loan of  goods;
(viii) any damaged or destroyed goods;
(ix) any goods acquired or produced in the course of making taxable supplies which are put to private or non-
taxable use;
(x) any adjustments made to records including issuing/receiving credit notes and/or debit notes, writing of bad
debts and recoveries from bad debts which have been written off previously.
6. Such other documents as are necessary to verify the entries in any such books of accounts referred to in section 64 of
the  V A T Act Shall include work sheets.
7. (i) Records shall be  maintained in respect of every taxable period setting out details of output and input tax. In the
case of quarterly returns, the records shall be maintained on a monthly basis.
(ii) The format of the account to be maintained or kept in respect of the tax payable under the V AT Act shall be as
specified in the Annexure.
(iii) The input tax allowable under the  VA T Act shall be set out separately. This shall include -
(a) input tax either charged or paid on goods and services received.
(b) input tax on imported goods including goods removed from bonded areas;
(c) any relief due on bad debts or other adjustments;
(d) excessive calculations from previous taxable periods except where an assessment has been made by an
Assistant Commissioner;
(e) the amount of a unabsorbed input tax as at 31.12.2010 or any input tax brought from any previous tax able
period, if applicable, which is to be claimed;
(f) deemed input credit, in respect of goods which are to be sold in wholesale or retail trade by a regi stered
person,
-  if such registration is obtained during the period from 02.05.2016 to 31.12.2016, and if so, on stock of liable
goods as at the date of registration which are not mentioned in PART II of the First Schedule of the V A T Act,;
- if the registration is obtained on or after 02.05.2016 on goods which are not mentioned in PART II of the First
Schedule of the VA T Act and purchased from non-registered suppliers.
(iv) Suspended purchase made under the SVA T scheme and whether such purchase is used for specified purpose or
deemed specified purpose.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPaoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'26
PART I : S EC.(I) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.10.2017
3A
(v) The output tax payable under the V A T Act shall be set out separately-
(a) output tax payable on goods or services including deemed taxable supplies;
(b) tax due on self -supplies and other adjustments;
(c)reduced calculations of tax from previous taxable periods  except where an assessment has been made by
an  Assistant Commissioner;
(d) All credit vouchers received on suspended supplies.
8. Every registered person is required to maintain records and prepare the below mentioned schedules an d required to
submit to the Commissioner General with the return of the V A T.
(a) Schedule 01  (Output Schedule) as per the details given below;
(i) Each entry for each tax  invoice,
(ii) One entry for all  inclusive invoices giving the dummy Taxpayer Identification  Number  mentioned in  the
Quick guide uploaded to the web portal.
(iii) Each entry for supplies made to government  institutions which are not registered for V A T, giving the dummy
Taxpayer Identification Number assigned for this purpose to all such entries as mentioned in the Quick guide
uploaded to the Web Portal,
(b) Schedule 02 (Input Schedule for Local Purchases);
(c) Schedule 03 (Input Schedule for imports);
(d) Schedule 04 (Schedule for tax credit notes and tax debit notes);
(e) Schedules on deemed input tax.
(i) Schedules 05 is prepared only for deemed input credit claimable on goods purchased from non-register ed
persons for VA T, and it is the format which is to be used for the purpose of furnishing to the Commissioner
General with the V A T return for any respective taxable period.
(ii) Schedules for deemed input  V A T, on opening stock as at the date of registration is prepared only for deemed
input credit claimable on opening stocks, and it is required to be uploaded only once to the Web Portal of IRD.
(iii) Schedules for deemed input  V A T, on purchases made from non V A T registered persons during the taxable
period is prepared  and maintained only for deemed input credit claimable on goods purchased from no n-
registered persons. However, this schedule is not required to be furnished to the Commissioner Gener al
along with the V A T return for any taxable period.
(iv) The above schedules mentioned in sub items (i), (ii), and (iii) are applicable only for persons who have
obtained the V A T registration on or after 02.05.2016 for whole sale and retail activity.
(v) When submitting Schedules , the  rules specified by the Commissioner General for e - Service is applicable  as it is.
Templates of the above schedules are available in the web portal of the Commissioner General, and th ose
schedules are required to be prepared by using the latest appropriate schedule template.
9. Every Registered Identified Purchaser (RIP) and Registered Identified Supplier (RIS) is required to maintain records
and prepare the below mentioned schedules.
(a) SV A T 05 Schedule;
(b) SV A T 05a Schedule;
(c) SV A T 05b Schedule;
(d) SV A T 06 Schedule;
(e) SV A T 07 Schedule;
Templates of the above schedules are available in the web portal of the Commissioner General, and those schedules are
required to be prepared by using the latest appropriate schedule template.
10. Every RIP  is required to maintain records on any purchase made under SV AT Scheme and purchase which is to be
disallowed as per the Gazette Notification issued by the Commissioner General, and records relating to issued credit
vouchers on suspended purchase.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPaoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'26
PART I : S EC.(I) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.10.2017
4A
11. Every RIP  or RIS is  required to maintain records relating to received credit vouchers on suspended supply.
12. Every registered person who keeps or maintains the books of accounts shall balance such Accounts to ascertain the
amount of the tax payable or refund to be made for the relevant period.
13. Worksheets which are necessary to arrive at the tax deductible or tax payable shall by be maintained  separately in
relation to each record. This shall include the -
i. amount of tax chargeable on the supplies;
ii. tax exclusive value of supplies;
iii. value of any exempt/non-taxable wholesale or retail supplies made;
iv. amount of tax suspended on the supplies;
v. details of all adjustments;
vi. record of all taxable supplies received;
vii. Simplified V AT Credit vouchers (SVCV) obtained from the Commissioner General and issuance of such
SVCV on suspended purchase;
viii. Amount to be claimed as deemed input credit.
14. Records shall be kept and maintained in such a manner that the details or each transaction and the a mount of tax or
suspended tax are entered in full  or can easily  be ascertained by referring to the supplier's tax invoice or suspended
tax invoice or evidence of tax on imported goods.
15. Cash basis accounting - Registered persons who are permitted by th Commissioner Genrral of Inland Revenue to adopt
cash basis accounting shall maintain a separate column in their records to indicate cash received or paid in respect of
every transaction.
16. V AT Control Account - V A T Control Account shall contain all V A T received or receivable and V A T paid or payable by
the registered person. The following (minimum) details should be recorded in this account.
V AT Control Account -
Date Discription Folio Amount Date Discription Folio    Amount
No. No.
17. Except the maintenance of above mentioned records, any registered person who is required to maintain  documents
under,
(i) Regulation issued under Gazette Notification in respect of transfer pricing regulations,
(ii) Regulation issued under Gazette Notification in respect of Sri Lanka Financial Reporting Standards,
(iii) Guideline issued under Gazette Notification in respect of V alue Added Tax on financial services,
(iv) Guideline issued under Gazette Notification in respect of Simplified V A T Scheme,
(v) Regulation issued under Gazette Notification in respect of deemed input credit claimable by persons who
have obtain the VA T registration on or after May 02nd of 2016 on wholesale and retail activity,
(vi) Regulations issued under section 25K of V alue Added Tax Act,
(vii) Reconciliation of the value of turnover/ supply for V A T purposes with the turnover for Nation Building Tax,
Income tax or any other type of taxes,
is required to keep records under this Gazette Notification.
18. All records either in hardcopies or softcopies shall be preserved for a period of five years from the end of the taxable
period to which such records relate. Provided however, on an application made by a registerd person, the Commissioner
General may permit, such person to destroy such records before the said period of five years for rea sons stated.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPaoh - Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'10'26
PART I : S EC.(I) -  GAZETTE  EXTRAORDINAR Y  OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA  – 26.10.2017
5A
19. In these regulations unless the context otherwise requires-
"Act" means the V alue Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002;
"Tax" means the Value Added Tax Payable under the Act;
"Assistant Commissioner" includes Deputy Commissioner and Senior Deputy Commissioner.
Annexure: FORMAT OF THE RECORD IN RESPECT OF TAX PAYABLE
Period from..................................................................... to .........................................................
Month 1 Month 2 Month 3
Output Tax
V alue of supply
Less:  Bad debt written off
Add: Bad debt recovered on previously written off
Adjusted value of supply
Tax payable - Output tax
Add: Tax on debit notes issued
Less: Tax on credit notes issued
Net Tax Payable
Input tax
Deductible Input tax on local invoices
Deductible Input tax on imports
Credit voucher receivable on deferred imports
Add: Tax on debit notes received
Less: Tax on credit notes received
Total input tax claimable
On Imports made under deferment
On Imports made under upfront payment
On local purchase
Net Tax payable
Less - credits
Unabsorbed input tax brought forward from
previous returns and reduced calculation of Tax on
Excessive claims of input tax from previous returns
Credit on deemed taxable supplies made to Strategic
Development Projects
Credit on deemed taxable supplies made to Specified Projects
Credit on suspended supplies
Credit claimed from unabsorbed input tax as at 31.12.2010
Against V A T payable for the taxable period
Against taxes administered by the Commissioner General
Against  the taxes payable to the Director General of Customs
Against the taxes payable to telecommunication Regulation Authority
Deemed input credit on opening stocks and goods purchased from
non- registered person who has obtained V A T Registration after
02nd May 2016 and who sells goods in wholesale or retail trade
11-522
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.