

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PRADESHIYA SABHAS (AMENDMENT)
 ACT,  No.  30  OF  2018
 Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 28th of September, 2018]
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 15.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2018
This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

<!-- page 2 -->

1Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2018
[Certified on 28th of September, 2018]
L.D.—O. 3/2016
AN ACT TO AMEND THE PRADESHIYA SABHAS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the Pradeshiya Sabhas
(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2018.
2. Section 19 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of
1987 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that
section as follows:—
(1) by the substitution, in paragraph (xiv) for the words
“improvement or maintenance of village works,”
of the words “improvement  or maintenance of
village works or estate settlements,”;
(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (xxii) for the words
“integrated development of selected villages,” of
the words “integrated development of selected
villages, estate settlements,”.
3. Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows:—
(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection
(1) thereof and in the renumbered subsection (1),
by the substitution for all the words from
“enterprises in question,” to the end of that
subsection of the following:—
“enterprises in question.”;
Short title.
Amendment of
section 19 of
Act, No. 15 of
1987.
Amendment of
section 33 of the
principal
enactment.

<!-- page 3 -->

Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2018
2
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
(2) by the insertion, immediately after the renumbered
subsection (1), of the following subsections:—
“(2) In the case of plantation regions, the
Pradeshiya Sabhas may, upon adoption of a special
resolution and in consultation with the
administrative authority of the relevant estate,
utilise the Pradeshiya Sabha fund to facilitate the
residents of the respective plantation regions with
roads, wells and other common amenities necessary
for the welfare of such residents.
(3) (a) The roads, wells and common amenities
constructed, maintained or facilitated under
subsection (1) or (2) shall be vested in the Pradeshiya
Sabha by an appropriate instrument and shall be
constituted public roads, wells and common
amenities.
(b) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall require the
owners of the estates or industrial enterprises,
administrative authorities of the relevant estates or
the residents of such plantation regions, as the case
may be, to pay such contribution towards the
expenses of construction, maintenance or
facilitation of such roads, wells and common
amenities, as may be approved by the Pradeshiya
Sabha and all such contributions shall be deemed
to be special rates imposed upon such lands and
plantation regions benefited and shall be recoverable
as a rate imposed under the provisions of this Act.
(4) For the purpose of this section, “plantation
regions” means the estates coming under the
Divisional Secretary’s Divisions in the Districts in
the Central, Uva, Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Western,
North Central and North Western Provinces, in which
the resident labourers live and tea, rubber, coconut,
cinnamon, pepper, clove or oil palm are cultivated.”.
4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

<!-- page 4 -->

3Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 2018
English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the “P RAKASHANA PIYASA”, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.