

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1387
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 1382 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"447 – 2025 cQ,s ui 25 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'07'25
No. 2,447 –  FRIDAY, JULY, 25, 2025
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 15th August, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 01st August, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 S. D. Pandikorala (Acting),
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
09th June, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1379 - B 082703 -  (07/2025)


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1380
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1381
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1382
Post - Vacant
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION 
Filling vacancies in the post of Director in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service under Section 
11.2 of the Minute of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014   
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the officers who have satisfied the required qualifications and have been promoted 
to Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service and in active service at present to be appointed to the post of Director in 
Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service created at the Ministry of Urban Development, Construction and Housing by 
the Department of Management Services in terms of the provisions of  the Minute of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service, 
published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014, revised by the 
Gazette Extraordinary No.1994/68 dated 24.11.2016 and the revised provisions made to Section 11.2 of the said service 
minute by the Gazette Extraordinary No.2085/46 dated 24.08.2018 which is in effect from 01.01.2006.  
01. Number of vacancies:
Serial No.  Department                   Post Number of vacancies
     01 Ministry of Urban 
Development, Constructions and 
Housing
Director  
(Grade I of Sri Lanka 
Architects’ Service)
  01 post 
02. Qualifications to be satisfied: 
I. Shall be an officer in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service 
03. Method of selecting to the posts: 
The appointments will be made to the relevant post conforming to the number of vacancies mentioned above, depending 
on the order of the aggregate marks allocated for their seniority and merit, by way of directing them to a structured 
interview, conducted by an interview board approved by the Public Service Commission, which allocates marks as per 
the below-mentioned marking scheme approved by the said Commission. The effective date of the appointment will be 
determined by the Public Service Commission. 
04. Marking Scheme: 
Appointment to the posts in Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service 
on seniority and merit for  - Approved marking scheme    
Maximum 
marks  
Total Marks
01. Work experience 
Marks will be allocated for active and satisfactory period of service in 
Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service   
1.1. The maximum marks will be given to the officer with the longest 
period of service in Grade I of the Sri Lanka architects and the other 
officers will be given marks proportionately as per Public Service 
Commission Circular No. 01/2019.
65 65
02. Merit 
2.1. Additional educational qualifications
 02.1.1 Postgraduate degree  
05 30

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1383
Appointment to the posts in Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service 
on seniority and merit for  - Approved marking scheme    
Maximum 
marks  
Total Marks
02.2 Contribution made as an Architect with regard to the 
upliftment of  education in Architecture and the profession 
02.2.1 Publications related to the field   
Research publications (Published papers in journals  or 
conferences)
03 marks for each publication (a maximum of 2 
publications) 
Articles for newspapers and magazines 
                 - 02 marks for each publication 
(a maximum of 3 publications)
02.3 For posts held by the officer at a recognized local/ foreign 
institution in relation to Architecture
         02 marks for each post held by the officer (Written confirmations 
should be submitted and marks will be allocated for a maximum 
of three posts.) 
02.2.3 For commendations
01 mark for each letter of commendation issued by the 
Head of the Institution
 
through Form General 230b (for a maximum of 03 letters 
of commendation) 
02.3  A PowerPoint Presentation of 10-minutes on how to contribute to 
the role of the selected post. 
i. Relevancy                                     - 02 Marks
ii. Creativity                                      - 02 Marks
iii. Innovations & Suggestions           - 02 Marks
iv. Time Management         - 02 Marks
v. Proficiency in English                   - 02 Marks
Note- 
(a) Marks can be obtained under criterion (v) above only if the 
applicant does this presentation in English language.
(b) The hard copy of the presentation must be submitted to the 
board of interview at the time of the presentation. In addition, it 
is compulsory to submit a hard copy of the presentation prepared 
in English medium. 
06
06
03
10
3. Merit proved at the interview
a) Leadership - 02 marks
b) Communication skills - 02 marks
c) Personality - 01 mark
05
Total Marks 100
N.B. -
I. Written confirmations should be submitted for all the publications 
presented for obtaining marks under 2.1.1 and 2.2.1  

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1384
05.  The officers who are selected will be appointed to the above posts in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service, which 
have fallen vacant, by the Public Service Commission with effect from the date of assumption of duties in the respective 
post, subject to the general conditions that govern the appointments in the public service, the terms and conditions 
imposed in the Minute of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service (published in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist 
Republic of Sri Lanka No. 1877/28 dated 28.08.2014) and the revisions that have been made or shall be made in the 
future to the said service minute.   
06. Officers who have satisfied the minimum qualifications indicated in this notification and are in active service shall strictly 
be called for the interview. 
07. Application perfected in accordance with the following format should be sent along with the recommendation of the 
Head of the Department by registered post to reach “Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils 
and Local Government” on or before 22 August 2025. The words “Filling vacancies in the posts in Grade I of the Sri 
Lanka Architects’ Service” should be clearly written on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the application 
is enclosed.  No application received after the said date shall be accepted and complaints on applications getting lost or 
delayed in the post shall not be considered.
08.  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this notification, the Sinhala text shall 
prevail. 
09.  The application can also be downloaded through www.pubad.gov.lk. 
On the order of the Public Service Commission,
               
  S. Alokabandara,
  Secretary,
  Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government.  
22nd July, 2025, 
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial, 
Councils and Local Government,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07.
PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION
Application for filling vacancies in the post of Director in Grade I of Sri Lanka Architects’ Service at 
the Ministry of Urban Development, Construction and Housing based on the seniority and merit of the 
officers in Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service 
01.  Particulars of the officer 
 i. Name in full (In Sinhala):-. 
..........................................................................................................................................
 ii. Name in full (In English block letters):-...........................................................................................
  (Eg: HERATH MUDIYANSELAGE SAMAN KUMARA GUNAWARDHANA)
 iii. Name with initials (In English block letters):-...........................................................................................
  ............................................................................................................................................
    (Eg: GUNAWARDHANA, H. M. S. K.) 
 iv. Sex  :- Female Male 

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1385
 v. Date of Birth :-  
 
 vi. National Identity Card No. :-      
 vii. Permanent address:-.......................................................................................................
  ..............................................................................................................................................
 viii. Permanent address (In English block letters) :-......................................................................................................... 
  ....................................................................................................................................................................................
 ix. Age as at the closing date of application :- 
  Years .................... Months...........................Days..........................
 x. Telephone No. :-
Mobile: 
Office:
E- mail: …………………………………………………………………………… 
02.  Particulars of the post 
 
 i. Date of appointment to Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service:- ……………..
 ii. Period of service from the date of appointment to Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ Service to the closing date 
of submitting applications :-
 iii. Current workplace and the address :-
 iv. Post held at present:- 
 v. Date of appointment to that post :-
 vi. Educational and Professional Qualifications:-
Serial 
number      Educational Qualifications Year in which the qualification was 
satisfied         Institution
1. 
2. 
vii. Qualifications related to the field:-    
Special contribution made in the relevant field 
Researches and publications Details Relevant year 
The abstract should be presented during the interview. 
 Year  Month     Date
  Years Months     Days  

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1386
03. Have you obtained no-pay or half-pay leave since the date of appointment to Grade I of the Sri Lanka Architects’ 
Service?  
Serial 
number 
           Matter No-pay/ 
Half-pay leave
                         Duration
         From       To
(ii) Have you obtained all salary increments in the five years immediately preceding the closing date of application? 
04. (i) Have you been subject to any disciplinary punishment during the last five years?  ................................................            
 (ii) Are there any ongoing disciplinary inquiries?  ...................................
05. Declaration of the applicant  
I hereby certify that the particulars mentioned above are true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
 ..................................................... ..........................................................,
 Date Signature of the Officer. 
06.  Recommendation and certification of the Head of the Department
 Delete the inapplicable words.
 I. No disciplinary action has been taken or is intended to be taken against the applicant. (If disciplinary action has 
been taken, the date on which the officer committed the offense: State the particulars of the disciplinary action 
such as punishments.)    
 II. The applicant has taken/ has not taken no-pay leave or half-pay leave after the promotion to Grade I.  (If any, 
indicate the relevant durations in the table below.) 
            Yes No   
07-836

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1387
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
DEPARTMENT  OF  POSTS
Open competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Grade III Postal Service Officer of Non-
Technical/ Technical Officer Category - Supervisory Management Assistant of the Department of Posts, 
Sri Lanka–2025
IT is hereby announced that the open competitive examination for recruitment to the post of Grade III Postal Service Officer 
of Non-Technical/ Technical Officer Category - Supervisory Management Assistant of the Department of Posts, Sri Lanka 
will be conducted on October 2025.
Applications are invited from eligible applicants, on a district basis, to fill 600 vacancies in Grade III of the Postal Service 
Officer position under the Non-Technical/Technical Officer Category – Supervisory Management Assistant of the Department 
of Posts, Sri Lanka. The application form has been published on the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, 
www.doenets.lk in “Online Applications – Recruitment Exams/E.B. Exams,” under “Our Services”  and applications can 
only be submitted via Online. Online applications will be accepted from 9:00 a.m. on 28th July 2025 and will close at 9:00 
p.m. on 15th August 2025. 
Applicants currently employed in the public/provincial public service must submit a copy of their application to the head 
of the institution to be filed in their personal file and at the time of the interview, they are required to present a copy of the 
application certified by the institutional head along with a service confirmation letter.
2. Language Medium:
This examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English mediums. The selected medium of application shall not be 
permitted to change later.
3. Qualifications for Recruitment:
(a) Educational qualifications :
Having passed six subjects with six credit passes including Sinhala/Tamil/English and Mathematics at the G.C.E. 
(O/L) examinations in one sitting.
And
Having passed three subjects (excluding General Knowledge) at the G.C.E. (A/L) examination in one sitting. 
(b) Professional qualifications :
Having obtained a certificate for completing a computer literacy course of not less than 360 hours at an institution 
registered with the Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
Note :- You can confirm whether the course you followed is offered by an institution and program registered with the 
Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission by accessing the website www.tvec.gov.lk. 
(c) Physical fitness:
Every applicant should be physically and mentally fit enough to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and to perform duties 
of the post.
(d) Other qualifications :
 i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. The Grama Niladhari Officer must certify that the applicant is of good character.
 iii. Both female/male can apply.
 iv. Should have fulfilled all the qualifications mentioned in 3(a) and (b) as at 15.08.2025 in every aspect. 

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1388
(e) If any applicants with special needs are appearing for this examination, it is compulsory to mention it in the application, 
and copies of the relevant medical certificates must be submitted along with the printed copy of the application.
(f) The following outlines the district-based recruitment for 600 vacancies.
District Number of vacancies
Colombo 204
Gampaha 42
Kalutara 27
Kandy 60
Matale 11
Nuwara Eliya 15
Galle 21
Hambantota 10
Matara 11
Jaffna 8
Kilinochchi 1
Mannar 3
Mullaitivu 1
Vavuniya 2
Ampara 11
Batticaloa 12
Trincomalee 5
Kurunegala 30
Puttalam 18
Anuradhapura 17
Polonnaruwa 09
Badulla 28
Monaragala 11
Kegalle 18
Ratnapura 25
Total 600
(g) Qualifications to belong to a district
To be eligible to compete for a vacancy in a specific district, the applicant must meet at least one of the following.
 i. The applicant was born in that district or has been a permanent resident of that district for at least three 
consecutive years within the five years immediately prior to the closing date for fulfilling the qualifications 
required for the examination, or
 ii. He/She has received secondary education in that district for a continuous period of five years
Note – 
 i. If an applicant’s father or mother is serving in a transferable position in the government, provincial public 
service, or a public corporation, the applicant is permitted to select the birthplace of either parent as the district 
they belong to. 

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1389
 ii. An applicant is not permitted to compete for vacancies in more than one district. Once a district is selected, it 
cannot be changed later. 
4. Examination centers 
•	 The examination will be conducted only at examination centers established in the following cities. The city and 
city number for which the applicant wishes to sit the examination must be correctly indicated in the application as 
specified below and the changes to the selected city will not be permitted later.
•	 Two preferred cities may be indicated in the application and if an adequate number of candidates has not applied for 
a particular city, applicants will be assigned to an examination centerestablished in another nearby city.
•	 Further, if adequate number of candidates have not applied for the establishment of examination centers in all or 
more of the proposed cities, the Department of Examinations will conduct the examination only in Colombo. 
Examination centers  
     
District/City District/City Number District/City District/City Number
Colombo 01 Kilinochchi 14
Gampaha 02 Batticaloa 15
Kalutara 03 Ampara 16
Kandy 04 Trincomalee 17
Matale 05 Kurunegala 18
Nuwara Eliya 06 Puttalam 19
Galle 07 Anuradhapura 20
Matara 08 Polonnaruwa 21
Hambantota 09 Badulla 22
Jaffna 10 Monaragala 23
Mannar 11 Ratnapura 24
Vavuniya 12 Kegalle 25
Mullaitivu 13
5. Method of Recruitment:
 i. Applicants who pass both papers of the written examination conducted on a district basis will be selected to fill 
the existing vacancies in each district, based on their district ranking according to the total marks obtained at the 
examination. (Subject to the condition that they may be transferred to any area of the island depending on service 
requirements.)
 ii. In the event that all vacancies in a particular district cannot be filled, the remaining vacancies will be filled based 
on the ranking of applicants from other districts within the same province.
 iii. If there are still vacancies remaining after applying criteria (i) and (ii) above, such vacancies may be filled according 
to the overall ranking of all applicants, without considering the district basis.
	An Officer recruited under the district basis is not eligible to transfer outside the appointed district until the 
completion of at least 10 years of service within that district.
	However, the appointing authority reserves the right to transfer an Officer outside the district at any time, 
based on service requirements or under exceptional circumstances. 
6. Age :
Applicants must be not less than 18 years and not more than 30 years of age as at the closing date for applications. 
(Accordingly, only those born on or before 15.08.2007 and on or after 15.08.1995 are eligible to apply)

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1390
7. Salary Scale:
 The monthly salary scale as per the Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 (PSO 2 – 2025) is Rs. 54,650 – 10 x 800 
– 10 x 1,119. (No maximum) 
8. Method of Application
 a) Online application forms for examination should be completed only in English language. It will be informed by SMS 
to the mobile phone number used to access the system or to the E-mail address, that the application submitted via 
online by the applicant was accepted/not accepted by the Department. Before completing the online application, it is 
required to download the instructions prepared for applying for the examination. The instructions given therein shall 
strictly be followed when filling the application form. Incomplete applications will be rejected without any notice.
 b) The applicant shall bear any consequences arising from the late submission of the application by the closing date.
 c) Applicants should prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they sit in the examination 
hall. Only the following documents will be accepted for that purpose.
 I. National Identity Card 
 II. Valid Passport
 III. Valid Sri Lankan Driving License
Further, candidates must enter the examination hall without covering their faces, so that their identity can be 
confirmed, and without covering their ears, to ensure that no communication devices are being worn. Those who 
refuse to prove their identity will not be allowed to enter the examination hall. Moreover, the candidates should 
remain without covering the face and the ears from the moment they enter the examination hall until they leave the 
hall after examination.
9. Paying Examination Fee:
 Examination fee is Rs.600/-. When paying the examination fees, the payment shall be made only under the following 
payment methods provided through the online system.
 i. Through any Bank Credit Card
 ii. Any Bank Debit Card with the facility of Internet Transactions
 iii. Online Banking Method of Bank of Ceylon
 iv. Any Branch of the Bank of Ceylon
Note : 
a) Instructions on how to make payments through the above methods are published on the website under the technical 
instructions related to the examination.
b) Receipt of payment will be notified via SMS or e-mail. The full amount of examination fee shall be paid and 
applications with under or over payment of examination fee will be rejected. The Department of Examinations 
– Sri Lanka will not be held responsible for any errors occurring in the payment of examination fees through the 
abovementioned payment methods.
c) The amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred for any other examination by no means.
10. The Commissioner General of examinations will issue the admission cards only through Online to the applicants who 
have paid the prescribed examination fee, submitted the duly completed online applications on or before the closing 
date of applications, on the presumption that only the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications referred to in the 
Gazette notification haveforwarded the applications. The Department of Examinations will notify the applicants via 
a web notice / SMS immediately after the issuance of admissions. If an admission card is not received, the applicant 
should inquire with the Institutional Examination Organization Branch of the Department of Examinations as indicated 
in the notice. It is recommended to send an email to the email address provided in the notification, including a request 

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1391
letter with the examination name, the applicant’s full name, National Identity Card number, and address. Keeping a copy 
of the completed application and a copy of the receipt obtained on payment of the examination fee will be useful to 
verify any information requested by the Department of Examinations. The issuance of an admission to an applicant for 
the examination is not considered as an acceptance that he or she has fulfilled the qualifications to sit the examination.
The admission should be carefully checked, and if there are any corrections to be made, they must be done in advance 
by contacting the Department of Examinations in accordance with the application. Requests for amendments made at 
the examination hall or during the interview will not be considered.
11. Conditions of Engagement and Service Conditions
a) This post is permanent. Pensionable. Officers are subjected to any policy decision taken in future by the Government 
in connection to the pension scheme entitled to the position.
b) If the selected applicants are not confirmed in another Government service position at that time, they will be 
appointed to the relevant post on a three-year probationary period. If he is already holding a permanent and 
pensionable post in Government service, the appointment will be subjected to a one-year acting period.
12. Examination Method:
The examination consists of two written papers as mentioned below: 
Paper Time Total marks Pass marks
01 Language Proficiency 01 ½ hours 100 40%
02 Aptitude Test 01 hour 100 40%
Name of the paper Syllabus
01 Language Proficiency This paper includes writing an essay and a summary. It assesses the 
candidate’s ability to express opinions, organize and present ideas, 
their understanding of language, spelling and basic grammar.
It measures knowledge of synonyms and antonyms, and strategies 
used in language usage.
Candidates will be asked to explain the meaning of words in a single 
sentence based on a given text, write explanatory notes on that, select 
the most appropriate statement from a set of alternatives, and choose 
the correct answer from several options. 
All questions must be answered.
02 Aptitude Test This paper is designed to assess the candidate’s logical reasoning, 
analytical skills, ability to draw accurate inferences, general 
knowledge and intelligence. This paper consists of multiple-choice 
questions covering numerical ability, mathematical problems, general 
knowledge, environmental and related topics.
In order to pass 40% or above marks must be obtained in each paper.
13. Method of Selection:
a) Eligible candidates for these positions will be selected after an interview conducted to verify the qualifications 
mentioned in paragraph 03 above. (No marks will be awarded for the interview and only qualifications will be 
checked.)

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1392
b) Candidates will be called for the interview based on their district rankings in the written examination and the 
applicants who do not possess the required qualifications as specified in the notification by the closing date of 
applications will not be eligible for an appointment.
c) Applicants will be selected to fill the prescribed number of vacancies in each district according to a priority list 
prepared based on the marks obtained in the written examination and the recommendations of the interview board, 
beginning with the highest-ranked candidate in each district.
d) The result sheet, including the total marks of candidates who have obtained not less than 40% for each subject, 
prepared according to district rankings, will be submitted to the Postmaster General by the Department of 
Examinations. Additionally, the results will either be personally notified to each candidate who sat for the 
examination or published on the website of the Department of Examination www.results.exams.gov.lk.
14. Applicants will be liable to rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of Examination in relevant to 
conducting examination and issuance of results. If in case of violation of such rules and regulations, he/she will be liable 
to any penalty imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
15. Furnishing False Information: 
If an applicant is found not to have the required qualifications to appear for this examination, their candidature may be 
cancelled before, during, or after the examination, or at any time. If any information submitted by a candidate is found 
to be false, he/she may be dismissed from service even after recruitment.
The final decision on the facts not mentioned here, shall be the decision of the Postmaster General.
16. In the event of any inconsistency between the languages of this notification which is published in Sinhala, Tamil and 
English, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
 Chamisha De Silv a,  S.R.W.M.R.P. Sathkumara,
 Deputy Postmaster General (Administration).  Postmaster General.  
        
07-811
________________________________
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION, PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL  AND  LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT
Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 1, Grade II of Class 1 and Grade I 
of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service – 2019(II)2025
1.0 It is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in Grade III of Class 1, Grade II of Class 1 and Grade 
I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service - 2019(II)2025 will be held in Colombo 
on the 13.09.2025 and 14.09.2025, by the Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, 
under the supervision of the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government. 
2.0 These examinations shall be held as per the provisions of the Minute of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1393
3.0 Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services will be as follows:
Serial 
No. Name of  the Examination       Code
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service     SLICT 1(III)
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service     SLICT1(II)
3. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service     SLICT 1(I)
4.0 The candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of 
Development Administration with regard to this examination. Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules.
5.0 Applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk, the official web site of the Sri Lanka 
Institute of Development Administration. A User Account should be created through “Apply for Examination” that 
appears at the top of the home page of the website or by logging in directly to https://examinationportal.slida.lk  and 
then the relevant application can be filled out. 
Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m. on 25.07.2025  up to 4.00 p.m. on 08.08.2025.
6.0 Examination Fees - The officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination fees. 
However, for subsequent sittings, officers should pay Rs. 500/- if they sit for more than one subject and they are 
required to pay Rs. 300/- if they sit for only one subject.
II. Examination fees should be credited to the following bank account:
 Name of the account – Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local 
Government
 Account number – 310100119027430
 Bank – Peoples’ Bank, Bambalapitiya Branch
 The receipt number relevant to the payment should be mentioned in the application and a photocopy of that 
receipt should be uploaded in the relevant place of the application.
III. Further, when crediting money to the account, the money deposit slip should be filled by entering the 
applicant’s name along with the applicant’s national identity card number as the payer and the code of the 
examination relevant to you as the reason for depositing the money (the codes should be as mentioned in 
Section 03). The officers who make the payment online should also mention the above particulars in the 
relevant places.
Note
This examination is conducted for the officers in Executive Category of the Government. Therefore, it is 
expected from the candidates that they will include accurate details when submitting their applications and pay 
the examination fees properly as required. Therefore, necessary action shall be taken against the applicants if 
instances such as inaccurately including important details such as the name and National Identity Card number 
of the applicant, submitting several applications by the same applicant, selecting an irrelevant service for the 
examination, including false information concerning the sitting of the examination and non-payment of the 
examination fees, are revealed. It is emphasized that the said action may be suspension of examination results, 
cancellation of candidature or other disciplinary punishments imposed after calling for explanation.

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1394
7.0 When filling out the application online, it is compulsory for the applicant to have an active email address and 
mobile number. Once the application is submitted online, a message acknowledging receipt of the same will be sent 
to that email address and mobile number. 
 After the screening of applications is completed, you can download the admission card by logging into the User Account 
created by you. You will be informed the same via SMS.
 It should be noted that admission cards will be sent to the applicants only via email.  
8.0 The contact numbers 011-5980264, 011-5980225, 011-5980236 of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration 
are available for any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications from 8.30 a.m up to 4.30 p.m during 
working days of the week from 25.07.2025 up to 08.08.2025.  
9.0 Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for the 
examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the Telephone Number  
011-5980264. Candidates shall not be paid travelling expenses for appearing for the examination.  
10.0 Identity of Candidates - Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each subject they offer.  For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the 
supervisor:
 (i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department for Registration of Persons,
 (ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion 
of the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
11.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. The officers shall sit for this examination in the 
language medium in which they have sat for the examination for entering into the relevant service or in an official 
language. The officers who have joined the service without a competitive examination shall sit for this examination in 
the language medium of education or an official language. Candidates shall not be allowed change language medium 
applied initially. 
12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.  
13.0 The results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the Ministry of Public Administration, Home Affairs, 
Provincial Councils and Local Government once the results are issued by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute 
of Development Administration to the Secretary. The relevant Heads of Departments shall make recommendations for 
confirmation of service and promotions of the officers according to the results.
14.0 Scheme of Examination: Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as follows:-
14.1 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 13 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade III of Class 1 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Public Service, to sit for this 
examination.  
Subject Subject 
No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
Prescribed for a pass
Establishments Code  and administration 01 100 03 hours 40
Financial Regulations and Public Sector 
Financial Management 02 100 03 hours 40
Management and organization 03 100 03 hours 40
                   

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1395
14.1.1 Establishments Code and administration (Subject No.- 01)
A question paper based on the following.
 (i) Organizing office and field activities and methods of organization. 
  (ii) The following chapters of the Establishments Code
  I, II, III, V , VI, VII, IX, XI, XXIII, XXV , XXVI, XXVII, XXVIII, XXIX, XXX, XXXI, XXXII, 
XXXIII, XLVII and XLVIII
 (iii) Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission.
  This question paper consists of essay type questions.
14.1.2 Financial Regulations and Public Sector Financial Management (Subject No.- 02)
 One question paper based on the following.
(a) Fiscal Governance in Sri Lanka,  Constitutional Provisions Relating to Public Financial 
Management, Parliamentary  Control Over Public Finance, Meaning of Fund, Consolidated 
Fund and its operation, Meaning and Methods of Appropriation, Contingencies Fund, Other 
Funds and their Operation, Government Revenue, Powers and Functions of the Minister 
of Finance, Warrants and Impress Authority, Auditor General, his Powers and Functions, 
Committee on Public Expenditure, Committee on Public Enterprises. 
(b) Appointment of Accounting Officer, Chief Accounting Officers and Revenue Accounting 
Officers and their powers and functions. 
(c) Internal Audit
(d) Public Expenditure Planning and Management, Identification of Organizational Objectives 
and Functions, Identification of Government Policies, Goals, Targets and the Programmes, 
Planning and Appraisal of Development Projects and Programmes and Prioritization of them, 
Formulation and Finalization of Annual Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure. 
(e) Variations of Approval Estimates of Expenditure, Application of Virement Procedure, 
Management of Public Sector Cadres and Salaries, Total Cost Estimates and Revisions, 
Supplementary Estimates. 
(f) Losses and Waivers of Government Properties 
(g) Miscellaneous Accounting Matters   
(h) Delegation of Functions for Financial Control.
(i) Custody of Public Money and Bank Accounts Procedure 
(j) Government procurement Procedure, procurement of Goods, Services and Works; 
Composition, Appointment, Powers and Functions of Procurement Boards and Technical 
Evaluation Committees, Procurement Evaluation Procedure, Management of Donor Funded 
Projects. This question paper shall consist of essay type questions. 
14.1.3  Management and organization (Subject No. 03)
 One question paper based on following 
(a) The principles of management and organization 
(b) The Application of these principles to problems and issues in the public sector 
(c) The modern tools and techniques of management 
This question paper shall consist of essay type questions.  

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1396
14.2 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 14 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 1 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Public Service, to sit for this 
examination.
Subject Subject 
No. Mark Duration
Cut - off 
marks 
Prescribed 
for  a pass
Office management 04 100 01 hour 40
E- government concept 
and Information 
Technology 
Management 
Question paper I- Multiple 
Choice Questions 05 - I 40 01 hour 16
Question paper II – Essay type 05 - II 60 01 hour 24
14.2.1  Office Management (Subject No. 04)
Providing answers based on a given case in relation to management of human and physical resources 
of an office in public sector.
14.2.2 E- government concept and Information Technology Management (Subject No. 05) 
(a) Question paper I- Multiple Choice Questions (Subject No. 05-I)
 e-government concepts will consist of evolution of the e-Government system, its’ stages, 
Basic elements of e-Government, e-Services and e-Government projects, state Information 
and Communication Technology Infrastructure, critical success factors of e-Government, 
e-Government Management Interoperability and Service Oriented Architecture.
  
(b) Question paper II – Essay type (Subject No. 05-II)
 Information Technology Management will consist of life cycle of Information Technology 
Projects, Importance of each stage and requirement of specific resources, Basic principles of 
Information Technology management, Information Technology Resources management, Risks 
of Information Technology projects and minimizing them. 
14.3 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 1 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 15 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 1 of  
Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Public Service, to sit for 
this examination.
Subject Subject 
No. Marks Duration`
Cut-of marks 
Prescribed      
for a pass
Information and 
Communication 
Technology Project
Project Report 06-I 60 - 30
Presentation of the 
Project Report  
06-II 40
30 minutes for 
the Presentation 
including 
Questions and 
answers session. 
20
                                           
          

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1397
14.3.1 Project Report (Subject No. 06 - I)
 Preparation of a project report of not less than Fifteen thousand (15, 000) words related to the subject 
filed of information and Communication Technology, Which can be practically applied to enhance the 
productivity of offices of public sector in Sri Lanka.
14.3.2   Presentation of Project Report (Subject No. 06 - II) 
 Presentation to the panel of examiners and answering the questions raised by the panel of examiners. 
The time table for each subject of each examination is as follows;
Serial 
No.
Name of the 
examination Subject Subject  
No. Date Time
01
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations 
for Officers in 
Grade III of Class 
1 of Sri Lanka 
Information and 
Communication 
Technology Service
Establishments Code and 
administration 01 13.09.2025 9.30 a.m -12.30 p.m. 
Financial Regulations and 
financial management in public 
sector
02 13.09.2025 1.30 p.m – 4.30 p.m.
Management and organization 
03 14.09.2025 1.00 p.m. – 4.00 p.m. 
02
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations 
for Officers in 
Grade II of Class 
1 of Sri Lanka 
Information and 
Communication 
Technology Service
Office Management 04 14.09.2025 9.30 a.m. – 10.30 a.m. 
e- government 
concept and 
information 
technology 
management 
Question 
paper I - 
MCQ
05-I
14.09.2025 11.00 a.m. – 1.00 p.m. 
Question 
paper II – 
Essay type
05-II
03
Efficiency Bar 
Examinations 
for Officers in 
Grade I of Class 
1 of Sri Lanka 
Information and 
Communication 
Technology Service
Information and 
Communication               
Technology 
Project
Project 
Report 06-I
Candidates will be informed the time 
schedule for the submission of the project 
report and the presentation of the project 
report after the closing date of application 
by the Director General of Sri Lanka 
Institute of Development Administration. 
Presentation 
of the 
Project 
Report
06-II
15.0 Any matter not provided for in this examination notification, the decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of Public 
Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government shall be the final.
16.0 In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this   notification, the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
  S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils  
 and Local Government.
16th  of July 2025,
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils, 
and Local Government,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07. 
07-816

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1398
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS  AND  LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT
Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 3, Grade II of Class 3, Grade I of Class 3, 
Grade II of Class 2 and Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication Technology 
Service - 2019(II)2025
1.0 IT is hereby notified that Efficiency Bar Examinations for the officers in Grade III of Class 3, Grade II of Class 3, 
Grade I of Class 3, Grade II of Class 2 and Grade I of Class 2 of the Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service - 2019(II)2025 will be held in Colombo on the 13.09.2025, 14.09.2025 and 20.09.2025 by the 
Director General of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration, under the supervision of the Ministry of 
Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government. 
2.0  (a) These Examinations shall be held as per the provisions of the Minute of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service published in the Gazette Extraordinary No. 1894/26 dated 26.12.2014.
 (b) If there are officers who have not passed the Efficiency Bar Examination, because no prescription has been 
made either in the procedure of recruitment of the previous post or in the letter of appointment in respect of the 
Efficiency Bar, they shall pass the Efficiency Bar Examination prescribed for the Grade of the relevant Class within 
a concessionary period of three years from the date on which above Service Minute has been published in the 
Gazette notification.
3.0 Efficiency Bar Examinations which are due to be held in respect of the above services will be as follows:-
Serial 
No: Name of  the Examination Code
1. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service SLICT 3(III)
2. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service SLICT 3(II)
3. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service SLICT 3(I)
4. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service SLICT 2(II)
5. Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka 
Information and Communication Technology Service SLICT 2(I)
4.0 The candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations imposed by the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of 
Development Administration with regard to this examination. Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed 
by Disciplinary Authority for violation of these rules.
5.0 Applications for the examination can strictly be made online through www.slida.lk , the official web site of the  
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. A User Account should be created through “Apply for Examination” 
that appears at the top of the home page of the website or by logging in directly to https://examinationportal.slida.lk and 
then the relevant application can be filled out. 
 Filling of applications is strictly allowed during the period from 8.00 a.m on 25.07.2025  up to 4.00 p.m. on 08.08.2025.
6.0 I. Examination Fees .- The officers appearing for the examination for the first time need not pay the examination 
fees. However, for subsequent sittings, officers should pay Rs. 500/- if they sit for more than one subject and they 
are required to pay Rs. 300/- if they sit for only one subject.

<!-- page 21 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1399
 II. Examination fees should be credited to the following bank account.
Name of the account – Secretary, Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government
Account number – 310100119027430
Bank – Peoples’ Bank, Bambalapitiya branch
The receipt number relevant to the payment should be mentioned in the application and a photocopy of that receipt 
should be uploaded in the relevant place of the application.
III. Further, when crediting money to the account, the money deposit slip should be filled by entering the applicant’s 
name along with the applicant’s national identity card number as the payer and the code of the examination relevant 
to you as the reason for depositing the money (the codes should be as mentioned in Section 03). The officers who 
make the payment online should also mention the above particulars in the relevant places.
Note :
This examination is conducted for public officers. Therefore, it is expected from the candidates that they 
will include accurate details when submitting their applications and pay the examination fees properly as 
required. Therefore, necessary action shall be taken against the applicants if instances such as inaccurately 
including important details such as the name and National Identity Card number of the applicant, submitting 
several applications by the same applicant, selecting an irrelevant service for the examination, including false 
information concerning the sitting of the examination and non-payment of the examination fees, are revealed. 
It is emphasized that the said action may be suspension of examination results, cancellation of candidature or 
other disciplinary punishments imposed after calling for explanation.
7.0 When filling out the application online, it is compulsory for the applicant to have an active email address and 
mobile number. Once the application is submitted online, a message acknowledging receipt of the same will be sent 
to that email address and mobile number. 
 After the screening of applications is completed, you can download the admission card by logging into the User 
Account created by you. You will be informed the same via SMS.
 It should be noted that admission cards will be sent to the applicants only via email.
8.0 The contact numbers 011-5980264, 011-5980225, 011-5980236 of the Sri Lanka Institute of Development 
Administration are available for any clarification regarding the process for submitting applications from 8.30 a.m up 
to 4.30 p.m during working days of the week from 25.07.2025 up to 08.08.2025.  
9.0 Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for the officers who possess admissions enabling them to sit for 
the examination. If it is required to get their candidature confirmed, it can be done through the telephone number  
011-5980264. Candidates shall not be paid traveling expenses for appearing for the examination.  
10.0 Identity of Candidates - Candidates will be required to prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of 
the supervisor for each subject they offer.  For this purpose one of the following documents should be submitted to the 
supervisor:-
 (i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons;
 (ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion 
of the Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration.
11.0 The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium. The officers shall sit for this examination in the 
language medium in which they have sat for the examination for entering into the relevant service or in an official 
language. The officers who have joined the service without a competitive examination shall sit for this examination in 

<!-- page 22 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1400
the language medium of education or an official language. Candidates shall not be allowed change language medium 
applied initially.
12.0 The officers may, on their discretion can appear for each subject of the examination at different sittings.  
13.0 The results of the examination shall be published in the web site of the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial 
Councils and Local Government by the Director General of Combined Services once the results are issued by the 
Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration. The relevant Heads of Departments shall 
make recommendations for confirmation of service and promotions of the officers according to the results.
14.0 Scheme of Examination: Subjects and the syllabus of each Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers are as follows. 
14.1 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 8 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade III of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Combined Service, to sit for 
this examination.
 
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
prescribed for a pass  
Establishments Code 01 100 01 hour 40
Financial Regulation 02 100 01 hour 40
           
14.1.1 Establishments Code (Subject No. - 01)
It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the public officer on the Establishments Code and 
Procedural Rules of Public Service Commission. The question paper consists of questions for short 
answers and structured questions. All the questions shall be answered. 
14.1.2 Financial Regulations (Subject No. - 02)
It is expected to measure the basic knowledge of the officer on Financial Regulations and Store 
management and the understanding on the activities related to cash control registers. The question 
paper consists of questions for short answers and structured questions. All the questions shall be 
answered. 
14.2 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 9 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Combined Service, to sit for 
this examination.
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut - off marks 
Prescribed for a pass
Office systems and 
procedure 03 100 02 hours 40
Information and 
Communication    
Technology
04 100 03 hours 40
14.2.1 Office systems and procedure (Subject No. - 03)
It is expected to measure the knowledge of the candidates on the office systems applied in public 
offices and ability to apply them. The question paper consists of structured questions. All the questions 
shall be answered. 

<!-- page 23 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1401
14.2.2 Information and Communication Technology (Subject No. - 04)
It is expected to test the knowledge of the candidates on the wider application of ICT and the common 
concepts ICT in public offices. (The method of application of  ICT  in  government  organizations. The 
papers will be consisted following ICT areas such as adequate knowledge on Computer Networks and 
Data Communication, knowledge on General Purpose Software and Specific Application Software, 
Knowledge on Data Security and Backing up SW, Basic measure to enhance availability of computer 
systems and Data security) 
This paper consist of two parts.
Part I – A multiple choice question paper. Duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
Part II – Essay type question paper. Duration 02 hours. (60 Marks)
14.3 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 10 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 3 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Combined Service, to sit for 
this examination. 
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration
Cut-off marks 
prescribed for a
pass
Information and Communication
Technology (Written Test) 05 50 01 hour 20
Information and Communication
Technology (Practical Test) 06 50 01 hour 20
              
14.3.1 Information and Communication Technology – Written Test (Subject No. 05)
 I. Application of software for office activities and knowledge in this regard
 II. Knowledge in computer networking
 III. Knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer Software/ Hardware
This question paper consists of questions for short answers and essay type questions. All the questions 
shall be answered.    
14.3.2 Information and Communication Technology – Practical Test (Subject No. 06)
 I. Practical knowledge in using software for office activities
 II. Practical Knowledge in computer networking 
 III. Practical knowledge in identification and rectification of errors in computer  Software/ 
Hardware 
 
14.4 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 11 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade II of Class 2 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Combined Service, to sit for 
this examination. 
Subject Subject No. Marks Duration Cut – off marks prescribed 
for a pass
Establishments Code 07 100 02 hours 40
Financial Regulations 08 100 02 hours 40
                               

<!-- page 24 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1402
14.4.1 Establishments Code (Subject No. 07)
It is expected to test the general knowledge of the officer on provisions in Establishments Code/ 
Procedural rules of the Public Service Commission and his/her ability to apply his/ her knowledge 
practically. This paper shall be prepared based on Chapters of V olume I and V olume II of the 
Establishments Code and Procedural rules of the Public Service Commission. This question paper 
consists of questions for short answers and structured type questions. All the questions shall be 
answered. 
14.4.2 Financial Regulations (Subject No. 08)
It is expected to test basic knowledge and understanding of the candidate on Government Financial 
Regulations and the purposes of various registers and log books maintained in public office and 
basis knowledge of store keeping. This question paper consists of questions for short answers and 
structured type questions. All the questions shall be answered.   
14.5 Efficiency Bar Examinations for Officers in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri Lanka Information and Communication 
Technology Service (Schedule 12 of the service minute). The officers shall be in Grade I of Class 2 of Sri 
Lanka Information and Communication Technology Service, which belongs to Combined Service, to sit for 
this examination. 
Subject Subject 
No. Marks Duration Cut – off marks prescribed 
for a pass
Office Systems and procedure 09 100 02 hours 40
Information and Communication 
Technology and e-government
10 100 03 hours 40
                        
14.5.1 Office Systems and procedure (Subject No. 09)
 It is expected to test the knowledge of the candidate on office systems applied in government offices 
and also to test the ability to apply the same. This question paper consist of multiple choice questions, 
questions for short answers and structured type questions. All the questions shall be answered.  
14.5.2 Information and Communication Technology and e-government (Subject No. 10)
This question consists of two parts. 
Part I    - A multiple choice question paper. Duration is 01 hour. (40 marks)
Part II  - A question paper consisting of structured essay type questions. Duration is 02 hours.  
(60 marks)
(All questions shall be answered)
This question paper shall be designed to cover the following subject fields.
(a) Information and Communication part of the paper consists of basic elements of IT project life 
cycle such as systems analysis, systems design, software development, testing user acceptance 
testing and related areas of Algorithms, HTML, XTML, php, Data and Information Security, 
Disaster Recovery, systems, Intellectual Property Rights and Software licensing, Free and Open 
Source Software, and web 2.0.
(b) e-Government part of the paper consist of system of application of ICT in government 
organizations, application of ICT to enhance the efficiency in delivery of public services, 
Technology requirements for e-Government systems, basic elements of ICT and Interoperability.

<!-- page 25 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'25
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.07.2025
1403
The time table for each subject of each examination is as follows:
Serial 
No. Name of the examination Subject Subject 
No. Date Time
01
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade III of Class 
3 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology 
Service
Establishments 
Code
01 2025.09.14  9.30 a.m. - 10.30 a.m.
Financial 
Regulations 02 2025.09.14 11.00  a.m.- 12.00 noon
02 Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade II of Class 
3 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology 
Service
Office Systems and 
procedure 03 2025.09.13 9.30 a.m.- 12.30 p.m.
Information and 
Communication 
Technology
04 2025.09.13 1.00 p.m. - 4.00 p.m.
03
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade I of Class 
3 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology 
Service
Information and 
Communication 
Technology 
(Written Test)
05 2025.09.20 9.30 a.m. - 10.30 a.m.
Information and 
Communication 
Technology
(Practical Test)
06 2025.09.20 11.00 a.m. - 12.00 noon
04
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade II of Class 
2 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology 
Service
Establishments 
Code 07 2025.09.14 9.30 a.m. - 11.30 a.m.
Financial 
Regulations 08 2025.09.14  12.00  noon - 2.00 p.m.
05
Efficiency Bar Examinations 
for Officers in Grade I of Class 
2 of Sri Lanka Information and 
Communication Technology 
Service
Office systems and 
procedure 09 2025.09.14 9.30 a.m. - 11.30 a.m.
Information and 
Communication 
Technology and 
e-government
10 2025.09.14 12.00 noon - 3.00 p.m.
15.0 Any matter not referred to herein will be decided by Director General of Combined Services.
16.0  In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this  notification,   the Sinhala text 
shall prevail.
  N.U. Nishan Mendis,
  Director General of Combined Services, 
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils and Local  
 Government.
Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial Councils, 
 and Local Government, 
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
16th of July 2025.
07-817
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.