

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
1
1
wxl 1"896 - 2015 ckjdß ui 02 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'01'02
No. 1,896 – FRIDAY , JANUARY 02, 2015
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 4
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 4
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 23rd January, 2015 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 09th
January, 2015.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette .”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2015.
This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
2
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
3
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqu alification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
4
Posts – Vacant
REGISTRAR   GENERAL’S   DEPARTMENT
Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths
COLOMBO  DISTRICT
APPLICATIONS are invited for the Posts of Registrars of Marriages, Births and Deaths in the Divisions set out in the Schedule h ereto.
01. Applicants should be permanent residents of the said Births, Deaths and Marriages Registration Divisions and should be
entitled to properties and have acquired sufficient interest and influence in the area.
02. Both male and female can apply for these Posts.
03. Applicants should be not less than 30 years and not more than 60 years of age.
04. Applicants should be married.
05.  Details regarding Educational and other Qualifications etc., could be obtained from the notices exhibited in public places
such as District Secretariats, Land and District Registries, Divisional Secretaries Offices, Grama Niladhari Offices, Rural Dev elopment
Societies and Co-operative Societies in the Division.
06. Application forms are obtainable from the Offices of District Secretaries (Government Agents) and Land and District
Registries. Completed applications should be sent by registered post to the address given in the Schedule on or before 02.02.20 15.
E. M. G
UNASEKERA,
Registrar General.
Registrar General’s Department,
No. 234/A3, Denzil Kobbekaduwa Mawatha,
Battaramulla,
12th December, 2014.
S
CHEDULE
District Divisional Secretariat Post and Division for which Address to which
Division Applications are called Applications should be sent
Colombo Sri Post of Medical Registrar of Births and Di strict Secretary/Additional Registrar
Jayawardhanapura Deaths of Sri Jayawardhanapura General District Secretariat,
Kotte North Division Narahenpita, Colombo 05.
01–91
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION   FOR  OFFICERS
IN GRADE  II  OF  PUBLIC  MANAGEMENT
ASSISTANTS' SERVICE - 2012(1) 2014
IT is hereby notified that an Efficiency Bar Examination for the
officers in Grade II of Public Management Assistants' Service will
be held by the Commissioner - General of Examinations in the
month of April, 2015 as per provisions of Para 8, para 15, interim
provisions . and provisions in Annex 05 of the approved service
minute of Public Management Assistants' Service published in the
Government Gazette of the Democratic Socialists Republic of Sri
Lanka bearing No. 1840/34 dated 11.12.2013.
2.0 (i) Officers who have not completed the Efficiency Bar
Examination for the officers in Grade II, mentioned in the
previous service minute, but have passed or exempted
from either both or one of the subjects of this examination
namely (1) Office Systems and Procedures (2) Accounting
Systems used in the Government Offices shall be exempted
from the relevant subjects of the Efficiency Bar

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
5
Examination for officers in Grade II mentioned in this
Service Minute, on subject to subject basis.
(ii) Officers who have been promoted to Grade II before the
date of implementation of this Service Minute, should
pass the Efficiency Bar Examination relevant to Grade II
before the lapse of six (06) years from the date of
promotion.
3.0 This examination for officers in Grade II of the Public
Management Assistants' Service will be held in Colombo, Kandy,
Galle, Matara, Jaffna, Mannar, Mullaitivu, Trincomalee, Batticaloa,
Kurunegala, Anuradhapura, Badulla, Ratnapura and Killinochchi.
The list of relevant towns and town numbers are given below. The
Commissioner - General of Examinations reserves the right to cancel
any center due to insufficiency of candidates or any other reason
and decide an alternative as per the candidate's second preference
of towns. The relevant section of the application should be filled
by referring to the table of towns and town numbers given below. It
will not be allowed to change subsequently the town/ towns
indicated.
Town  Town No.
Colombo 01
Kandy 05
Galle 07
Matara 08
Jaffna 10
Mannar 11
Mullaitivu 12
Trincomalee 14
Batticaloa 15
Kurunegala 18
Anuradhapura 19
Badulla 21
Ratnapura 24
Killinochchi 25
4.0 (i) This examination will be conducted by the
Commissioner-General of Examinations and the
candidates will be bound by the rules and regulations
imposed by him with regard to the same.
(ii) The rules and regulations for candidates have been
separately printed in the Gazette Notification.
Candidates will be subjected to any punishment imposed
by the Commissioner - General of Examinations for
violation of these rules and regulations.
5.0 Eligibility.– Officers who have been appointed to posts in
Grade II of Public Management Assistants' Service are eligible to
appear for this examination. This examination should be passed
within three years from the date of promotion to Grade II.
Note: Provisions for provincial Management Assistants'
Service shall be issued by the relevant Provincial Public
Service Commissions and provisions shall be issued by
the relevant institutions for other institutions
concurrently to this Gazette Notification.
In order to identify the applications of the officers in each provincial
public service and other institutions, conveniently code number
should be used. Accordingly, for the 
officers in combined service
code number is 10. This number should be entered in the upper
right side of the application where you have to mention the service
you belong to.
6.0 The application for this examination should be in the form
of the specimen appended to this notification and should be prepared
by the candidate him/her self. Applications should be sent by the
Registered post through the respective Heads of Departments to
reach the
Commissioner - General of Examinations,
Organization and Foreign Examinations Branch,
Department of Examinations,
P. o. 1503,
Colombo.
on or before 02nd February, 2015. The name of the examination
should be indicated at the top left hand corner of the envelope
containing the application. Applications received after the closing
date will be rejected. Incomplete applications, too, will not be
accepted.
7.0 Identity of the Candidates.–  Candidates will be required to
prove their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose one of the
following documents should be submitted to the supervisor.
(i) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registrations of Persons ;
(ii) A valid Passport.
The candidature of those who fail to produce any of the above-
mentioned documents may be cancelled at the discretion of the
Commissioner - General of Examinations. All candidates are bound
to comply with the rules and regulations imposed by the
Commissioner General of Examination with regard to the conducting
of this examination. Further, candidates will be subjected to the
punishment imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for violation of those rules and regulations.
8.0  Applications.- Applications should be prepared in a paper
of "A4" size in such a manner that Para Nos. 1.0 to 5.0 appears on
the first page. The application could be typewritten but it should
be filled in correctly and legibly by candidate's own handwriting.
Application should strictly conform to the specimen appended
and candidates are advised not to send more than one application or
photocopies. Applications that do not comply with the specimen
and that have not been perfected properly will be rejected without
notice. Please indicate the title of the examination appearing the
specimen in English language as well, on both Sinhala and Tamil
application forms. It is the responsibility of the candidate to make
sure that the application form perfected by him/her self complies
with the specimen given in the examination notice and further it
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
6
Officers appearing for the examination for the first time need
not pay examination fees. However, for subsequent sittings,
Rs. 400 for the whole examination and Rs. 200 for only one subject
should be paid at any post-office/sub post office island-wide to be
credited to revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations. The receipt obtained thus should be affixed to the
relevant cage of the applications form. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the receipt with the candidate. It will not be allowed
to transfer the fee paid for this examination in favour of another.
9.0 The Commissioner - General of Examinations will issue
admission cards along with copies of the time table and to all
candidates whose applications have been received. A notification
will be published in newspapers as soon as the admission cards are
issued to the candidates by the Department of Examinations. If the
admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days of such
advertisement, steps should be taken to notify the Department of
Examinations in the manner specified in the advertisement. It would
be advisable to keep the following in hand at the time of calling the
Department of Examinations: i.e. A copy of the application from
kept at your possession, copy of the receipt obtained at payment
of Examination fee, name, address, national identity card number
and the name of the examination. In case of the applicants outside
Colombo, letter of the request furnishing the above particulars and
a fax number to which a copy of the admission card is to be send to
the Department of Examination through fax. Officers who sit for
the examination should get their signature on the admission card
attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor of the
examination hall.
Note: Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
10.0  The Heads of Departments should approve duty leave for
officers to whom admission cards have been issued by the
Commissioner General of Examinations, enabling them to appear
for the examination. No traveling expenses will be paid.
11.0  This examination shall be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English
Media. Candidates should answer both question papers in the
language medium in which they sat for the entry examination to the
relevant service or in an official language. In case of candidates who
entered the service without a Competitive Examination, both papers
should be answered in the language medium of their education or in
an official language. It will not be allowed to change the language
medium of examination applied for, subsequently.
12.0  Officers may appear separately for each subject and at
different occasions at their discretion. However, they should score
at least 40% of the total marks allocated for each subject for a pass.
(For further details, refer to Annex 5 of Public Management
Assistants' Service minute.)
13.0 For the purpose of the official language policy, all officers
should prepare and fill the application forms in the official language.
14.0 The Department of Examination will issue the result sheet
including the results of all the candidates who have sat for the
examination to the Director General of Combined Services, Ministry
of Public Administration and Home Affairs. The list of name of the
candidates who have passed the examination will be published in
the Government Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka.
15.0 Examination Procedure.– Candidates should sit for a written
examination, which will consist of the following subjects.
Subject Marks Duration Subject
No.
1. Office systems and Procedure 100 02 hrs. 01
2. Accounting Systems adopted 100 02 hrs. 02
in the Government offices
Total 200
15.1 Office Systems and Procedure :
This paper is intended to test the candidate's knowledge
of office systems adopted in government offices and his /
her ability of practical application of the knowledge. This
paper consists of two parts.
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions, duration is
30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered, duration
is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
15.2 Accounting Systems adopted in Government Offices :
Candidate's knowledge in Accounting Systems adopted in
government office, books and records controlling Accounts
and orders and instructions of the Treasury issued in
relation to that and his/her ability of practical application
of the knowledge will be tested. This paper consists of
two parts.
Part I - A paper of multiple-choice questions, duration is
30 minutes, 25 marks.
Part II - A paper of semi-structured type questions, 03
out of 04 questions should be answered, duration
is 90 minutes, 75 marks.
16.0  The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final, in respect of any matter not provided for in this
notification. In the event of any inconsistency between the SinhaIa,
Tamil and English text of this Examination Notification, the Sinhala
text shall prevail.
K. V. P. M. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services,
Ministry of Public Administration
and Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and.Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
19th December, 2015.

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
7
SPECIMEN  FORM  OF  APPLICATION
EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS IN GRADE II OF PUBLIC
MANAGEMENT ASSISTANTS' SERVICE -2012 (I) 2014
(As per this exam notification, only the officers in Grade 11 of
Public Management Assistant's Service of the Combined Services
shall be eligible to forward applications)
Town Town No.
1.
2.
(Indicate the name and the number of the town in which you
wish to sit for the examination as per Para 3.0 of the gazette
notification)
(This cannot be chan ed subsequently)
The service to which you belong
(Please refer the note of para 5.0 of the  Gazette
Notification carefully before filling this section)
Medium of examination :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals) Eg: SILVA M.A.
1.2 Name with initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.3 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
1.4 Names denoted by initials :––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
2.0 Place of work and address :
2.1 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
––––––––––––.
(In block capitals)
2.2 Names and Address of the Office/Department/Institution
:––––––––––––.
(In English Capital Letters)
2.3 Names and Address of the Office/Department/Institution
:––––––––––––.
(In Sinhala / Tamil)
3.0 Sex : Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage.)
4.0 National Identity Card No. :
5.0 Subject/s you offer :
Subject Subject No.
6.0 Present Post :
6.1 Post :––––––––––––.
6.2 Number of the letter of appointment :––––––––––––.
6.3 Date of entry into Grade II of Public Management
Assistants' Service :––––––––––––.
7.0 7.1 Are you sitting the examination for the first time ? :––––.
7.2 If not, the fee paid :––––––––––––.
7.3 For affixing the receipt:
Affix the receipt securely here.
(It would be useful to keep a photocopy of the receipt)
8.0 Certificate of the Candidate :
I declare that the above particulars are true and that I am eligible
to appear for the examination in the language medium indicated
above. Since I sit for the examination for the ....................
time, it is not necessary to pay the examination fee/the receipt
obtained by paying Rs. ............. to ..................... Post office/
sub post office receipt No. ................... Dated ..................... has
been affixed hereto. Further I agree to be bound by to the decision
taken by the Commissioner-General of examinations in respect of
conducting this examination and also to all the provisions of the
Examination Act and.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :––––––––––––.
Note: The candidate should sign in the presence of the Head
of his/her Department/Institution or an officer authorized
to sign on behalf of such Head of Department.
Attestation of the Signature
I certify that Mr. / Mrs. / Miss ................................... who is an
officer in my office and who is known to me personally, placed his
/ her signature in my presence on ............................ Since he/ she
sit for the examination for the first time, it is not necessary for him/
her to paid the relevant examination fee and that the receipt has
been affixed.
–––––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
personal attesting.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
8
9.0 Certificate of the Head of the Department :
I certify that,
(i) The particulars furnished by the candidate have been
examined;
(ii) This officer belongs to combined services;
(iii) The officer has *appeared/not appeared for the
examination earlier;
(iv) *He/she has affixed the receipt obtained by paying the
relevant fee to this application form since *he/ she has
appeared for the examination and;
(v) The candidate is eligible to sit the examination.
––––––––––––––,
Signature and official stamp of the
Head of the Department.
Date :–––––––––––.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Address :–––––––––––.
* (Delete inapplicable words)
01–172
––––––––––––––––––––
EFFICIENCY  BAR   EXAMINATION   FOR  OFFICERS
IN  CLASS  I  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT
TRANSLATORS' SERVICE - 2013(2014)
AN Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in Class I of the
Translators' Service, as provided for in paragraph 08 of the
Translators' Service Minute published in the Government Gazette
Extraordinary No. 829/7 dated 26.07.1994, will be held in Colombo
by the Commissioner General of Examinations in the month of
April 2015. Candidates may appear for the examination either in
Sinhala, Tamil or English media. The language medium of examination
applied initially will not be allowed to change.
02. The specimen form of application for this examination is
published at the end of this notification. Applications should be
prepared correctly and legibly and the officers should send their
applications through the respective Heads of Departments by
registered post to reach “the Commissioner-General of Examinations,
Organizations & Foreign Examinations Branch, Department of
Examinations Sri Lanka, P.O. Box 1503, Colombo”, on or before
02nd of February 2015. The name of the examination should be
indicated on the top left-hand corner of the envelope in which the
application is sent to the Commissioner General of Examinations.
Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
03. (i) The application should be prepared on a paper "A4"
size, using both sides of the paper in such a manner that
items No. 1.0 to 2.10 appear on the first page and the
remaining numbers in the second page. Although
application form could be typewritten, it should be filled
by the candidate's own handwriting. Applications that
are not complete in every aspect and that do not comply
with the specimen will be rejected without any notice. It
would be advisable to keep a photocopy of the completed
application form at the candidate's possession.
(ii) For the purposes of Official Languages Policy, all the
applicants should prepare and fill their application forms
in the official language. The name of the examination
appearing in the heading of the application form should
be indicated in English in both Sinhala and Tamil medium
applications.
04. Syllabus and Scheme of Examination  :
1st Subject: - Paper 01
Translation of –
(i) A passage of general interest; and
(ii) Extracts from
(a) an official document or report; and
(b) a newspaper article or report
In one of the following ways selected, in accordance
with the candidate's medium of translation.
(i) From Sinhala into Tamil
(ii) From Sinhala into English
(iii) From Tamil into English.
Duration : - 03 hours
Marks : 100
2nd Subject: - Paper 02 -
Translation of –
(i) A passage of general interest; and
(ii) Extracts from
(a) an official document or report; and
(b) a newspaper article or report
In one of the following ways selected, in accordance
with the candidate's medium of translation.
(i) From Tamil into Sinhala
(ii) From English into Sinhala
(iii) From English into Tamil.
Duration: - 03 hours
Marks: - 100
• Candidates should obtain 40% or above of the total marks
for each paper to pass the examination.
05. Candidates' handwriting will be taken into consideration.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
9
06. Examination Fees.– Examination fees will be levied in respect
of candidates for this examination on the following basis :
(a) No fees will be levied in respect of candidates appearing
for the first time.
(b) Fees for appearing on a subsequent occasion will be
Rs. 400.00 for the full examination and Rs. 200 for a
single subject.
(c) The examination fee could be paid at any District /
Divisional secretariat in the Island to be credited to the
revenue head 2003-02-13 of the Commissioner General
of Examinations and the receipt obtained in favor of the
candidate himself /herself should be affixed to the relevant
cage of the application form. It is advisable to keep a
photocopy of the cash receipt with the candidate.
(d) The examination fees will not be refunded or transferred
in respect of any other examination under any
circumstances.
07. Admission to the Examination :
(b) (i) The Commissioner General of Examinations will issue
admission cards to all applicants whose applications
have been received. Candidates must get their signatures
in the admission cards attested in advance and produce
the admission cards to the supervisor of the examination
center, when presenting themselves for the examination.
Candidates without such admission cards will not be
permitted either to enter the examination hall or sit the
examination. A notification will be published in
newspapers by the Department of Examinations as soon
as the admission cards are issued to the candidates. If
the admission card is not received even after 2 or 3 days
of such an advertisement, steps shall be taken to notify
the Department of Examinations in the manner specified
in the advertisement. When informing, the name of the
examination applied for, full name, address and the NIC
number of the candidate shall be indicated. It would be
advisable for candidates outside Colombo to fax a letter
of request along with a fax number of the candidate to
the department of Examinations through the fax number
mentioning the notification for sending a copy of the
admission. Further, it would be advisable to keep a
copy of the application, copy of the receipt relevant to
payment of examination fee and the receipt of registration
of the application to prove any information requested
by the Department of Examinations.
(ii) Each candidate will be issued a time table along with the
admission card.
(iii) Candidates are bound by the rules and regulations
prescribed by the Commissioner General of Examinations
for the conduct of the examination. They will be liable
to any punishment imposed by the Commissioner
General of Examinations for the breach of these rules.
(iv) Rules prescribed for candidates are printed at the
beginning of this Gazette.
Note: The issue of an admission card to sit for the examination
should not be considered as an acceptance of requisite
qualifications of a candidate to compete at the
examination.
08. Heads of Departments should grant duty leave for candidates
to whom admission cards have been issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations, to present themselves at the examination.
Travelling expenses are not payable.
09. Identity of Candidates.– Candidates will be required to prove
their identity at the examination hall to the satisfaction of the
supervisor for each subject they offer. For this purpose, any of the
following documents will be accepted.
(a) The National Identity Card issued by the Department
of Registrations of Persons ;
(b) A valid passport.
The candidature of any candidate who is unable to submit
anyone of the above mentioned documents in addition to his
admission card is liable to be cancelled on the discretion of the
Commissioner General of Examinations.
10. Release of the results. – The Commissioner General of
Examinations will release the results of the examination to the
Director General of Combined Services.
11. The decision of the Director General of Combined Services
will be final in respect of any matter, which has not been provided
for in this notification.
12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil
and English text of this Examination Notification, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
K. V. P. M. J. G
AMAGE,
Director General of Combined Services.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
Independence Square,
Colombo 07,
19th December, 2014.

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
10
Specimen Application Form
(for office use only)
EFFICIENCY  BAR  EXAMINATION  FOR  OFFICERS  IN
CLASS  I  OF  THE  GOVERNMENT  TRANSLATORS'
SERVICE - 2013(2014)
(N. B.– This form should be filled correctly and legibly by the
candidates own handwritting.)
1.0 Medium of translations of candidate as per Para 04 of the
Gazette notification :
Paper 01 :
From Sinhala into Tamil - 1
From Sinhala into English - 2
From Tamil into English - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Paper 02 :
From Tamil into Sinhala - 4
From English into Sinhala - 5
From English into Tamil - 6
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
y Candidates may appear for either paper 01, paper 02 or
both the papers.
2.0  Personal Information :
2.1 Name with initials in English block capitals :––––––––.
Eg. : GUNAWARDHANA, M. G. B. S. K.
2.2 Names denoted by initials in English block capitals :
––––––––.
2.3 Full name (in Sinhala/Tamil)
2.4 Name of Ministry/Department/Office :––––––––.
2.5 Official Address (in English block capitals) :––––––––.
(The admission card will be sent to this address)
2.6 Sex :
Femal - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
2.7 Date of Birth :
Date : Month : Y ear :
2.8 National Identity Card No. :
2.9 Present Post :––––––––.
2.10 Number of the letter of appointment :––––––––.
3.0 3.1 Are you appearing for this examination for the first time ?
:––––––––.
3.2 If not, No. of the affixed cash receipt received by paying
the examination fee :––––––––.
Date :––––––––.
Issued District/Divisional Secretariat :––––––––.
The cash receipt obtained from any District / Divisional
secretariat, for payment of Rs. 200 for one subject and
Rs. 400 for whole examination, should be affixed here
(keep a photocopy of the cash receipt)
4.0 Certificate of Candidate :
I declare that the particulars furnished above are true, that I am
entitled to sit for the examination in the medium stated above, and
that I have not been subjected to any form of disciplinary
punishment. I agree to abide by the rules and regulations of this
examination imposed by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
––––––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :––––––––.
5.0 Certificate of the Head of Department :
I hereby certify that,
(i) this candidate is employed in this Department as a
Translator in Class I of the Translators' service;
(ii) the particulars furnished above are correct;
(iii) his/her work and conduct have been satisfactory
throughout: and he/ she has not been subjected to any
form of disciplinary punishment (excluding warning)
during the 5 years preceding; and
(iv) he/ she is eligible to sit for this examination.
(v) he/ she has paid the prescribed examination fee and the
receipt has been affixed (delete if inapplicable)
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Head of Department and
official stamp.
Date :––––––––.
Designation :––––––––.
Address :––––––––.
01–173
–––––––––––––––––––––
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION  AND
HOME  AFFAIRS
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the
Post of Technical Office (Grade III) of Sri Lanka
Technological Service to be appointed for the Service at
District Secretariats/Offices of the Government Agents
and Divisional Secretariats under Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs - 2014
APPLICATIONS are hereby called from the qualified Sri Lankan
citizens for the Open Competitive Examination held for recruitment
to above post.

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
11
02. On the results of a written test conducted by the Director
General of Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration,
candidates who have proved their qualifications on merit will be
selected for appointment to Grade III of Technical Office or
Apprentice Training for the Post of Training Grade in Sri Lanka
Technological Service to be attached to District Secretariats/Office
of the Government Agent and Divisional Secretariats under Ministry
of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
03. Age limit.– Candidates should be not less than 18 years and
not be more than 30 years of age on the closing date of applications.
However, the maximum age limit will not be applicable for the
candidates who are already in Public or Provincial Pubilc Service.
04. (a) Grade III
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should pass G . C. E. (O/L) in one sitting, in six subjects
with credit passes for language or literature, mathematics,
science and one other subject.
(ii) Should have passed G. C. E. (A/L) in one and the same
sitting with three subjects in Mathematics stream
including Pure Maths/Applied Maths/Combined Maths
and Physics.
Professional Qualifications. – Candidates should have obtained
one of the following professional qualifications along with
educational qualifications mentioned in 04(a) above.
(i) National Diploma in Technology awarded by University
of Moratuwa or Hardy Institution in Ampara ; or
(ii) National Diploma in Engineering awarded by National
Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority ; or
(iii) Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by
Ministry of Education and Higher Education ; or
(iv) Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University
of Sri Lanka ; or
(v) Successful completion of Part I of the Engineering
Examination conducted by Sri Lanka Engineering
Institute ; or
(vi) Successful completion of Level 06 of National V ocational
Qualification relevant to the field of employment ; or
(vii) Other Technical Qualifications recognized by the Tertiary
and V ocational Education Commission as equivalent to
the technical qualifications mentioned above in each and
every way on the opinion of the Ministry of Higher
Education and other institutions which issue the aforesaid
technical certificates.
(b) Training Grade
Educational Qualifications :
(i) Should have passed 06 subjects in G . C. E. (O/L)
Examination with credit passes for language or literature,
Mathematics, Science and one other subject at one sitting.
(ii) Should have passed G . C. E. (A/L) in one and the same
sitting with three subjects in Mathematics stream including
Pure Maths/Applied Maths/Combined Maths and Physics.
Professional Qualifications .– Candidates should have obtained
the National Certificate of Technology (Part time three year training
course) relevant to the field of his employment from a Technical
College recognized by the government with the aforementioned
basic qualifications.
Note :
* The candidates who become qualified at the Open
Competitive Examination for a Training Grade in
Technological Service will be placed on the initial salary
step of the salary scale of Grade III after they submit the
certificate issued by the relevant institution to the effect
that they have completed the one year the oretical and
practical training according to the syllabus relevant to the
service and have passed the relevant examination.
* The apprentices who are unable to pass the examination
held at the end of the training, have the opportunity to get
their training extended for a period of not more than 06
months. The service of the apprentices who fail the
examination held at the end of the extended period will be
suspended.
05. Salary Scale :
(a) Grade III
MN 3-2006A under Public Administration Circular 06/
2006 Rs. 15,005- 180x4 -240x6 - 320x11 - 360x20 -
Rs. 27,885.
Candidates should pass first efficiency bar examination
before the lapse of 3 years from the date of recruitment
to Grade III and proficiency in second official language
should be obtained before the lapse of 05 years from the
appointment as per Public Administration Circular No.
7/2007 dated 28.05.2007.
(b) Training Grade.– Monthly Allowance.– Rs. 12,920.
06. Service Conditions :
1. This post is permanent and pensionable.
2. Selected candidates will be attached to District
Secretariats/Office of the Government Agent and
Divisional Secretariats on the discretion of Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs.
3. Selected candidates are liable to serve in any part of the
island.

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
12
4. Selected candidates will be subjected to a probation period
of three years. Candidates who are already in public service
will be subjected to an acting period of one year.
5. Selected candidates are bound by provisions indicated in
Establishments Code and financial regulations and
provisions of Public Administration Circulars, orders
issued from time to time by the government and
instructions issued by the Department.
07. (i) Method of recruitment.– This examination will be held
strictly in Colombo by Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration on the supervision of
Technological Service Division of the Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs in February 2015.
(ii) Scheme of Examination :
(a) Examination will be held strictly in Sinhala and Tamil
medium. It is not allowed to change the medium of
language applied by the candidate consequently.
(b) Candidates should answer all question papers at
the examination in one and the same language.
(c) Candidates shall be bound by the rules and
regulations imposed by the Director General of Sri
Lanka Institute of Development Administration for
the purpose of conducting the examination and
issuing the results and they shall be liable to be
subjected to any punishment imposed by the
Director General of Sri Lanka Institute of
Development Administration for violation of these
rules and regulations.
(iii) Subjects of the examination.– Examination will consist
of two question papers.
1. Intelligence Test,
2. Subject related Technical Test.
Note.– If the number of candidates who are eligible to be
recruited to Grade III, which is the recruitment Grade, is
less than the number of vacancies, the candidates who
pass the qualifying examination under 4b above shall be
included into training Grade for the purpose of filling the
remaining vacancies.
08. Syllabus :
(i) Intelligence test :
Duration - 1 hour - 100 marks
This paper consists of questions deisgned to assess the
candidate's capacity for critical reasoning decision making
and analytical power.
(ii) Subject related Technical Test :
Duration - 3 hours - 100 marks
This paper consists of questions designed to assess the
candidate's knowledge on principles of building
construction, designing and understanding plans, water
supply, drainage systems, disposal of garbage.
The priority list for recruitment will be prepared on the
aggregage of marks by selecting candidates who secured
40% or more for each paper.
* Candidates are required to bring geometrical sets
and other necessary tools to the examination centre
for answering the paper.
09. Penalty for furnishing false information .– Care should be
taken to furnish correct information in filling the application form.
If a candidate is found to be ineligible, his candidature is liable to be
cancelled at any stage prior to during or after the examination, as
per the rules and regulations of this examination, If during any
stage, it is found that a candidate has furnished false he will be liable
for dismissal from the Public Service. The issue of an admission
card to a candidate does not necessarily mean that he/she has the
required qualifications to sit the examination.
10. Examination Fee. – The fee is Rs. 500 it should be paid at
any branch of Bank of Ceylon to be credited to Account
No. 02323278 of Independence Square Branch in favour of "Director
General, Sri Lanka Institute of Development Adminsitration". The
original of the receipt should be pasted securely to the relevant cage
in the application form. (It is advisable to keep a photocopy of the
receipt with the candidate for future reference) under no circumstance
will the fee be refunded.
11. Method of Application :
(a) Applications should be prepared using papers of A4
size (21x29 cm) (normal half sheets) in such a way that,
(i) Para 01-03 appear on the first page and
(ii) Para No. 04 onwards on the other pages.
(iii) Applications which are incomplete and not prepared
in accordance with the specimen form will be rejected
without any notice. Further it would be advisable to
keep a photocopy of the completed application
form. It is the responsibility of the candidate to
make sure that the application form perfected by
him/her complies with the specimen given in the
examination notice. It is essential to mention the
name of examination in English language as well, in
applications prepared in both Sinhala and Tamil
mediums.
(b) The completed application form for the examination
should be sent by registered post to reach below
mentioned address on or before 02.02.2015 :
Director General,
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration,
No. 28/10,
Malalasekara Mawatha,
Colombo 07.

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
13
The words "Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer
(Grade III) of Sri Lanka Technological Service, Ministry
of Public Administration and Home Affairs - 2014"
should be clearly indicated on the top left hand corner of
the envelope enclosing the application. Any application
received after the closing date will not be accepted.
(c) It is compulsory for the officers who are already in
public service to submit the appilcation certified by the
Head of the Department under the Section 12 of the
application.
(d) An SMS will be sent to all the applicants by Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Administration as soon as the
admission cards are issued to the candidates. If the
admission card is not received even after one week of
such message, information and instructions can be
obtained by calling the examination division of Sri Lanka
Institute of Development Adminsitration on
0115-980236.
(e) Candidates shall get their signature on the admission
card attested in advance and surrender to the supervisor
of the examination hall on the date of examination.
Candidates shall not be allowed to sit the examination
without such admission card.
(f) Issuance of an admission card to a candidate does not
necessarily mean that the candidate has fulfilled the
qualifications to sit the examination.
12. Candidates will be required to surrender any of the following
documents to the supervisor of the examination hall to prove their
identity :
(i) National Identity Card issued by the Department of
Registration of Persons,
(ii) A valid passport.
13. Any matter not provided for in these regulations will be
dealt with as determined by the Secretary to Ministry of Public
Administration and Home Affairs. Candidates shall be bound by
the general rules and regulatins pertaining to this examination
mentioned in the Gazette.
P . B. A
BEYKOON,
Secretary,
Ministry of Public Administration and
Home Affairs.
Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs,
19th December, 2014.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
OPEN COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION FOR RECRUITMENT TO THE POST OF TECHNICAL
OFFICE (GRADE III) OF SRI LANKA TECHNOLOGICAL SERVICE TO BE APPOINTED
FOR THE SERVICE AT DISTRICT SECRETARIATS/OFFICE OF THE GOVERNMENT AGENT
AND DIVISIONAL SECRETARIATS UNDER MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND
HOME AFFAIRS - 2014
(for office use only)
Language Medium :
Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Grade applied for :
Grade III - 1
Training Grade - 2
(Indicate the relevant number in the cage)
1.0 1.1 Name with initials :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals) Eg. : PERERA, A. B. C.
1.2 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
1.3 Name in full :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
1.4 N. I. C. Number :
1.5 Telephone No. :
Mobile :–––––––––––.
Land line :–––––––––––.
(It is compulsory to mention the mobile phone number)
2.0 2.1 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.2 Permanent address :–––––––––––.
(In Sinhala/Tamil)
2.3 Address to which the admission card should be sent :
–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
2.4 Postal District :–––––––––––.
(In English block capitals)
3.0 3.1 Gender :
Female - 1
Male - 0
(Indicate relevant number in the cage)
3.2 Date of birth :
Year : Month : Date :
3.3 Age as at 02.02.2015 :
Years : Months : Days :

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
14
4.0 Educational Qualifications :
4.1 Particulars of G. C. E. (O/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade Subject Grade
12
34
56
78
91 0
4.2 Particulars of G. C. E. (A/L) Examination :
(i) Year and Month of the Examination :––––––––––––.
(ii) Index Number :––––––––––––.
(iii) Results :
Subject Grade
1
2
3
4
5.0 Technical Qualifications :
Institution Course Duration Grade Certificate No.
followed and Date
6.0 Other Qualifications :––––––––––––.
7.0 If already in public service :
7.1 Address of Department/Institution :––––––––––––.
7.2 Present Post :––––––––––––.
7.3 Period of Service :––––––––––––.
7.4 Whether the post is permanent and pensionable or
temporary :––––––––––––.
8.0  Have you ever been convicted of any offence in a Court of
Law ? (Indicate 
3 in the relevant cage) (Indicate particulars,
if the answer is yes) :
Yes N o
9.0 Particulars of the receipt obtained for the examination fee :
(a) branch to which the payment was made :–––––––––––.
(b) Date :––––––––––––.
(c) Amount :––––––––––––.
Receipt is to be affixed here so as not to be detached.
10.0 Candidate's Certificate :
(a) I solemnly declar that particulars furnished by me in this
application are true and accurate to the best of my
knowledge. I agree so suffer any loss that may cause as a
result of any information not being completed and/or any
information erroneously being included here. I also state
that all sections herein have been correctly filled.
(b) I am aware that if any particulars contained herein are
found to be false I am liable to disqualification before
appointment and to dismissal from service if the inaccuracy
is detected after appointment.
(c) I hereby agree to abide by all the conditions imposed by
Sri Lanka Institute of Development Administration for
the purpose of holding this examination.
(d) I shall not change any information mentioned herein later.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of Applicant.
Date :––––––––––––.
11.0 Attestation of Applicant's Signature :
I hereby certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ........................, who
submits this application, is known to me personally and that he/
she placed his/her signature in my presence on ........................ and
further the officer has paid the prescribed examination fee and
pasted the receipt on the applications.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the officer attesting
the signature.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer, attesting the signature :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Address :––––––––––––.
(To be confirmed by official stamp)
12.0 Attestation of the Head of the Department, if the candidate is
a public officer :
I hereby submit the application of Mr./Mrs./Miss ......................
further, it is hereby informed that he/she is serving in a permanent/
temporary/casual post of this Ministry/Department and he/she
can/cannot be released from service, if selected for this post.
–––––––––––––––,
Head of the Department or authorized
officer.
Date :––––––––––––.
Name in full of the officer attesting :––––––––––––.
Designation :––––––––––––.
Ministry/Department :––––––––––––.
01–201

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
15
NEW SCALES OF CHARGES FOR NOTICES AND ADVERTISEMENTS IN THE
 "GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA"
EFFECTIVE AS FROM JANUARY  01st, 2013
All the Gazettes could be downloaded from the www.documents.gov.lk
(Issued every Friday )
1. All Notices and Advertisements are published at the risk of the Advertisers.
2. All Notices and Advertisements by Private Advertisers may be handed in or sent directly by post together with full payments t o the
Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8.
3. The office hours are from 8.30 a.m. to 4.15 p.m.
4. Cash transactions will be from 9.00 a.m. to 3.00 p.m.
5. All Notices  and  Advertisements must be pre-paid . Notices and Advertisements sent directly by post should be accompanied by
Money Order, Postal Order or Cheque made payable to the Government Printer. Postage stamps will not be accepted in payment of
Advertisements. Post Office - Borella will be the paying office for Money Orders.
6. To avoid errors and delay "copy"  should be on one side of the paper only and typewritten.
7. All signatures should be repeated in block letters below the written signature.
8. Notices re-change of name from Non-Government Servants and Trade Advertisements are not accepted for publication.
9. Advertisements purporting to be issued under Orders of Courts will not be inserted unless signed or attested by a Proctor of the Supreme
Court.
10. The authorised scale of charges for Notices and Advertisements is as follows from January 01st, 2013 :-
   Rs. cts.
One inch or less
... ... ... 137 0
Every addition inch or fraction thereof ... ... ... 137  0
One column or 1/2 page of Gazette ... ... ... 1,300  0
Two columns or one page of Gazette ... ... ... 2,600  0
(All fractions of an inch will be charged for at the full inch rate.)
11. The " Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka " is published every Friday. Day of publication is subject to
alteration in any week where Public Holidays intervene.
12. All Notices and Advertisements should reach the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 8 , as
shown in Schedule of Separate Notice published at the end of each part of the Gazette of the first week of every month.
13. All communications regarding non-receipt, change of address and of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka should
be addressed to the Government Printer, Department of Government Printing, Colombo 08.
14. REVISED SUBSCRIPTION RATES EFFECTIVE FROM JANUARY 1ST 2013 :
*Annual Subscription Rates and Postage
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ...                ...             ... 4,160 0 9,340 0
Section II (Advertising, Vacancies, Tenders, Examinations, etc.) 580 0 950 0
Section III (Patent & Trade Mark Notices etc.) ... .. 405 0 750 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 890 0 2,500 0
Part II (Judicial)       ... ... ... ... ... 860 0 450 0
Part III (Lands)           ... ... ... ... ... 260 0 275 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 2,080 0 4,360 0
Part V (Stage carriage permits and Book List) ... ... 1,300 0 3,640 0
Part VI (List of Jurors and Assessors)           ... ... ... 780 0 1,250 0
Extraordinary Gazette ... ... ... ... 5,145 0 5,520 0
Subscription to the “Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka” are booked per periods of not less
than 12 months so as to terminate at the end of a calendar year only.
* Rates for Single Copies (if available in stock)
Price Postage
Rs.  cts.  Rs. cts.
Part I :
Section I             ... ... ... ... 40 0 60 0
Section II            ... ... ... ... 25 0 60 0
Section III          ...    ... ... ... 15 0 60 0
Part I (Whole of 3 Sections together) ... ... ... 80 0 120 0
Part II                ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part III               ... ... ... ... 12 0 60 0
Part IV (Notices of Provincial Councils and Local Government) 23 0 60 0
Part V                ... ... ... ... 123 0 60 0
Part VI               ... ... ... ... 87 0 60 0
*All single copies could be obtained from Government Publications Bureau, No. 163, Kirulapone Mawatha,
Polhengoda, Colombo 05.

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'01'02
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 02.01.2015
16
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka  is normally published on
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately preceding
the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also varies depending
on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be received
for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will not be
published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if publication
is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous of ensuring
the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed for postal
transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer does not accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
will be received by the Government Printer.
T
HE SCHEDULE
Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
Acceptance of Notices for
Publication in the Gazette
2015
JANUARY 02.01.2015 Friday — 19.12.2014 Friday 12 noon
09.01.2015 Friday –– 26.12.2014 Friday 12 noon
16.01.2015 Friday –– 02.01.2015 Friday 12 noon
23.01.2015 Friday –– 09.01.2015 Friday 12 noon
30.01.2015 Friday –– 16.01.2015 Friday 12 noon
FEBRUARY 06.02.2015 Friday — 23.01.2015 Friday 12 noon
13.02.2015 Friday –– 30.01.2015 Friday 12 noon
20.02.2015 Friday –– 06.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
27.02.2015 Friday –– 13.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
MARCH 06.03.2015 Friday — 20.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
13.03.2015 Friday –– 27.02.2015 Friday 12 noon
20.03.2015 Friday –– 06.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
27.03.2015 Friday –– 13.03.2015 Friday 12 noon
P. H. L. V. DE SILVA,
Acting Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
01st January, 2015.
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.