

<!-- page 1 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'04'05
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2025
 1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
w;s úfYI
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
EXTRAORDINARY
(Published by Authority)
PART I: SECTION (I) – GENERAL
Government Notiﬁ cations
wxl 2430$41 – 2025 wfma%,a 05 jeks fikiqrdod – 2025'04'05
No. 2430/41 – SATURDAY, APRIL 05, 2025
PILGRIMAGES ORDINANCE
REGULATIONS made by the Minister of Public Administration, Provincial Councils, and Local Government in terms of 
section 2 of Pilgrimages Ordinance.(Chap.175)
                                                      Prof. A. H. M. H. A BAYARATHNA (M.P),
                                                       Minister of Public Administration,
                                                                     Provincial Councils and Local Government.                                             
                                                                           
Ministry of Public Administration,
Provincial Councils, and 
Local Government, 
Home Affairs Division,
Nila Medura ,
Elvitigala Mawatha, 
Narahenpita ,
Colombo 05.
06th March 2024.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A – G 044143 – 09 (04/2025)

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'04'05
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2025
 2A
Regulations
1. Th  ese regulation may be cited as the regulation of Udamuduna Sri Poorwarama Vihara, Esela Perehara of No. 546, 
Paleepana Gramaniladhari Division, Poojapitiya Divisional Secretariat in Kandy District.
2. In these regulations 
 “Camp area” means the area described in the Schedule.
 “District Secretary/ Government Agent” means the Government Agent of  Kandy Administrative District and  it also 
includes any offi  cer authorized by him in terms of regulation 4.
 “Medical Of ﬁ cer” means the Health Medical Ofﬁ cer in charge of the camp area.
 “Pilgrim” means any person who enters and stays within the camp area for any purpose.
 “Police Of ﬁ cer” includes any Grama Niladhari in charge of the camp area.
 “Public Health Inspector” means the public health inspector in charge of the camp area.
3. These regulations shall apply to the pilgrimages made on account of Udamuduna Sri Poorwarama Vihara, Esela 
Perehara of No. 546, Paleepana Gramaniladhari Division, Poojapitiya Divisional Secretariat in Kandy District.
4. The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to authorize any Public Of ﬁ cer in writing to exercise 
any power vested in him and carry out any function assigned to him under this regulation.
5. I. The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to regulate vehicular traf ﬁ c or walking to or from 
or within the camp area.
 II. No person shall act contrary to any lawful order given by any Police Of ﬁ cer in compliance with the instructions 
issued to such Police Ofﬁ cer by the District Secretary/ Government Agent for the exercise of powers vested in him 
under the Para (1) of this regulation.
6. No person shall bring any cattle or any other animal into the camp area without the written permission of the District 
Secretary/ Government Agent.  However, this regulation shall not apply in instance where carts are brought and cattle 
are driven to a place reserved for the purpose of leaving carts and cattle, under regulation 7
7. (1) The District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to reserve or provide the following places inside 
the camp area.
a.     Parking places for buses and other motor vehicles.
b. Places for leaving carts and cattle
c. Separate places for the accommodation of each group of pilgrims 
d. Places to rest for the pilgrims who fall sick
e. Places for begging and solicitation for charity
f. Places for displaying certain items for sale
g. Places suitable for putting up huts for various purposes
h. Places for the use of pilgrims for washing and bathing.
i. Tanks, wells, water holes for the use of pilgrims for obtaining drinking water and other places providing such 
facilities.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'04'05
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2025
 3A
j. Places for other purposes the District Secretary/ Government Agent may deem necessary. 
(2) If the District Secretary/ Government Agent deems necessary and in case of any place is reserved or 
provided for certain purpose under Para (I) by him, action shall be taken to erecting a notice or name board 
stating the purpose for which the place is reserved.
(3) (I) In case of any place is reserved or provided for certain purpose under Para (I), that place shall strictly 
be used for such purpose and no one shall use any other place within the camp area for such purpose.
8. If the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Offi   cer is of the view that it is required to add chlorine to any 
tank, wells, water holes or reservoir situated in the camp area or it is required to be closed for prevention of diseases, 
the District Secretary/ Government Agent or Medical Offi  cer shall have the power to do so. 
9. (1) No one shall build any hut or temporary or permanent construction or any other construction or make a new 
addition to existing building or any other construction for any purpose in any place within the camp area, 
reserved or provided for certain purpose under regulation 7, except on a permit issued by the District Secretary/ 
Government Agent for the relevant purpose and in accordance with the conditions stipulated in such permit.
 (2)  If any person builds any hut or temporary or permanent building or any other construction or make a new 
addition to existing building or construction contrary to the Para (I) of this regulation, subsequent to delivery of 
a written notice to that person, it is lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to order to remove or 
demolish such hut or building or construction within the period of time given in the notice as the case may be.
 (3)  Where any  person who has been delivered a notice under Para (2) of this regulation, neglects to act in compliance 
with the requirements stipulated in that notice within the period stated there in or where a doubt arises as to who 
is the actual person to whom such notice is to be delivered, it is lawful for the District Secretary/ Government 
Agent to cause action to be taken to remove or demolish such hut building, construction or a new addition 
made to the existing building or construction as the case may be. It is also lawful for the District Secretary/ 
Government Agent to make arrangements to enter to any land or premises together with labourers, equipment.
10. No one shall excrete within the camp area except in a lavatory with a notice or sign stating that it is reserved for the us e 
of pilgrims. 
11. No one shall contaminate any tank, wells, water holes, reservoir, canal stream or brook located in the camp area.
12. No one shall dispose liquid or material garbage in the camp area except in a place or in a container supplied by the 
District Secretary/ Government Agent for this purpose.
13. (1) District Secretary/ Government Agent shall have the power to stream line the distribution of cooked meals and 
beverages to the pilgrims in the camp area.
 (2) No one shall disobey any lawful order to be carried out by Police Offi   cer or a Public Health Inspector in 
accordance with instructions given by District Secretary/ Government Agent in the exercise of powers delegated 
to him under Para (I) of this regulation.
14. (1) Where any food or drink displayed or placed for sale or distribution among the pilgrims within the camp area is 
found to be contaminated or harmful for human consumption, the District Secretary/ Government Agent or the 
Medical Ofﬁ cer or the Public Health Inspector may announce that such food or drink is not suitable for human 
consumption.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'04'05
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2025
 4A
 (2) No one shall sell or distribute within the camp area any food or drink announced as not suitable for human 
consumption under Para (I) of this regulation.
 (3) It shall be lawful for any Police Of ﬁ cer or Public Health Inspector to prohibit selling or distribution and destroy 
any food or drink announced harmful for human consumption under Para (I) of the regulation.
15. No person shall maintain a bakery, sweet stall or a place where sweet are made, eating house or Dansal in any place in 
the camp area including reserved or provided for any purpose under the regulation 7 unless they are maintained on 
a license issued by the District Secretary/ Government Agent and in accordance with conditions stipulated there in. 
Every license shall be issued free of charge on recommendation of the Medical offi  cer or any offi  cer authorized by such 
medical offi  cer.
16. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses and Dansal     and all furniture and equipment 
in such place in the camp area shall be kept in hygienic condition.
17. All cakes, sweet and cooked meals displayed or placed for sa le or distribution in the camp area shall be kept in show 
case properly made preventing the fl ies from entering to the satisfaction of the Medical offi   cer or the Public Heath 
Inspector.
18. No tea, coff  ee and milk dregs or leavings of any food or drink or waste disposed in cooking or other wastes shall be left  
at any place within the camp area. All such dregs or wastes shall be dumped into the container placed as provided in 
regulation 19. However wastes, milk dregs or any refuse have been found thrown over any place within the camp area 
or on the ground close by, the owner or chief occupant of such place or in case of bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets 
are made or eating house or ‘Dansal’ the license holder of such place shall be deemed to have violated provisions in this 
regulations unless such owner, chief occupant or license holder proves  that all necessary precautions have been taken 
and action has been taken with proper care to prevent the commission of such off ence.
19. All bakeries, sweet stalls, places where sweets are made, eating houses, Dansal and buildings or constructions used for 
commercial or business purpose shall be provided with a wooden, metal or plastic garbage container with a capacity of 
1 1/2 cubic meters (4 ½ cubic feet) and it shall always be closed with a wooden, metal or plastic lid unless it is used to 
dump or remove garbage.
20. (1)  If the District Secretary/ Government Agent is of the view that any bakery, sweet stall, place where sweets are 
made , eating house, Danasal or business place has been es tablished or maintained in violation of regulations 
16,17,18 or 19 in this section he shall order the authority to close down such bakery , sweet stall , place where 
sweets are made, eating house, Dansal or business place situated within the camp area or cancel any license with 
immediate eff ect if any license has been issued for such place.
      (2)  Any person who is in charge of any bakery or sweet stall or place where sweets are made or eating house or Dansal 
or business place shall act in accordance with the lawful directive made by the District Secretary/ Government 
Agent under chapter (1) of this section.
21.     No person suff ering from any infectious disease or contagious diseases shall enter    the camp area.
22.    (1) It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to order the   pilgrims to leave the camp area and 
for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to determine the route of leaving and mode of transport to be used 
for leaving when on epidemic is spreading in such area.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'04'05
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2025
 5A
    (2) No person shall act against any legal order given by the District Secretary/Government Agent under Para (I) of 
this section.
23.     Every person suff ering from any infectious disease or contagious disease within the camp area, and when a person is 
knowingly living together with a person suff ering from any infectious disease or contagious disease, every such person 
shall report it to the Medical Offi  cer or the Public Health Inspector or any Police Offi  cer immediately.
24.    Any person who is in charge of any bakery, place where sweets are made, restaurant or Dansal within the camp area 
shall not allow any person whom he knows is suff  ering from infectious diseases or contagious disease to enter such 
bakery, place where sweets are made, eating house or Dansal or participate in the distribution, sale or manufacture of 
any material or food or drink.
25.    A license holder of any bakery, sweet stall, a place where sweets are made, eating  house or Dansal or an owner or chief 
occupant of any lodge or pilgrims’ rest shall not allow any person suff  ering from ay infectious disease or contagious 
disease to stay at anytime in such bakery, sweet stall, or place where sweets are made, eating house, Dansal lodge or 
pilgrims’ rest as the case may be. When it is revealed that a person suff ering from any infectious disease or contagious 
disease is staying in such place the license holder or owner or chief occupant shall report it to the Medical Offi  cer or 
the Public Health Offi  cer or any Police Offi  cer immediately.
26. No person shall donate or distribute anything for charity either by cash or by any   other means within the camp area 
except in a place reserved or provided for begging and solicitation for charity under regulation 7.
27. No person shall light fi  re works or use any fi  re arms within the camp area without a written permission from the 
District Secretary/ Government Agent.
28. No person shall unduly alter or remove any notice or name board displayed in any       place under regulation 7 or 10.
29.    It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent, Medical Offi  cer,   Public Health Inspector or any Police 
Offi  cer 
(a)    Enter any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of carrying out any regulation from among these 
regulations and,
(b) To construct or erect a post in any land or place within the camp area for the purpose of displaying a notice or 
a name board under regulation 7.
30. It shall be lawful for the District Secretary/ Government Agent to cancel the following at any time if he considers that 
the cancellation is appropriate or it is for the benefi t in the public interest.
(a) Any permission given under regulation 6 or regulation 27.
(b) Permit issued under regulation 9.
(c) Any license issued under regulation 15.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi: (I) fPoh – Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2025'04'05
PART I: SEC. (I) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 05.04.2025
 6A
Schedule                                                                             
The Udamuduna Sri Poorwarama Vihara is situated in the plot of land in  Paleepana Gramaniladhari Division No 546, 
Poojapitiya Divisional Secretariat in Kandy District. The Boundaries of the land are Follows:
North  :  Poojapitiya Udaha Junction
South   :  Mrs. Chandrika Seneviratne’s House, No. 97
East   :  Mrs. Wasantha Herath’s Land No. 85 A
West   :  Mr. M. Dingiri Banda’s House, No. 76 A 
EOG 04 - 0043
  
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.