

<!-- page 1 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'13
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.02.2014
35
35
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
N.B.—Part I, IIA and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,342 of 21.05.2004 were not published.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and
times of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. sho uld be
prepared by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, the reby
enabling those interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and  complaints
made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication
i.e. Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette  of 07th March, 2014 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on
21st February, 2014.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order , by-law, notification or other matter
shall be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order , by-law,
notification or other matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette.”
P. H. L. V . DE SIL V A,
Acting  Government Printer.
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,
January 01, 2014.
This Gazette can  be downloaded from  www. documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
PAGE
Land Settlement Notices :- ...
Preliminary Notices ... —
Final Orders ... —
Land Reform Commission Notices ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
PAGE
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
Western Province ... —
Central Province ... —
Southern Province ... —
Northern Province ... —
Eastern Province ... —
North-Western Province ... —
North-Central Province ... —
Uva Province ... —
Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... ––
Land Redemption Notices ... —
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... —
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ... 36
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LANDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
wxl 1"850- 2014 fmnrjdß 13 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2014'02'13
No. 1,850 – THURSDAY , FEBRUARY 13,  2014
N.B.– (i) Part IV A  of the Gazette  No. 1,849 of 07.02.2014 was not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'13
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.02.2014
36
Miscellaneous Lands Notices
Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/36974.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: plc 3031716 '
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Commercial Purpose, Road
Development Authority  has requested on  lease a  State land
containing in extent about  0.1236 Ha.  marked as Lot No. 01, 02 as
depicted in the  tracing No.  P. P. K.  3325 and situated in the  village
of Walagama  which  belongs to the  Grama Niladhari Division  of
No. 75 a Walagama stage coming  within  the  area of authority of
Galigamuwa Divisional Secretariat in the  District of Kegalle.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
Lot No. 01
On the North by : Main Road ;
On the East by : Road ;
On the  South by : P. P. K. 3325/2 ;
On the West by : Road ;
Lot No.  02
On the North by : 2325/01 ;
On the East by : Road ;
On the  South by : P. P. 2061/N7 Village ;
On the West by : Road ;
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions   : -
(a) Term  of the Lease.– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( Since 23.07.2013);
(b) The Annual Amount of the Lease. – 4% of the   commercial
value  of the land as per valuation of the Chief   Valuer for
year 2013. This amount of the lease must be  quinquennially
revised in such a manner that the amount as a result of the
revision will be  not less than  50% of the  amount that just
preceded.
Penalty. - Treble 4%  of the  developed  value of the  land;
(c) This  lessees must, within one year of the commencement
of the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(d) The lessees must not use this land for any purpose  other
than for the Purpose of   Commercial/Industrial  purpose;
(e) The  lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary   and  by other  institutions;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No  sub - leasing  can be done until the expiry of a minimum
period of 05 years  since 23.07.2013  ;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
(i) The building constructed must be maintained in  a proper
state of repair ;
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
L. P. C
HAMIKA SUBODHINI,
Assistant  Land Commissioner,
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6,Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
02-275 Land Commissioner General’s No. : 4/10/22942.
Provincial Land  Commissioner's  No.: Provincial/LC/L7 Mun/1/2.
       
NOTIFICATION   MADE   UNDER  STATE  LAND
REGULATION  No. 21 (2)
IT  is hereby notified that for the Jummah Muslim Palliya Trust
Council Muhamadu Sadhaku Badhurusaman, Seinul Abtheen
Nuhalebai and Meera Shaibu Marikar Sambudeen have requested
on lease a state land  containing in extent about  1.568 Ha. out of
extent marked Lot  No. 01 as   depicted  in the Plan   P. P. Pu. 4363
and situated  in the  Village of  Tharakudivillu  belongs  to the Grama
Niladhari Division of  No. 593 B, Agunavila coming within  the area
of authority  of  Munthalama Divisional Secretariat in the District
of  Puttalam ;

<!-- page 3 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2014'02'13
PART III – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 13.02.2014
37
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
02. Given below are the boundaries of the land requested :
On the North by : Road Reservation  ;
On the East by : School Earth  ;
On the  South by : Empty Land  ;
On the West by : Lot No. 19 Part.
03. The land requested can be given on lease for the necessary
purpose. Therefore, the Government has intended to lease out the
land subject to other Government approved conditions and the
following conditions : -
(a) Term   of the Lease .– Thirty  (30) Years,  ( The Minister
Respectable to 28.11.2013  on wards);
The Annual  Rent of the Lease.– 1/2% of the   respectable to
minister value of the land as per valuation of the  Chief
Valuer in the year 2013.
Premium  .-  No
(b) The  lessees must, within one year of the commencement of
the lease, develop  the  said land, in such a manner as to
captivate the mind of the Divisional Secretary ;
(c) The lessees  must  not use  this land  for  any  purpose other
than for the  purpose;
(d) This lease  must  also be subject to the other special
conditions stipulated and imposed by the Divisional
Secretary and  by other  institutions ;
(e) The  buildings constructed must  be maintained  in a proper
state of repair ;
(f) Once the land is given on lease and in the event of failure on
the part of  the lessees to substantiate within the specified
time frame the purpose for which the land was obtained,
action will be taken to terminate the lease ;
(g) No sub-leasing can be done  until the expiry of a minimum
period of  05 years;
(h) Payment of the lease must be regularly made and if defaulted
in payment, the agreement will ipso facto lapse.
If acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within
six weeks of the date herein below to the effect that this land must
not be given on lease, the land will be leased out as requested.
P
RASADEE UBAYASIRI,
Assistant  Land Commissioner ,
for Land Commissioner General .
Land Commissioner General’s Department,
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat,
"Mihikatha Medura", Rajamalwatta Road,
Battaramulla,
24th January, 2014.
02-276