

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2443$14 - 2025 cqks ui 30 jeks i÷od - 2025'06'30
No. 2443/14 -  MONDAY,   JUNE  30,  2025
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1A- PG 7180 - 334 (06/2025) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
L.D.B 15/2024
PUBLIC  DEBT  MANAGEMENT ACT, No. 33 of 2024
REGULATIONS made by the President under section 35 of the Public Debt Management Act, No 33 of 2024 read with 
sections 19, 20, 21, 22 and 23 of that Act and the proviso to paragraph (3) of Article 44 of the Constitution of the Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on the recommendation of the Public Debt Coordination Committee.
 Anura Kumara Dissanayake,
 President.
Colombo,
30th June, 2025.
Regulations
 1.  These regulations may be cited as the Public Debt Management Regulations No.1of 2025.
 2.  An entity intending to make an application for a loan guarantee agreement shall submit the following documentation 
to the Public Debt Management Office (hereinafter referred to as the “Office”) :-

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2025
2A
 (a)  audit reports and audited annual financial statements of the past three years, where the audit for the 
immediate past year has not been completed, unaudited financial statement for the immediate past financial 
year;
 (b)  most recent interim financial statements;
 (c)  business plans and key financial and non-financial targets for the next three years, approved by the 
competent authority as applicable;
 (d)  debt service projections for the entire term of the borrowing underlying the request;
 (e)  cash-flow projections of the entity and the project for the entire term of the borrowing underlying the 
request;
 (f)  detailed breakdown of outstanding debt stock (guaranteed, non-guaranteed and on- lent, by currency, by 
creditor);
 (g) terms and conditions (including maturity and interest rate) of each outstanding debt;
 (h)  feasibility study report of the investment project approved by the competent authority as applicable;
 (i)  commitment by the applicant to open a project account and to use the project account for making debt 
payments should the request be approved; if applicable ;
 (j)  board resolution for the application if applicable;
 (k)  the relevant Cabinet Memorandum and its approval; and
 (l)  any other information that might be deemed necessary by the Office to conduct credit and currency risk.
 3.  The applicable ceiling is the guarantee limit specified in section 17 of the Public Financial Management Act, No. 
44 of 2024.
 4.  The Office shall assess the credit risk of the loan guarantees by using a credit risk assessment method based on 
international best practice approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
 5.  Guarantee Fees shall be set as a percentage of the total contractual amount or outstanding amount of debt guaranteed 
under the agreement. Such percentage shall be determined based on the credit risk assessed by the Office which will 
cover the expected losses to the Government from the guarantees and which shall be credited to the Consolidated 
Fund.
 6.  Any Licensed Commercial Bank or a Licensed Financial company registered under the relevant Laws of Sri Lanka 
shall be eligible to serve as the financial institution for the purpose of hosting the beneficiary’s project account.
 7.  The Office shall prepare and share with the Minister, the draft loan guarantee agreement which include the 
following: -
 (a)  the guaranteed amount;
 (b)  the fees for loan guarantees;
 (c)  the beneficiary’s agreement to indemnify for any amounts paid under a loan guarantee if called, and to 
fully disclose any information required;
 (d)  the beneficiary’s agreement to make debt service payments in accordance with the debt payment plan in 
the agreement, meet terms and conditions of the loans, repay any amount paid by the Government under 
a guarantee, if called, and pay penal interest if applicable;
 (e)  the name of the bank that will host the project account and its expected functions (including ensuring 
the conformity of fund withdrawing documents, monitoring of the account balance and reporting to the 
Ministry). Where the beneficiary is a Provincial Council or a L ocal A uthority, it shall not be required to 
open a project account; and
 (f)  the beneficiary’s agreement to comply with reporting requirements in accordance with section 23 of the 
Act.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2025
3A
 8.  An entity intending to make an application for on-lending shall submit the following:-
 (a)  audit reports and audited annual financial statements of the past three years, where the audit for the 
immediate past year has not been completed, unaudited financial statement for the immediate past financial 
year;
 (b)  most recent interim financial statements;
 (c)  debt service projections for the entire term of the borrowing underlying the request;
 (d)  business plans and key financial and non-financial targets for the next three years, approved by the 
competent authority as applicable;
 (e)  cash-flow projections of the entity and the project for the entire term of the borrowing underlying the 
request;
 (f)  detailed breakdown of outstanding debt stock (guaranteed, non-guaranteed and on- lent, by currency, by 
creditor);
 (g)  terms and conditions (including maturity and interest rate) of each outstanding debt;
 (h)  feasibility study report of the investment project approved by the competent authority as applicable;
 (i)  commitment by the applicant to open a project account and to use the project account for making debt 
payments should the request be approved, if applicable;
 (j)  board resolution for the application, if applicable;
 (k)  the relevant Cabinet Memorandum and its approval; and
 (l)  any other information that may be deemed necessary by the Office to conduct credit and currency risk 
assessment.
 9.  On-lending shall be provided in line with the requirements specified in section 13 of the Public Financial 
Management Act, No. 44 of 2024 that public debt is reduced to, and maintained at a sustainable level.
 10.  The Office shall assess the credit risk of the on-lending by using a credit risk assessment method based on 
internationally recognized best practices approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.
 11.  The Office shall require beneficiaries of on-lending to pay an additional premium over the interest rate of the 
original loan to cover funding cost, currency risk and credit risk associated with the beneficiaries. The premium 
shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund.
 12.  Any Licensed Commercial Bank or a Licensed Financial Company registered under the relevant Laws of Sri Lanka 
shall be eligible to serve as the financial institution for the purpose of hosting the beneficiary’s project account.
 13.  The Office shall prepare the draft on-lending agreement which shall include the following:-
 (a)  the on-lent amount;
 (b)  premium for on-lending;
 (c)  the terms and conditions of the subsidiary loan agreement, including the rate of interest;
 (d)  the name of the bank that will host the project account and its expected functions (including ensuring 
the conformity of fund withdrawing documents, monitoring of the account balance and reporting to the 
Ministry). Where the beneficiary is a Provincial Council or a L ocal A uthority, it shall not be required to 
open a project account; and
 (e)  the beneficiary’s agreement to comply with reporting requirements in accordance with Section 23 of the 
Act.
 14.  A Supplier’s Credit Agreement shall come under the purview of the Office where the total estimated cost of the 
project is greater than ten million rupees.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2025'06'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.06.2025
4A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.
 15.  Every such project shall be included in the Public Investment Programme as defined in the Public Financial 
Management Act, No. 44 of 2024.
 16.  A Finance Lease A greement, shall come under the purview of the Office where the tenure of the Finance L ease 
A greement is greater than one year.
 17.  In these regulations -
“ Act” means the Public Debt Management Act, No. 33 of 2024;
“applicable ceiling” means the guarantee limit as stipulated and defined in the Public Financial Management 
Act, No. 44 of 2024; and
“competent authority “ means an official body, organization, or agency that possesses the legal authority, 
expertise, or designated responsibility to make decisions, enforce regulations, or oversee the operations of an 
entity.
EOG 07 - 0001