

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADvERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 2204
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … 2196 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"407 – 2024 Tlaf;dan¾ ui 18 jeks isl=rdod – 2024'10'18
No. 2,407 –  FRiday, OctObER 18, 2024
ImPORTANT   NOTICE   REGARDING   ACCEPTANCE   Of  NOTICES  
fOR  PubLICATION   IN  ThE  WEEkLy  "GAzETTE "
attENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
all Government departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, tender Notices and dates and times of auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
all notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 08th November, 2024, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 25th October, 2024.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 Gangani  Liyanage,
 Government Printer.
department of Govt. Printing, 
colombo 08,
01st January, 2024.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
2193 - b 082619 - 5,403 (10/2024)
N. B.–   Parts ii and iV(a) of the Gazette No. 2406 of  11.10.2024 were not published. 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2194
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. a ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  a candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a tamil educated in tamil Medium (this requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments code, departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  in addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  all appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
chapter iV of the constitution of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 if he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the island. 
4. terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  the Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
y ear. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the army, Navy and air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public corporate Sector and companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public administration circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (i) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public administration 
circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2195
Rules  and   instructions   for  candidates
,all candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations act, No. 25 of 1968.,
all candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. a candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
the commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. all candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. they should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. candidates should obey the Supervisor. therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. the occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. a 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. it should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. if a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. the removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. all such material remains the property 
of the commissioner of Examinations. breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. a candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. a candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. a candidate should refrain from helping another 
candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. a candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. if you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  in case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. if a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. in case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. after the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  the left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. the right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  y ou should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) at the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) y ou should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  if it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
commissioner General of Examinations, 
department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2196
Post - v acant
 PubLIC   SER vICE   COmmISSION
Recruitment on Open Basis for The Post of Legal Officer Grade iii of the Executive Service Category 
in Survey  Department under the Ministry of Agriculture, Lands, Livestock, Irrigation, Fisheries and 
Aquatic Resources
by  order of the Public Service Commission, applications are invited from the citizens of Sri Lanka who have fulfilled the 
qualifications set out in this notice to fill the vacancy existing in the post of Legal Officer Grade III of the Executive Service 
category in Survey department. 
1. method of Recruitment:
The candidate who obtains highest marks from among those who are meeting with qualifications set out in the notice 
will be recruited to the vacancy upon the results of an interview for evaluating the eligibility conducted by a board of 
interview appointed by the Public Service commission. 
the interview for evaluating the eligibility will be held in conformity with the marking scheme (prescribed under  
No. 06) approved by the Public Service commission.
The effective date of the appointment will be determined by the Public Service Commission.
2. Required qualifications:
 i. Educational/ Professional Qualifications:
  Should have sworn in as an attorney at Law in the Supreme court of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Experience:
  Should have obtained an active professional experience not less than three (03) years subsequent to swearing in 
as an Attorney at Law in the Supreme Court. (The period of experience, official seal of the attester and the date 
attested should be clearly mentioned in documents provided to prove active professional experience) 
or
  Should have obtained experience in a *legal post in not less than 03 years in a public institution subsequent to 
swearing in as an attorney at Law in the Supreme court.  
  (these matters should be proved through a letter issued by the Secretary/Head of the department/Head of the 
institution)   
 
  Note: Documents proving the basic qualifications, certified by the Candidate himself should be attached to 
the application form. The applications which do not contain the certificates clearly stating the date of 
commencement of the service period and the last date of service shall be rejected without notice.
*Legal post means a post where a degree in law or having been sworn in as an attorney at Law of the Supreme 
Court is considered as a basic qualification for recruitment.  
 iii. Physical Fitness:
  Every candidate should be physically and mentally fit to serve and perform duties of the post in any part of Sri 
Lanka.
 iv. Other Qualifications:
•	 Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka
•	 Should be of excellent moral character
•	 Qualifications required for recruitment to the post should have been completed in every  respect 
as at the date on which the applications are closed.

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2197
3. Terms of engagement and conditions of service:
 i. This post is permanent and pensionable. You are subject to the policy decision made by the Government in the 
future on the Pension Scheme entitled to you. you are required to contribute to the Widows’/ Widowers’ and 
Orphans Pension Scheme. you shall pay the contribution for the same as prescribed by the Government from time 
to time. 
 ii. This appointment will be subject to a probationary period of three (03) years. Officers should pass the first efficiency 
bar examination within 03 years from the date of recruitment as prescribed in the Scheme of Recruitment.
 iii. You are required to acquire the proficiency in the prescribed other official language/official languages in terms of 
the provisions of Public administration circular 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020.
 iv. This appointment will be subject to the Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, Establishments Code 
of the democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and Financial Regulations of the Government, provisions of 
the scheme of recruitment for the executive officer category (Legal Officer) of the Survey Department and to the 
other departmental orders.
 v. the medium applied for shall not be allowed to change later and the medium of language for which you are 
eligible for the appointment shall be the medium of language mentioned by you in the application.
4. Age Limit:
Should not be less than 21 years and not more than 45 years of age as at the closing date of applications.
5. Salary Scale :
this post carries the monthly salary scale  of Rs.47,615-10x1,335-8x1,630-17x2,170- Rs.110,895 (SL-1-2016) in terms 
of the  schedule i of the Public administration circular No.03/2016 dated 25.02.2016. 
6. Interview for evaluating the eligibility will be on the basis of the marking scheme below:
Serial
No.
Subject Maximum
marks
01 Additional Educational Qualifications:
(a.) the Postgraduate degree in Law obtained from a university recognized by the 
University Grants commission.
(b.) a  Postgraduate diploma in Law obtained from a University recognized by 
the University Grants commission or Postgraduate diploma in Law from the 
institute of advanced Legal Studies of Sri Lanka Law college 
(c.)   From a University recognized by the University Grants commission
• Degree in Law with  First Class pass
• Degree in Law with Second Upper Class pass
• Degree in Law with  Class pass
• Degree in Law with Genaral pass
(d.)   First Class pass in the final year of the Law College 
Second  Class pass in the final year of the Law College
Note I : If  the final examination of Law  College has been passed with Honors  
pass the above mentioned 05 marks  will be awarded
( Marks will be awarded only for highest qualification)
25
20
15
10
07
05
10
05
25

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2198
Serial
No.
Subject Maximum
marks
02 Additional Experience
Preparation of documents pertaining to the cases and appearing before the open court
Marks for the 
cases filled (Per 
case)
Marks for appearing 
before the court (Per 
case)
Supreme court 2 5
appeal court 2 4
High court 2 3
district court 4 5
t ribunal 2 3
Note
The copies of the relevant judgments or a certified copy of the case report on the date of 
last hearing of the case should be submitted to the interview board in proof of the above 
qualifications.
35
03 Knowledge in Information Technology/ Information and Communication 
Technology Law
(a) Should have followed Information Technology or Computer Science as a main subject 
of a degree from a University recognized by the University Grants commission
(b) diploma in information and communication t echnology Law from a University 
recognized by the University Grants commission or  Sri Lanka Law college  or 
other V ocational institution recognized by the government.
(c) diploma in computer Science or information t echnology from a University 
recognized by the University Grants commission or diploma in computer Science 
or information t echnology in level NVQ-5 or above from other institution.
(d) Certificates obtained from   a university recognized by the University Grants 
commission    or  Sri Lanka  Law college  or other V ocational institution recognized 
by the government, having followed courses and attended for trainings  in the field 
of information & communication t echnology Laws (marks will be awarded  for 
maximum  of two certificates, awarding 02 marks each,  )
( Marks will be awarded only for highest qualification)
10
08
05
04
10
04 Language Proficiency:
(a) a  degree obtained from a university recognized by the University Grants 
Commission, with English Language as a main subject.
(b) Fluency in English Language demonstrated at the recognized international or 
national level Moon court competitions  
15
12
15

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2199
Serial
No.
Subject Maximum
marks
individual
      i. First Place/ Merit – 12
     ii. Second Place-10
    iii. third Place/Other skills – 08
Groups
      i.  First Place/ Merit – 10 
    ii.   Second Place-08
   iii.   third Place/Other skills – 06
(c)  diploma in English Language obtained from a university recognized by the University 
Grant commission or a diploma in English Language of SLQF Level  3 or higher level 
obtained from any other institution or a diploma in English Language obtained from 
a government training institute/institution affiliated to a government training institute 
having followed a course of minimum 1500 study hours.
(d) Having obtained at least distinction pass for English Language in G.c.E. (advanced 
Level) Examination (Local or London) or iEL tS -  an overall score of 6.5 or above. 
t OFEL- ibt  79 or above, t OEFL-cbt  213 or above or t OEFL-Pbt  550 or above
(e)  An Advanced Certificate in English Language obtained from a university recognized 
by the University Grants Commission or certificate in English Language at SLQF 
Level 2 obtained from any other institution.
(Marks will be awarded only for the highest qualification)
10
08
05
05 Merit shown in the interview
•	 Strength questions 
•	 Situational questions 
•	 competency questions 
of the applicant that assist to perform duties of the post
Marks are awarded according to the answers given to the questions intended to be 
evaluated
02
03
10
15
Total marks 100
7. Identity of the Candidates:
Only those who have completed the application in every respect are invited for the interview for evaluating eligibility.
Originals of all certificates and copies of the certificates duly certified by the candidate himself should be furnished at 
the interview.
the following identity cards are accepted to establish the identity of the candidate at the interview.
 1. Valid National identity card issued by the commissioner General of the department of Registration of Persons.
 2. Valid Passport.
155
125

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2200
8. method of Application:
 i. applications should be sent by registered post to reach the address “Surveyor General, No.150, Narahenpita, 
colombo 05” on or before 17.11.2024 Applications received after the closing date will be rejected.
 ii. a  specimen of the application to be preferred is appended at the end of this notice.  applications should be prepared 
in A4 size papers indicating the items No. 01 to 04 on the first page and the items No. 05 to 07 on the second page 
and No.08 to 09 on the third page and perfected in candidate’s own handwriting.
 iii. the top left corner of the envelope containing the application should be marked as  “Recruitment for the Post of 
Legal Officer in grade III”.
 iv. the signature of the applicant should be attested by a Principal of a Government School/ Justice of Peace/
Commissioner for Oaths/Attorney-at-Law/Notary Public/ Commissioned Officer of the Three Armed Forces or a 
permanent staff officer in the Public Service or Provincial Public Service drawing a consolidated monthly salary of 
Rs.47,615/- or above.
            
 v. candidates who are already in the Public Service or the Provincial Public Service should forward their applications 
through the respective Heads of departments in which they are presently serving.
 vi.  The applications not conforming to the prescribed specimen application will be rejected without notice. No 
complaints will be entertained over loss or delay of applications.
9. furnishing false information:
 if any information furnished by you in the application is found to be false or erroneous before the recruitment, your 
candidature will be revoked. in case any such false or erroneous information is detected after the recruitment, you will 
be dismissed from service subject to the procedure related thereto.
10. The Public Service Commission reserves the right to fill or not to fill the vacancies. 
11. in the event of any inconsistency or discrepancy between the Sinhala, t amil and English texts of this Gazette Notice, 
the Sinhala text shall prevail.
12. in the case of any matter not stated in this Notice or where it may cause a problematic situation in the process of 
recruitment, the decisions made by the Public Service Commission thereon will be final.
       by order of the Public Service commission,
Secretary,
Ministry of agriculture, Lands, Livestock, irrigation, Fisheries and aquatic Resources,
On 04th October 2024.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2201
SPECImEN A PPLICATION f ORm
RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of LEGAL OffICER (GRADE I II I N ExECuTIvE S ERvICE CATEGORy)
Of SuRvEy  DEPARTmENT uNDER Th E m INISTRy O f AGRICuLTuRE, L ANDS, L IvESTOCk,
IRRIGATION, f IShERIES AND AQuATIC RESOuRCES - 2024
( F or office Use only)  
(indicate the number applicable to the medium applied in the relevant cage.)
Sinhala – 2/ tamil - 3 English - 4 
Note : – Medium applied cannot be changed
01.
:…………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………….
1 .1 Full name ( Mr./Mrs./Miss)
(in Sinhala/tamil)
1.2Fullname : …………………………………………………………………………. 
( in block capitals) …………………………………………………………………………… 
1.3 N ame with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss)  :…………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………….(in Sinhala/tamil)
          Eg.M.G.b.S.k. Gunawardha na
1.4Name with initials :……………………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Eg. GUNaWaRdH aNa M.G.b.S.k.
02.
2.1 Permanent address :…………………………………………………………………………… 
(in Sinhala/tamil)
2.2 Permanent address :……………………………………………………………………………. 
(in b lock capitals)
03.
3.1 Gender  : Male - 0 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Female - 1
3.2 Marital Status:  Married – 1      (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Unmarried -2 
3.3 date of birth:  
3.4 age as at 17 .11.2024: 
3.5 National identity card No. :
4.0 telephone Number : Fixed
Mobile
year Month date
year Month days
N
N

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2202
5.0
5.1 details of  q ualifications that have been obtained as per the notice for inviting of applications to apply for the 
interview : 
Qualified institution date obtained
………………………… ……………………………………………………. …………………….. 
………………………………………………………………………………. …………………….. 
date sworn as an at torney –at Law in Supreme court            ..……………………. 
* Having a ttested the  c ertificates /documen ts proving basic q ualifications by t he applicant himself t hat t hey are t rue and  
should be furnished with t he  a pplication.
details applicable to o btain e ach  q ualification  u nder  No.06  o f  th e notice f or  i nviting o f  a pplications.
5.2 additional Educational Qualificatio ns :……………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………………………………………………… 
5.3 additional P rofessio nal experience :……………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………………………………………………… 
5.4 knowledge i n  information technology / information technology Law   :…………………………………… 
………… …………………………………………………. 
……………………………………………………………. 
5.5 Language Proficiency  :………………………………………………………………………………………. 
……………………………………………………………………………………….. 
………………………………………………………………………………………. 
*documents proving additional qualifications shall not be sent with the application and it is the responsibility of the
applicant keeps them ready for the interview .
6.0 Have you ever been convicted before a court of Law?
indicate in the relevant cage) (if yes, give details)
................................................................................................................................................................................
7.0 can didate’s declaration  : 
i do solemnly declare th at the particulars given by me in the application are true and correct and all parts of
this application have been filled up accurately and i am aware that if my declaration is found to be false, i am
liable to disqualification before selection and to dismissal from service if detected after the appointment and i am 
bound to abide by the rules and regulations.
.............................. ……. ......................................, 
date   candidate’s Signature . 
8.0 atte station of candidate’s Signature:
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................................................. who submits this application is personally 
known to me and he/she has placed his/her signature in my presence on this.............day of ………………… 
................................... ...........................................................,
date    Signature of the attestor of the signature . 
yes No
SPECImEN A PPLICATION f ORm
RECRuITmENT TO ThE POST Of LEGAL OffICER (GRADE I II I N ExECuTIvE S ERvICE CATEGORy)
O f  S uRvEy  D EPARTmENT uNDER Th E m INISTRy O f AGRICuLTuRE, L ANDS, L I vESTOCk,
IRRIGATION, f IShERIES AND AQuATIC RESOuRCES - 2024
(For office Use only)  
(indicate the number applicable to the medium applied in the relevant cage.)
Sinhala – 2/ tamil - 3 English - 4 
Note : – Medium applied cannot be changed
01.
:…………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………….
1.1 Full name ( Mr./Mrs./Miss)
(in Sinhala/tamil)
1.2 Full name : …………………………………………………………………………. 
(in block capitals) …………………………………………………………………………… 
1.3 N ame with initials (Mr./Mrs./Miss)  :…………………………………………………………………………… 
…………………………………………………………………………….(in Sinhala/tamil)
          Eg.M.G.b.S.k. Gunawardha na
1.4 Name with initials :……………………………………………………………………………
(in block capitals)
Eg. GUNaWaRdH aNa M.G.b.S.k.
02.
2.1 Permanent address :…………………………………………………………………………… 
(in Sinhala/tamil)
2.2 Permanent address :……………………………………………………………………………. 
(in b lock capitals)
03.
3.1 Gender  : Male - 0 (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Female -  1
3.2 Marital Status:  Married – 1      (indicate the relevant number in the cage)
Unmarried -2 
3.3 date of birth:  
3.4 age as at 17 .11.2024: 
3.5 National identity card No. :
4.0 telephone Number : Fixed
Mobile
year Month date
year Month days
(

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2203
5.0
5.1 details of  q ualifications that have been obtained as per the notice for inviting of applications to apply for the 
interview : 
Qualified institution date obtained
………………………… ……………………………………………………. …………………….. 
………………………………………………………………………………. …………………….. 
date sworn as an at torney –at Law in Supreme court            ..……………………. 
* Having a ttested the  c ertificates /documen ts proving basic q ualifications by t he applicant himself t hat t hey are t rue and  
should be furnished with t he  a pplication.
details applicable to o btain e ach  q ualification  u nder  No.06  o f  th e notice f or  i nviting o f  a pplications.
5.2 additional Educational Qualificatio ns :……………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………………………………………………… 
5.3 additional P rofessio nal experience :……………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………………………………………………… 
……………………………………………………………………… 
5.4 knowledge i n  information technology / information technology Law   :…………………………………… 
………… …………………………………………………. 
……………………………………………………………. 
5.5 Language Proficiency  :………………………………………………………………………………………. 
……………………………………………………………………………………….. 
………………………………………………………………………………………. 
*documents proving additional qualifications shall not be sent with the application and it is the responsibility of the
applicant keeps them ready for the interview .
6.0 Have you ever been convicted before a court of Law?
indicate in the relevant cage) (if yes, give details)
................................................................................................................................................................................
7.0 can didate’s declaration  : 
i do solemnly declare th at the particulars given by me in the application are true and correct and all parts of
this application have been filled up accurately and i am aware that if my declaration is found to be false, i am
liable to disqualification before selection and to dismissal from service if detected after the appointment and i am 
bound to abide by the rules and regulations.
.............................. ……. ......................................, 
date   candidate’s Signature . 
8.0 atte station of candidate’s Signature:
i certify that Mr./Mrs./Miss ............................................................. who submits this application is personally 
known to me and he/she has placed his/her signature in my presence on this.............day of ………………… 
................................... ...........................................................,
date    Signature of the attestor of the signature . 
Name in Full:
designation:
address:
(Should be authenticated by the official seal)
9.0 . certification of the Head of the department/institution (Only for candidates serving in the Public Service)
I hereby certify that the above mentioned Mr./Mrs./Miss…… ………………………………………………..is 
serving in this institution , the particulars furnished by him/her are tru e , work and attendance are 
satisfactory, there is no charge against him/h er and if selected  to this po st he / she   can be released from the 
service of this institution.
...................................................................,
Signature of the Head of the department/ institution . 
Name:
designation:
address:
date: 
(Should be authenticated by the official seal)
10-130
,
.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2204
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. 
LAND  SuR vEy COuNCIL
Calling Applications to provide facilities for acquiring 
practical experience in order to register with the Land 
Survey Council
aRRaNGEMENtS  have been made to provide the 
required practical experience through the Sri Lanka Survey 
department in order to obtain the registration with the Land 
Survey council in terms of the Section 39 of the Survey 
act, No. 17 of 2002. accordingly, the Land Survey council 
has decided to call applications from the individuals who are 
desirous of obtaining the said practical experience.
Therefore, the individuals, who fulfill the academic 
qualifications specified in the paragraph (a) of the Schedule 
to the Survey act read together with the Section 39 of the said 
act, can apply for this and further, the individuals who are 
currently undergoing the training as apprentice Surveyors at 
the Sri Lanka Survey department do not require to forward 
applications in this regard.
all applicants are required to submit their applications 
online through the uploaded application form provided in 
the official website of the Land Survey Council i.e. www.
landsurveycouncil.org and a downloaded printed copy of 
the filled application form should be sent by registered post 
to reach the "Secretary, Land Survey council, Surveyor 
General's Office, No. 150, Bernard Zoysa Mawatha, 
colombo 05" on or before 18.11.2024. 
  W. Sudath L. C. Perera.
  chairman.
Land Survey council,
Surveyor General's Office,
No. 150, 
Bernard Zoysa Mawatha,
colombo 05.
10th October, 2024.
10 - 157
DEPARTmENT  Of ExAmINATIONS ,  
SRI  LANkA  
Open Competitive Examination for the 
Recruitment to the post of Grade III of 
Examination Data Assistant (Departmental) of 
management Assistant Non-Technical – Segment 2 
Service Category - 2024 
APPLICATIONS are invited from qualified Sri Lankans 
for Open competitive Examination for the Recruitment 
to the post of Grade iii of Examination data assistant 
(departmental) of Management assistant Non-t echnical 
– Segment 2 Service category of the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, to fill 20 vacancies in the post. 
Note – the approval for this recruitment has been given 
by letter No. MPS/HRd/HR03Recru.Process/2022/06 
and dated 03.01.2023 issued by the Ministry of Public 
Administration, Home Affairs, Local Government under 
the subject “Review of Process of Recruitment to the Public 
Service”,
01. the application for this purpose is available in the 
website of the department of Examinations, Sri Lanka 
www.doenets.lk   and the applications may submit from 
21
st  October 2024 at 09.00 hours to 19 th  November 
2024, 21.00 hours. applications strictly be submitted 
online and the applications submitted otherwise will not 
be accepted.
1.1. Officers currently in public/ provincial public 
service should handover a copy of the application 
to the head of the institution to be kept in the 
personal file. A copy of the application and a 
service affirmation letter certified by the head of 
institution should be provided when called for the 
interview. 
1.2 this examination will be held only in colombo 
in January 2025 as per the regulations of the 
department of Examination, Sri Lanka. the 
commissioner General of Examinations has the 
power to cancel or postpone the examination at his 
discretion. 
02. Qualifications:- 
2.1 Educational Qualifications.
I. Should have passed General Certificate of 
Education (Ordinary Level) Examination with 
six (06) subjects including credit passes for 
Sinhala/ t amil/ English language, Mathematic 
and two other subjects at one sitting.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2205
and 
II. Should have passed General Certificate of 
Education (advanced Level) at least in one (01) 
subject (except the Common General Test and 
General English subjects).
2.2 Professional Qualification 
Should have obtained at least Level 3 of National 
V ocational Qualification (NVQ) with regard to the 
field of computer/ information and communication 
technology or an equivalent qualification of 
the above field recognized by the Tertiary and 
V ocational Education commission. 
2.3 Experience
Should have 06 months experience in computer 
data entering. 
2.4 Physical Qualifications 
Every applicant should be physically and mentally 
fit to perform the duties of the post and ability to 
serve during day and night according to the service 
requirement.
2.5 Other Qualifications  
 i. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 ii. Should be of excellent moral character.
 III. Should have fulfilled all the qualifications 
required to be recruited to the post as at the 
closing date of applications (19.11.2024).
 iV . No person holding priesthood of any religion 
is allowed to apply or appear for this 
competitive examination. 
2.6 age limit 
the candidate should be not less than 18 years and 
not more than 35 years of age as at the closing date 
of applications. 
 (accordingly only those whose birthdays fall on 
or before 19.11.2006 and on or after 19.11.1989 are 
qualified to apply)
03. Language medium:- 
this examination shall be conducted in Sinhala and 
tamil languages only. candidates will not be permitted 
to change language medium stated in the application. 
the language medium stated in the application shall be 
the qualified language medium for your appointment. 
04. method of re
cruitment:-
Recruitments shall be made to above posts on the order 
of merit of the marks scored by applicants at the written 
examination, structured interview and practical test as 
per the vacancies available.
4.1. Written test 
Subject Time Maximum 
marks 
Pass 
marks
1. computer 
literacy 
2 hours 100 40%
Syllabus:-  
1. Computer Literacy – A question paper to assess the subject 
knowledge equivalent to Level 3 of National V ocational 
Qualifications in the fields of  computer / information and 
communication technology.
Note -  candidates securing 40% or more marks in the 
written examination paper will be selected and called for 
structured interview in double the number of available 
vacancies among the highest scoring candidates as per the 
index number/ alphabetical order based on their merits of 
scores.
 4.2 Structured interview : 
 Education qualifications, professional qualifications 
and practical skills of the candidate will be assessed.
Main areas for 
which marks will 
be given 
Maximum 
marks 
Minimum 
mark 
considered for 
selection
I. additional 
educational 
qualifications 
30
Not applicable.
II. additional 
professional 
qualifications
35
III. Skills 
displayed at 
the interview 
05
total marks 70
Note – a comprehensive marking scheme for each structural 
interview will be prescribed by the commissioner General 
of Examinations subject to the maximum mark allocated for 
the main areas stated in the above table.

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2206
4.3.  Practical test
Activates tested Maximum 
marks
taking printed copy of the given 
document as it is. 10
time consumed for type writing 
and taking printed copy. 10
For the accuracy of its spelling 10
total marks 30
 a practical test to assess computer type writing skill shall be 
conducted for candidates appeared in structured interview.  
the candidates shall be given a document with several 
paragraphs to computer type write and to obtain its printout 
within an exact duration. 
4.4. Recruitments shall be made to above posts on the 
order of merit of the marks scored by applicants at 
the written examination, structured interview and 
practical test as per the vacancies available.
05. Employment and Service Conditions
 i. this post is permanent and pensionable. y ou will 
be subjected to the government policy decisions 
taking on your pension scheme.  y ou are required to 
contribute to the Widows’/ Widowers’ and Orphans’ 
Pension Scheme.
 II.  This appointment shall be subjected to a period of 03 
year probation. 1st  Efficiency Bar Examination should 
be passed within 03 years from the appointment to the 
post. the appointees whose work, attendance, conduct 
are satisfactory during the period of probation shall be 
confirmed in the post. 
 iii. in terms of provisions in the Public administration 
circular No.18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and incidental 
circulars, proficiency in the official language other 
than the language of recruitment should be acquired 
within three years from the recruitment.
 iV . this post is a limited service to the department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka. However, the appointees 
are subjected to be appointed in any part of the 
island within the department. as the day and night 
shifts continues depending on service requirements, 
it is mandatory to act accordingly after accepting the 
appointment. 
 V . Selected candidates shall be subject to the procedural 
rules of the Public Service commission, the provisions 
of the Establishment code, the Financial Regulations, 
departmental Orders and other regulations and orders 
issued by the Government from time to time.
06. Issuing results 
all candidates appeared for the examination shall be 
notified the results personally by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations by post or via website, www.
results.exams.gov.lk.
07. Salary Scale (monthly)
MN-01-2016 as per the public administration circular 
No. 3/2016, Rs. 27,140 - 10× 300 - 11× 350 - 10× 495 
- 10× 660 - Rs. 45540/-
08. Promotional Scheme 
the recruitment scheme of Management assistant – Non 
technical – Segment 2 service category (departmental) 
Examination data assistant shall be applicable. 
09. method of Applying  
 i. applications will be accepted via online only. Online 
applications should be filled in English language only. 
acceptance/ non acceptance of online applications 
will be notified to your mobile phone by Short 
Message Service (SMS). download the common 
instructions prepared on applying for the examination 
prior to completing the online application. Follow 
the instructions when completing the application.  
candidates should keep in hand a printed copy of the 
application for future inquiries.   Particulars in the 
online system as at the closing date of applications will 
be considered as accurate.  incomplete applications 
will be rejected without prior notice.
 ii. applicant should pay an amount of Rs. 600/- as 
examination fees. Only the following methods of 
payment provided by the online system should be 
used when payment of examination fees.   
 i. With any bank credit card.
 ii. With any bank debit card with internet payment 
facility.
 iii. Via bank of ceylon online banking bill payment 
method.
 iV . Via  any branch of the bank of ceylon.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2207
Note :- instructions to make payments as above are 
published under technical instructions of the above 
examination in the website of the department of 
Examination.
 iii. Receipt of payment will be informed through SMS 
or an e-mail. Entire amount of the examination fee 
should be paid and the applications with less or over 
paid applications will be rejected. The Department of 
Examinations Sri Lanka will not be responsible for 
any defects committed in payment of examination 
fees via above payment methods.  
 iV . Fees paid for the exam will not be refunded or 
transferred for any other exam for any reason.
 V . commissioner General of Examinations will issue 
admission cards for the applicants, who have correctly 
submitted the online application on or before the 
closing date of applications with accurately paid 
examination fees upon the presumption that only 
the applicants who have fulfilled the qualifications 
prescribed in the Gazette Notification. Immediately 
after issuing admission cards to the candidates, it will 
be noticed in the official website of the Department 
of Examinations, Sri Lanka and the candidate will be 
noticed via Short Message Service (SMS) and e-mail. 
any candidate, who has not received the admission 
card, should inquire the same from the institutional 
Examinations Organization branch of the department 
of Examinations Sri Lanka as stated in the notice.   
applicants should accurately mention title of the 
examination applied, full name of the applicant, 
National identity card number and the address 
when inquiring. if the applicant is residing outside 
Colombo, it would be effective for the applicant to 
inquire the same by forwarding a letter of request to 
the fax No. mentioned in the notice via fax along with 
above information while mentioning a fax No of the 
applicant to receive a copy of the admission card. it 
will also be useful to keep a copy of the application 
and the receipt of payment of examination fees ready 
to confirm any information asked by the Department 
of Examination. 
 Vi. issuing an admission card to a candidate shall not 
be considered as an acceptance of his /her being 
qualified to face the examination or being qualified 
for the post.  
 Vii. candidates must prove their identity in the written 
examination and in the structured interview to the 
satisfaction of the supervisor for each subject they 
appear in the examination hall. any of the following 
documents will be accepted in that regard.
	National identity card, 
	Valid Passport,
	Valid Sri Lankan driving license. 
Furthermore, the candidates should enter the 
examination hall without covering their faces and 
ears so that their identity can be verified and also not 
wearing any electronic equipment or accessories.  
applicants who refuse to prove their identity will not 
be admitted to the examination hall. Furthermore, 
from the moment of entering the examination hall 
until the end of the examination and leaving it, 
the applicant must remain uncovered so that the 
examination authorities can identify him. 
10. The candidates are subjected to the rules imposed by 
the commissioner General of Examinations with regard 
to the conduct of examination and releasing of results. 
Violation of those rules will make him/her liable to a 
penalty imposed by the commissioner General of 
Examinations.
 commissioner General of Examinations,
 department of Examinations, Sri Lanka.
 
On 18
th  day of October, 2024
at the department of Examinations, 
Sri Lanka,
 Pelawatta, 
battaramulla.
10-173

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2208
mINISTR y  Of  ENvIRONmENT ,  WILDLIfE ,  fOREST   RESOuRCES ,  WATER   SuPPL y, 
PLANTATION   AND  COmmuNITy  INfRASTRuCTuRE
National Institute of Plantation management - Athurugiriya
REcRUitMENt FOR  tHE  cOURSE  OF  tRaiNEE  EStatE  aSSiStaNt SUPERiNtENdENt
tHE  National institute of Plantation Management was established by act, of Parliament No. 45 of 1979 under the 
Ministry of agriculture and Plantation industries, establishing the sole government institution for the advanced study and 
professional skills development program of those employed and aspiring to engage in the plantation sector.
For the academic year 2024/2025 the following course is mentioned.
iNdUctiON PROGRaM FOR PLaNtatiON MaNaGEMEN t  aNd tEcHNOLOGy  (iPPMt) - PLaNtER tRaiNEE 
PROGRaM (assistant Superintendent t raining)
duration – One year. (01)
Phase i  – For 06 months' full time study
Phase ii – 06 months' estate related entry training
Medium – English
admission Fee  – Phase i Rs. 450,000.00 (with residential facilities) 
age Limit – Maximum age limit 22 years
Admission Eligibility
G.C.E. (O/L) Examination, passing Six (06) subjects in not more than two sittings for award passes in the Three subjects 
of English, Mathematics and Science.
and
G.C.E. (A/L) Passing three (03) Core Subjects; 
or a
Have passed diploma in agriculture from a recognized institution.
How to Apply
duly completed applications for these courses should be submitted on or before 30th October 2024 to the director/
Chief Executive Officer, National Institute of Plantation Management, M.D.H. Jayawardena Mawatha, Athurugiriya, 
Sri Lanka, in the format given below. the position applied for should be clearly mentioned in the upper left corner of 
the envelope. applications can be submitted by registered mail or online through the website www.nipm.gov.lk.
For more details
011-2770232
074-0801966

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2209
NATIONAL	INSTITUTE	OF	PLANTATION	MANAGEMENT
APPLICATION	FOR	ADMISSION
Name	of	the	Programme
Name	in	Full	:	Mr.	/	Mrs.	/	Miss.	/	Dr.	/	Prof.	(	Use	BLOCK	LETTERS)
Name	with	initials
Permanent	address Employer
Tele.	No.
Designation	:
Oficial	addressMobile	No.
E-mail
National	Identity	card	No.
Marital	status Date	of	birth
Single
Married
Tele.	No.
Fax	No.
Date Month Year
FM/TR/03

<!-- page 18 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2210
G.C.E	(O/L)	Examination
EDUCATIONAL	QUALIFICATIONS	
G.C.E	(A/L)	Examination
Subject Grade Year Subject Grade Year
PROFESSIONAL	QUALIFICATIONS
How will you inance your professional studies at the institute?
Institute Qualiication Year
COURSE	COMPLETED	AT	THE	NIPM
Course Year
Period
WORK	EXPERIENCE
Organization Designation YearPeriod
FINANCE
Self Sponsored
Payments can be made to the credit of NIPM Current Account No. 3697566 maintain at any branch of Bank of 
Ceylon ( BOC) and the printed “Customer Deposit Slip” should be forwarded to NIPM, Athurugiriya in order to 
obtain oficial receipt for payment. ( Name to be written in bank deposit slip for identiication of the payee)
If sponsored, by whom ?
Signature of the Applicant
Date
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true & accurate and agree to 
abide by the rules and regulations governing the above course.
Signature of the Sponsor
Date
Payments	Procedure	for	the	programmes
NATIONAL	INSTITUTE	OF	PLANTATION	MANAGEMENT
APPLICATION	FOR	ADMISSION
Name	of	the	Programme
Name	in	Full	:	Mr.	/	Mrs.	/	Miss.	/	Dr.	/	Prof.	(	Use	BLOCK	LETTERS)
Name	with	initials
Permanent	address Employer
Tele.	No.
Designation	:
Oficial	addressMobile	No.
E-mail
National	Identity	card	No.
Marital	status Date	of	birth
Single
Married
Tele.	No.
Fax	No.
Date Month Year
FM/TR/03

<!-- page 19 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2211
G.C.E	(O/L)	Examination
EDUCATIONAL	QUALIFICATIONS	
G.C.E	(A/L)	Examination
Subject Grade Year Subject Grade Year
PROFESSIONAL	QUALIFICATIONS
How will you inance your professional studies at the institute?
Institute Qualiication Year
COURSE	COMPLETED	AT	THE	NIPM
Course Year
Period
WORK	EXPERIENCE
Organization Designation YearPeriod
FINANCE
Self Sponsored
Payments can be made to the credit of NIPM Current Account No. 3697566 maintain at any branch of Bank of 
Ceylon ( BOC) and the printed “Customer Deposit Slip” should be forwarded to NIPM, Athurugiriya in order to 
obtain oficial receipt for payment. ( Name to be written in bank deposit slip for identiication of the payee)
If sponsored, by whom ?
Signature of the Applicant
Date
I hereby certify that the particulars furnished by me in this application are true & accurate and agree to 
abide by the rules and regulations governing the above course.
Signature of the Sponsor
Date
Payments	Procedure	for	the	programmes
10-174
__________________________
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION , SCIENCE  AND  TEChNOLOGy
tHE First Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of Sri Lanka Principals' Service - 2024 (The Officers who are in Sri 
Lanka Principals' Service Grade 3 and appointed to Sri Lanka Principals' Service class 3 on Supernumerary basis should 
be sat for the Examination.)
the part "Undertaking applications via online is initiated on following Monday after the publication in the Gazette 
Notification" the final sentence of the Para Number 05 in the Gazette Notification published dated 13.09.2024 of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka under the heading aforementioned, is hereby repealed and the final date of 
undertaking applications mentioned under Para Number 07 is extended up to 30 th of October 2024.
02. The other facts mentioned therein shall be effective without any change.
J. M. Thilaka Jayasundara,
the Secretary,
Ministry of Education, Science and technology.
16th of October, 2024,
at the Ministry of Education, Science and technology,
isurupaya, Pelawatta, battaramulla.
10 - 196/1

<!-- page 20 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2024'10'18
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 18.10.2024
2212
mINISTR y Of EDuCATION , SCIENCE  AND TEChNOLOGy
tHE  Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers of Sri Lanka Principals', Service - 2024 (The officers who are in  
Sri Lanka Principals' Service Grade 2 and appointed to Sri Lanka Principals' Service class 2 Grade ii on Supernumerary 
basis should be sat for the Examination.)
the part "Undertaking applications via online is initiated on following Monday after the publication in the Gazette 
Notification" the final sentence of the Para Number 05 in the Gazette Notification published dated 13.09.2024 of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka under the heading aforementioned, is hereby repealed and the final date of 
undertaking applications mentioned under Para Number 07 is extended up to 30th of October 2024.
02. The other facts mentioned therein shall be effective without any change.
J. M. Thilaka Jayasundara,
the Secretary,
Ministry of Education, Science and t echnology.
16th of October, 2024,
at the Ministry of Education, Science and t echnology,
isurupaya, Pelawatta, battaramulla.
10 - 196/2
PRiNtEd  at  tHE   dEP aR tMENt  OF   GOVERNMENt  PRiNtiNG ,  SRi  LaNka.