

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1901$22 - 2015 fmnrjdß ui 13 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'02'13
No. 1901/22  -  FRIDAY ,  FEBRUARY  13,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A)  -  PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
1A
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
NORTH   WESTERN   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
North Western Provincial Social Services Statute No. .............. of 2015 of the North Western Provincial Council
I do hereby notify that the North Western Provincial Social Services Statute No. ............ of 2015 of the North Western
Provincial Council published hereunder will be presented in the Provincial Council of the North Western Province at the
expiry of thirty days from the date of its publication in this gazette.
Any person who wishes to make any representation regarding any of the provisions of the Statute, shall forward
same to me within the said period of thirty days.
SANDYA S. KUMARA RAJAPAKSE,
North Western Provincial Minister of Social
Welfare, Probation and Childcare, Women’s Affairs,
Rural Industry Development and
Rural Development.
On this 11th of February, 2015,
North Western Provincial Minister of Social Welfare,
Probation and Childcare, Women’s Affairs, Rural Industry
Development and Rural Development,
2nd Floor,
North Western Provincial Council Secretariat,
Kurunegala.
3 — PG  2369

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
2A
NORTH  WESTERN  PROVINCIAL  SOCIAL  SERVICES  STA TUTE  No. ............... OF ....................
A Statute to provide for the rehabilitation of destitute persons and families residing in the North Western Province and for the
efficient maintenance of social services including rehabilitating physically, mentally and socially handicapped persons and
providing aid for persons who are feeble and for those who cannot engage in any employment and providing for their social
welfare and to provide for matters incidental thereto.
Be it enacted by the North Western Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows :
1. This Statute may be cited as the North Western Provincial Council Social Services Statute
No. .................. of ....................., and shall come into operation on such date, as the Governor of the
North Western Province may approve.
2. The objects of this Statute are as follows :
(1) to provide aid and relief for poor and destitute persons residing in the North Western Province
who need to be provided with welfare services and to rehabilitate them ;
(2) to care, rehabilitate and develop physically, mentally and socially handicapped persons and
aged persons who have become destitute ;
(3) to register, supervise, regulate homes/Institutions maintained for physically, mentally and
socially handicapped persons and aged persons on voluntary basis or for commercial or
other purposes and provide aid to voluntary homes/Institutions ;
(4) to provide aid for poor and destitute persons and for those who cannot engage in any
livelihood as they suffer from Tuberculosis, Cancer, Leprosy, Thalacemia and other identified
exceptional diseases.
P
ART  I
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PROVINCIAL SOCIAL SERVICES DEPARTMENT, ITS COMPOSITION,
POWERS AND FUNCTIONS
3. There shall be established a Department to be called the North Western Provincial Department of
Social Services (hereinafter referred to as “the Department”) to achieve the objects of this Statute.
4. (1) The North Western Provincial Director of Social Services (hereinafter referred to as “the
Director”) who shall be an Class I officer of the Sri Lanka Administrative Service shall be the
Head of the Department established under Section 3 above.
(2) The Department shall consist of two Departmental Assistant Directors, Heads of Institutions
which are under the purview of the Department, three Headquarter Social Service officers one
each for every 15 Divisional Secretary’s divisions and adequate number of social service
officers, other officers and employees to assist the Director.
(The approved staff may very depending on the government policies)
(3) The provisions of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 shall apply to the appointment,
transfer, dismissal, disciplinary control of the staff of the Department and the matters
incidental thereto.
(4) All officers appointed for the purpose of this Statute shall be deemed as Public Officers with
the meaning of the Penal Code.
Short Title and
date of
operation.
The objects of
the Statute.
Establishment
of the
Department of
Social Services.
Appointment
of the
Director.
Composition
of the
Department.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
5. The duties and functions of the Department are as follows :
(1) to pay public assistance monthly allowance to poor families ;
(2) to pay assistance allowances to Tuberculosis, Cancer, Leprosy and Thalacemia patients of
poor families, on the recommendations of a Committee comprising of a qualified Medical
Officer.
(3) to provide relief to persons and families who have become destitute having faced with
informalities and to rehabilitate them ;
(4) to establish and maintain homes/institutions for the aged for senior citizens and to rehabilitate
them ;
(5) to establish and maintain homes/institutions for the handicapped and mentally retarded
persons and maintain pre-schools and skills development centres and to rehabilitate them ;
(6) to provide handicapped persons in poor familites who seek assistance with equipments such
as spectacles, hearing aids, wheel chairs, tricycles, hand rests, clutches, walkers, contact
lenses, fabricated limbs etc. to avoid difficulties they face ;
(7) to provide maintenance assistance and due assistance to registered voluntary organizations/
institutions which house and care for aged and handicapped persons and to provide block
grants to institutions which provide such services and to supervise such institutions ;
(8) to provide rehabilitation services for persons who have become or are susceptible to become
socially helpless ;
(9) to provide counseling services to persons and families who are or susceptible to become
mentally aggrieved due to various reasons in the society and thereby rehabilitate them and to
establish and maintain counseling centers ;
(10) to conduct special studies, surveys and researches in relation to the objects of the Section 2
above ;
(11) to provide relief to persons and families who have become destitute having faced with
informalities and to persons and families who have become destitute having faced with
comprehensive disasters and have not been covered by all other relief services provided by
all State institutions and to rehabilitate them ;
(12) to register all institutions within the North Western Province which house and care for aged
and handicapped persons, to formulate standards for the provision of services by these
institutions, to inspect whether such standards are adhered to, to take legal action against
institutions which do not register themselves or do not adhere to the standards, to provide
maintenance assistance and due assistance to registered homes maintained on voluntary
basis, to provide block grants to institutions which provide such services and to supervise
and regulate such institutions ;
(13) to provide maintenance assistance for the aged/handicapped persons who are referred to
registered homes maintained on voluntary basis, on the approval of the Director of Services
or by the Court ;
(14) to provide educational assistance to children in destitute, dismantled and widowed families
with sick and handicapped persons ;
The duties and
functions of the
Department.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
4A
(15) to provide accommodative housing assistance to low income earning families with no
housings ;
(16) to provide special medical assistance to patients recommended by a Committee comprising
of a medical practitioner to be treated for a prolonged period of time ;
(17) to organize programmes to rehabilitate families of those who are imprisoned.
6. (1) Any person or institution shall furnish to the Director of Social Services such information or
records as may be necessary to discharge and achieve duties and objects referred to in this
Statute as and when demanded by him or any other persons authorized by him.
(2) The Director of Social Services or any officer duly authorized by him shall for the purpose of
this Statute, have the power -
(i) to enter ;
(ii) to search ;
(iii) to examine ;
(iv) to inspect ;
(v) to survey ;
(vi) to examine documents, to obtain information as may reasonably necessary for the
purpose ; and
(vii) to take into possession of necessary documents at all reasonable times of the day
without prior notice any home for the aged, any home for handicapped persons or any
institution maintained for social service activities which are situated in the North Western
Province notwithstanding whether they are registered with any institution or not.
7. All homes and service providing institutions maintained on a voluntary basis in the North Western
Province for the purpose of execution of duties and functions indicated under Section 5 shall be
registered with the Department of Social Service.
(1) In the case of a home or an institution maintained by a foreign Non-government Organization,
such registration with the Department of Social Services shall be done after it has been
registered with the Secretariat for the Registration of Non-Governmental Organizations of the
Ministry of Social Services of the Central Government.
(2) All homes and institutions providing social services which are to be commenced within the
North Western Province on whatever basis for the purpose of execution of duties and
functions indicated under Section 5 shall be temporarily registered with the North Western
Provincial Department of Social Services prior to such commencement.
(3) The home/institutions which is so commenced shall obtain the permanent registration
immediately upon the completion of a period of one year from the commencement.
(Grant of temporary registration after 6 months based on the necessity)
P
ART  II
NORTH WESTERN PROVINCIAL SOCIAL SERVICES FUND
8. There may be established and maintained a fund which shall be called the “North Western
Provincial Social Service Fund” for the purpose of achieving the object referred to in Section 2 of
this Statute.
Powers of the
Department.
Homes/
Institution
maintained for
the purpose of
duties and
functions of the
Statute to be
registered.
North Western
Provincial Social
Services Fund.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
9. (1) The Director of Social Services shall maintain a separate Account in a State Bank in favour of
the fund.
(2) There shall be credited to the Fund —
(i) all such sums of money as may be provided from time to time by the state as grants ;
(ii) all such sums of money voted by the Western Provincial Council for the purpose of the
Fund ;
(iii) all such moneys received as foreign aids and provided by the state under Section 22 of
the Provincial Council Act ;
(iv) all such sums of money as may be received by way of concerts, lotteries and other
accepted sources ;
(v) all such sums of money as may be received by way of donation made by local or foreign
persons, institutions or organizations.
(3) There shall be paid out of the fund all such sums as are required to defray any expenditure
incurred for the achievement of the objects of this Statute.
(4) Provided however, that when a sum of money is received under paragraph (iii), (iv) and (v) of
Sub-section (2) above on the condition that such money should be spent for a specific purpose,
the acceptance of such money to the credit of the fund shall be at the discretion of the Minister.
10. The Secretary of the Ministry shall be responsible for the administration of the fund with the
approval of the Minister, through a Board appointed by the Minister at his discretion.
11. The Financial Year of the Fund shall be the calendar year.
12. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution relating to the audit of the accounts of public
corporations and the financial rules of the Western Provincial Council shall apply to the audit of
accounts of the fund.
13. The Minister shall within six months after the expiry of the calendar year table a report on the
administration of the fund in respect of the year, a copy of the audited statement of accounts for the
year and a report of the Auditor General on the said accounts.
P
ART  III
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
14. The Minister in charge of the subject of Social Services shall appoint a Board of Trustees consisting
of the following members for the administration of the fund established to achieve the objects
referred to in this Statute :
(1) The Secretary of the Ministry in charge of the subject of Social Services in the North Western
Province, Chairman ;
(2) Director of Social Services of the North Western Province Secretary ;
(3) The Deputy Secretary, Finance Management of the North Western Province ;
(4) Two other representatives from reputed voluntary organizations appointed by the Minister.
Western
Provincial Social
Services Fund.
Administration
of the fund.
The Financial
Year of the fund.
Audit of the
fund.
Statements of
Accounts of the
fund.
Appointment of
the Board
Trustees.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
6A
15. The term of the office of members appointed to the Board of Trustee shall be three (03) years. A
member of the Board vacating office by effluxion of time may be eligible for reappointment.
16. When an ex-officio member ceases to hold office by virtue of which he was appointed, his membership
shall cease forthwith and the successor to such office shall be appointed for the remaining period
of membership of his predecessor.
17. Any ex-officio member may resign from the membership on a written request made to the Minister.
18. The term of office of any member appointed to a vacancy created as a result of resignation or
removal of any member, shall be for the remaining period of term of the member who he succeeds.
19. Any member of the Board shall be disqualified from being a member of the Board, if he becomes or
is appointed a member of Parliament, member of a Provincial Council or a member of any local
authority from the day he is so appointed.
20. The quorum for any meeting of the Board appointed under Section 14 shall be three members.
21. The meeting of the Board of Trustees shall be convened at least once in every 03 months.
22. The Minister in charge of the subject of Social Services shall remove from office, any member
appointed to the Board, if he/she is convicted by any Court or found guilty of any act of misconduct.
P
ART  IV
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
23. Any person who —
(1) knowingly furnishes false or erroneous information on any report or on any document prepared
or submitted under or for the purpose of this Statute or any regulation made there under ;
(2) fails or refuses to submit any information or any report required by this Statute ;
(3) fails to execute any order or regulation made by the Director of Social Services without on
reasonable grounds ;
(4) obstructs any person acting in pursuance of any duty conferred on him by this Statute or any
regulation made there under ;
(5) contravenes or fails or neglects to comply with the provisions of this Statute or any regulation
made there under ;
shall be guilty of an offence under this Statute.
24. When an offence is committed under this Statute, the Director of Social Services or any other
official duly authorized by him shall have the power to institute action.
25. Any person who commits an offence under this Statute shall on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine of not less than Rupees Ten Thousand (Rs. 10,000/-) and not more
than Rupees Hundred Thousand (Rs. 100,000/-) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six (06)
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
Term of office.
The quorum.
Offences
Power to
institute action.
Penalties.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
Any person who commits any offence under this Statute shall on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine of Rs. 5,000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
(06) months or to both such fine and imprisonment.
P
ART  V
GENERAL
26. The Ministry may make regulations in respect of all matters in relation to which regulations are
authorized or required to be made by this Statute.
27. Every regulation made by the Minister shall be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or on such date as may be specified in such regulation.
Every regulation made by the Minister shall within 03 months after its publication in the Gazette, be
brought before the Provincial Council for approval. Any regulation which is not so approved by the
Provincial Council shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval but without
prejudices to anything previously made there under and a notification of the date on which any
such regulation is deemed rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.
28. The provisions of the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987 shall apply to grant and expending of
financial provisions necessary for the maintenance of institutions established under this Statute.
P
ART  VI
INTERPRETATION
29. In this Statute unless the context otherwise requires :
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Social Services in the Provincial
Council of the North Western Province.
“Director” means the Director of Social Services appointed to the North Western Province
under the Provincial Council Act, No. 42 of 1987.
“Informalities” means minor natural damages caused by reasons not widely spread and beyond
the control of a person.
“handicapped” means a person with hearing, sight or speech, difficulties, difficulties in mobility
mental retardation or other physical deformities.
“a poor” means a person who cannot survive on his own unless he is provided with basic
assistance.
“fund” means the fund established under Section 8 of this Statute.
“public assistance” means the assistance granted on a monthly basis to poor, aged and sick
persons and physically and mentally retarded persons who have no means of income.
Minister to
make
regulations.
Financial
Provision for
Departmental
Activities.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) fldgi  - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'02'13
PART IV (A)  - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 13.02.2015
8A
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.
“voluntary institution” means an institution established by a group of citizens on a voluntary
basis :
1. which is non-governmental, and dependent upon public donations, contributions,
grants in aid provided by the government and local and foreign aids, in the execution
of its functions ; and
2. of which the basic objects are to provide assistance and outdoor and indoor
services necessary for mentally or physically disabled persons, poor, destitute
and helpless persons and to provide assistance in natural disasters.
30. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and Tamil text of this Statute the Sinhala text
shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.
02 - 831