

<!-- page 1 -->

1AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
1 A – G 18700 — 165 (2013/12)
wxl 1840$13 - 2013 foieïn¾ ui 09 jeks i÷od - 2013'12'09
No. 1840/13  - MONDAY ,   DECEMBER   09,  2013
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government  Notifications
w;s úfYI
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
My No.  : CI/728/2004.
THE  INDUSTRIAL  DISPUTES  ACT  (CHAPTER  131)
THE award transmitted to me by the Arbitrator to whom the
Industrial Dispute which has arisen between Ceylon
Mercantile Industrial and General Workers Union, No. 03,
22nd Lane, Colombo 03 of the one part and  Whittal Boustead
Ltd., 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 / Mortlake Press, Whittal
Boustead Ltd., Peliyagoda / Mr. B. S. N. Mendis, Proprietor, S
& N Enterprises, Dhammmarathne Avenue, Rawathawatte,
Moratuwa of the other part was referred by order dated
23.07.2004  made under section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputed
Act, Chapter 131, (as amended)  and published in the Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Extraordinary No. 135 2/28 dated 06.08.2004  for settlement
by Arbitration is hereby published in terms of Section 18(1)
of the said Act.
V . B. P. K. W
EERASINGHE,
Commissioner of Labour.
Department of Labour,
Labour Secretariat,
Colombo 05,
26th November, 2013.
Ref. No.  : CI/728/2004.
In the matter of Industrial Dispute
BETWEEN
Ceylon Mercantile, Industrial and
General Workers Union,
No. 03, 22nd Lane,
Colombo 03.
of the One part
Case No. A - 3051
and
1. Whittal Boustead Ltd,
148, V auxhall Street,
Colombo 02.
2. Mortlake Press,
Whittal Boustead Ltd,
Peliyagoda.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk.
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  

<!-- page 2 -->

2A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
3. Mr. B. S. N. Mendis
Proprietor, S & N Enterprises,
Dhammarathne Avenue,
Rawathawatte,
Moratuwa.
of the Other Part
THE  AW ARD
1. The Honourable Minister of Labour and foreign
employment Relations & Manpower by virtue of the powers
vested in him under Section 4(1) of the Industrial Disputes
Act Chapter 131 of the Legislative Enactments of Ceylon (1956
revised edition) as amended by Acts, Nos. 14 of 1957, 4 of
1962 and 39 of 1968 read with Industrial Disputes (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 37 of 1968 appointed me as the Arbitrator
by his order dated 23rd  July 2004 and referred the dispute
between the aforesaid  parties  for settlement by arbitration.
2. The matter in dispute between the aforesaid parties are :-
(1) “Whether the termination of the services of the fifty
eight (58) employees whose names are referred to in
the attached schedule and who were employed in
the permanent service of the Mortlake Press which
is affliated to the Whittal Boustead Ltd., is justified.
If not justified, to what relief each of the said
employees is entitled and
(2) Whether the termination of the services of the thirty
eight (38) employees whose names are referred to in
the attached schedule and who were employed on
contract basis in the Mortlake Press which is affliated
to the Whittal Boustead Ltd., is justified. If not
justified, to what relief each of the employees is
entitled.”
Schedule of Permanent Employees
H. J. Fernando - Enpdbd Perera - W. M. Sumanadasa - K. A.
A. Kuruppu - N. S. Kekulawala - H. S. Wimalasiri, K. G . Sumith
- G . M. Ranaweera - P. H. P. Laxman - K. P. L. U. Bandarage - W.
A. S. Prashanna - K. G .  S. Kumara - D. Y . L. Perera - A. A.
Jayasena - W. P. S. R. Dayan - K. H. C. Ranatunga - S. G. D. C.
K. Wijeratne - J. M. C. Kumara - S. M. N. Kumara - B. M. S. S.
Basnayake - P. Wijendran - S. C. K. Ranasinghe - P. W. A. A.
Priyantha - M. D. M. Senanayake - S. R. P. Jayasekara - H. M.
P. S. Kumara - K. W. S. K. Jayasundara - A. A. S. S. Perera - I. P.
S. Liyanage - B. M. A. R. Kumara - Ajith Kalahe - K. P. Perera -
G . Samarapala - D. H. Wimaladasa - P. W. Perera - H. N. Peiris -
D. D. Pushpakumara - W. P. A. Prasanna - S. P. A. Jayatilleke -
G . S. Weerasinghe - P. A. C. Pannala - S. G . Fonseka - I. I. K. W.
Mendis - N. P. Edirisinghe - L. Dayapala - W. W. J. C. F. Fernando
- Y . P. Amarasekara, D. B. P. Perera - R. M. R. Bandara - M. A.
W. Wijegunawardene - A. A. A. Gunatunga - W. A. S.
Jayasinghe, G. W. L. Premakumara - D. L. A. S. Kumara - W. A.
S. Kumara - K. P. D. Kumararatne - S. S. Jayatileke - P. S. M.
Anurudda.
Schedule of Contract Basis  Employees
K. K. G. Samarasiri - E. H. C. K. Manju - K. Saman Kumara -
K. P. P . Kumara Perera - M. J. B. V . Sandaruwan - S. D. S.
Nandana - J. R. M. J. Anurudda - K. Premanath - A. K. G .
Bandara - A. N. Sameera Gamag - Y . M. D. Dhanushka
Navarathna - H. Somarathne Pathma Kumara - S. Chaminda
Sellahewa - D. D. K. Sampath Sanjeewa - A. C. Chaminda
Kumara - U. A. N. Priyadhashana Uggalla - J. A. M. S. P. Sampath
- D. Lalith Weerasinghe - I. P. R. Sanath Kumara -  D. A. Uditha
Samaradivakara - S. Sanjeewa Hennayake - R. P. A.A. Roshan
Dilruk - R. M. Pradeep Amarawansa - R. A. Priyanka Kularathne
- M. P. D. K. Cyril Kumara - R. M. Namal Ratnayake - Jai
Prasanna - D. M. Wasantha - Gunasiri - D. Thevin de Silva -
K. P. S. S. Kumara Premanath - M. A. Wasantha Kumara - H. K.
D. Nishantha Mendis - S. A. D. Sumith Priyalal - R. A. Buddhika
Sampath - K. Wilson - A. R. H. M. N. Anuradda Bandara -      K.
A. P. B. Mahesh Premasiri.
3. Mr. Bala Tampoe, General Secretary, Ceylon Mercantile,
Industrial and General Workers Union, (hereinafter referred as
CMU) assisted by Mr. E. V . N. Cabral, appeared for the
Applicant Union.
Mr. Gomin Dayasiri - Attorney -at-Law assisted by Mrs.
Manoli Jinadasa, Attorney-at-Law appeared for the 1st and
2nd Respondents, while late Mr. W. Karunajeewa, Attorney-
at-Law appeared for the 3rd respondent, subsequently Mr.
Sagara Kariyawasam, Attorney-at-Law succeeded him.
The 2nd Respondent, Mortlake Press is a pseudo name
and, as such is neither a legal nor a natural person.
Applicant Union marked documents A-1 to A-12, while
1and 2 respondents’ marked documents R-1 to R-32.
4. K. Priyantha Perera, a machine operator, on behlaf of the
applicant Union stated that -
(a) He joined the firm in 1991 as a casual hand, worked
as a binder and shifted to machines thereafter, was
made permanent in November 1992. He joined the
Industrial and Commercial Workers Union in 1992,
but at the time of termination of employment, was a
member of CMU, to which he joined in 2000 ;

<!-- page 3 -->

3AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(b) As the Assistant Secretary of Industrial and
Commercial Workers Union, participated in
discussions with the management. During this time,
the firm Whittal Boustead Ltd. was taken over by
John Keels. The Press worked in two shifts - Day
shift from 7.45 a.m. to 7.30 p.m. and Night shift from
7.30 p.m. to 4.14 a.m. ;
Check off facility was available to the Industrial and
Commercial Workers Union, and when the workers
joined the CMU, that facility was extended.
(c) A Collective Agreement was in operation, between
Industrial and Commercial Workers Union and the
Management. Afterwards workers joined the CMU,
There were no changes in the terms and conditions
provided in the Collective Agreement ;
Sanjeewa Fernando of the Management at a
discussion requested us not to join the CMU. The
Collective Agreement was in operaton from 1992, is
to expire in 2002.
(d) Once the CMU came to the scene, the casual
employees issue was discussed and on Head
quarters instructions, the casual employees were
enrolled to the Union, and membership money was
collected ;
When Dinesh Mendis a casual hand was terminated,
Branch Union officials met Taraka Silva, Human
Resources Manager, who requested them to discuss
with Shiran Mendis.
Then Shiran Mendis worked at the Packing Section,
and he was a Sub-contractor. There were several
Sub-Contractors from time to time. He knew of one
Mack, Boteju, Gratien, Lanka and Shiran Mendis. He
was not aware that a firm by the name of S & N
Enterprises was in existence and that its proprietor
was Shiran Mendis. Some employees were aware of
the existence of S and N. Enterprises owned by Shiran
Mendis, and some of them had some connections.
(e) The check off facilities were granted in terms of the
various Collective Agreements that existed even from
1992. Having shown the Sinhala version of the
relevant Collective Agreement, which operates with
effect from 01st September, 1999, a party to the
Agreement is required to give written notice of 6
months to abrogate the agreement. If no, notice was
tendered the agreement continue to be in force. CMU
had failed to notice the other party ;
He had no knowledge of the laws governing then
and those enshrined in the Collective Agreement.
He acted purely on the instructions of Jeganathan
and Bala Tampoe, Secretary and General Secretary
respectively.
(f) Membership fees collected from non - permanent
employees were not in conformity with the check off
facility stipulated under the Collective Agreement.
Rs. 490/- represents fees in respect of 38 employees,
but later changed to 23. The receipt for Rs. 490/-
issued by the Head quarters, had been altered. Even
the carbon copy had alterations ;
Branch Officials enrolled 23 casuals out of 38. But
regarding causals CMU had not informed, either to
Taraka Silva or  S & N Enterprises about joining the
Union.
(g) Union had not given 6 months notice, in terms of the
Collective Agreement to rescind it. He was unaware
of the provisions concerning strikes, in the Collective
Agreement. (page 9 of notes of / 28.3.2006). Also,
General Secretary authorized the Branch to go ahead
with the strike, but never explained the provisions in
the Collective Agreement (Page 10 of notes of /
28.3.2006). The matter in dispute had not been taken
before Labour Department prior to the strike (Page
12 notes of  28.03.2006) ;
(h) Concerning the termination of Dinesh Mendis, Taraka
Silva requested him to contact Shiran Mendis, who
said that he will look into it, when enquired. On 2nd
night, Dinesh was stopped, on 3rd discussed with
Shiran Mendis, on 4th not report, on 5th did not
work, since casual employees were stopped, and on
6th gave notice of strike at 10 a.m. ;
(i) In view of he closure of S and N Enterprises, the
employer of 38th employees, the permanent
employees were incapable of working, without their
help. As such requested the management to intervene
(document A-05) - page 14 - of notes 03.05.2006. In
terms of A-5, the Union had taken up the case of
casual employees. Most of the machines required
the help of 4 employees of which one happens to be
a casual. In some machines, 2 casuals were deployed.
There were occasions when only permanent
employees worked in machines ;
On the 5th casual employees had told him that the
services have been stopped. He had not asked
whether these employees received any letters to that
effect. In spite of that, the workers decided to launch
a strike, even without discussing with Shiran Mendis
or S and N. Enterprises.

<!-- page 4 -->

4A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(j) Most of the printed matter were in relation to export
food items and others were local saleable matter.
Various orders were given priority subject to
evaluation, wherein the dates of completion becomes
vital. The printed documents indicate the dates of
product manufacture and the dates of expiry, which
explains the importance of printing on a specific time
frame.
5. Chandana Pannala, Letter Press Employee, on behalf of
the applicant Union stated that -
(a) He joined in 1992 on casual basis, and now works in
the Letter Press, is now permanent, and holds the
position of Branch President of the Union. Was a
member of the former Union, Industrial and General
Workers Union and in 2000 joined the present
Union ;
(b) In January, 2004 had discussions with the General
Secretary, CMU concerning casual employees, who
advised then to enroll the casuals to the union and
23 were enrolled. On 2nd February, 2004, Dinesh
Mendis had been stopped from work and on the
following day the matter was brought to the notice
of Taraka Silva, the Human Resources Manager, who
has no knowledge of that, was asked to talk to Shiran
Mendis ;
Taraka Silva was told that 23 casual employees had
joined the Union, and he asked for a list. He was
shown a receipt by Priyantha. Thereafter met Shiran
Mendis who said that he will look into it. But nothing
happened.
(c) On 3rd, went for the night shift, which starts at 7.30
p.m. and the casual employees gathered at the gate
who said that they were put out and to do something.
He went inside the factory and discussed with the
committee members, who proposed that the matter
needs to be discussed with management. Then talked
to Gamini Wijewardana and Lalith Jayawardana, who
in turn said that they cannot say anything about it
but, asked them to work. Branch Union officials told
them that without the casuals help they were not in a
position or mood to work, and since there was no
response, they applied sick leave on-massc, 4th was
the National Day and 5th was the Poya day. On the
6th morning went for work although rostered for the
night shift, in order to discuss the issue with the
management.
Having discussed with committee members, around
10.00 a.m., followed up witha a discussion with
management, but had no response. At about 11.00
a.m. Priyantha gave a letter indicating the inabilities
to perform the work. They were summoned to the
Board room, all the Committee Members were there.
Priyantha himself participated, and there was no relief.
Management was informed that with the concurrence
of the CMU, will launch strike action and on the
10th, employees received letters terminating
employment.
(d) He had two permanent employees to assist in the
machines and no casuals. Casual employees did the
work of permanent employees, even if the permanent
employees do not come for work. They worked in
machines as well. Permanent employees worked on
holidays, but was not compulsory. Later, said that
one’s name needed to be in the rostered list, to work
on such days. He was aware that most of the printed
materials are for export items which have to be
completed within a stipulated time frame. As such
there was a system in shift arrangement. In view of
the situation that emerged, he came on 6th morning
although rostered for the night shift. Instead of
working, applied sick leave as they were mentally
disturbed, which decision was taken  by the Branch
Union without consulting the parent union. He had
no casuals to assist, only permanent employees.
Although could have worked, as Union President,
of the branch had to follow the views of the
colleagues. He said that on 6th he along with
Priyantha and Committee Members (In all about 10)
discussed with the management, but management
requested to discuss with Shiran Mendis. When
discussed with Taraka Silva, he saidhe cannot assist.
After the discussion with the management in the
Board Room, came out of it, and then talked to Mr.
Rohitha Kumaraswamy, but he was adamant. As such
contacted the parent Union, and thereafter decided
to proceed with strike action. On 6th around 11.00
a.m. Union decision was conveyed to the
Management and they refused on the same day
(document R - 18) ;
(e) All the permanent employees were written to asking
them to report for work on 09th (document R-19) and
on 10th management sent out letters of termination,
since even on 09th they continued the strike.
(Document A-03) had been signed by him as
President of the Union concerning the Collective
Agreement asking, members to suggest proposals
for a new Collective Agreement. Further said that he
was of the opinion as he had discussions with CMU,

<!-- page 5 -->

5AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
the Collective Agreement had lapsed. He admitted
that they changed from the provious Union prior to
2000 and (Document A-3) had been in 2002, but had
not reply to what happened from 2000 to 2002 ;
(f) On reading the para 2 of the Collective Agreement it
require 6 months notice if the Collective Agreement
is to changed and at no stage the Union had given
such notice. In terms of the Collective Agreement for
the Union to take trade Union action, 7 days notice
is required-clause 29 of the Collective Agreement.
He admits that with introduction of 1999 Collective
Agreement their service conditions changed. There
was no change of such conditions, even though the
Union changed. He was reluctant to admit and by
letter (document R-19) the action of the union seems
illegal. In reply deny the suggestion of management
that the Unin action was illegal ;
(g) About the previous contractor and what they did-
Boteju, Gratien, Shiran etc., the witness was aware
that 2 lists were available to arbitrator-one concerning
permanent employees and the other for contracts
employees. None of the contract employees were
present as at 26.08.2009. He was unaware of the
employment status of the contract employees, and
their discipline administratin. He was not aware that
Shiran Mendis employed them, paid them including
discipline administration concerning contract
employees and not a single contract employee
appeared in courts to state their case. Shiran Mendis
had informed then that due to economic reasons, he
cannot keep them in employment.
6. Dona Ramyalatha Sendanayake, Book-keeper of CMU,
on behalf of the applicant Union stated that -
(a) She joined the establishment in 1985, as a Book -
Keeper and presently in charge of the Accounts
Division, from 2003 ;
(b) The procedure in joining the Union is :
Firstly, General Secretary accepted joining ; secondly,
filled in applications are handed over with
membership fees, thirdly, counts the number of
applications and issue receipt for the fees received,
fourthly, the applications are entered in the register,
fifthly, the applications are presented to the executive
committee, which meets on every Wednesday. And
sixthly, the Executive Committee approves and
returns the related documents.
(c) The applications of members, register and receipt
books, including the receipt in respect of 23
employees, which works out to Rs. 490/- were shown.
The Executive Committee had approved applications
on 28.01.2004
(d) She admitted that there were mistakes in documents,
the receipt in respect on Rs. 490/- had been
interpolated in several places and such
interpolations/alterations have not been initialed ;
(e) Since the Treasurer, is not at Union Office, his Rubber
Seal is used in receipts issued by the Union.
7. Wasantha Kumara Peiris Malwaththage, Accountant ,
on behalf of the 1st and 2nd Respondents stated that -
(a) The Mortlake Press was one department of Whittal
Boustead Ltd. Mainly the firm worked as an Agency
house for the management of estates planted with
tea, rubber and coconut owned by foregin
companies. With the introduction of the Land
Acquisition Act, ownership of land was limited to 50
acres. In consequence, the Estate Agency work
diminished and printing press emerged as the major
activity, exclusively packaging materials of food
products ;
(b) Making of tea bags for Tea exporting companies of
repute, date of expiry of products enclosed, with date
of manufacture are marked, for this purpose to be a
reality, printing matter has to be planned on a given
time frame. The job ticket indicate the date on which
the printed matter has to be completed by the
workers ;
(c) Packed items and released to the local market as well,
wherein the food products, contain the dated of
manufacture and expiry, exhibited, meant for sale ;
(d) Tea cartons with brands names such as Impra Tea
(Leaf Tea, Raspberry Tea, Stuart Lanka Tea, Christen
Tea, Dilmah Tea, Darling Tea Smer Tea etc.) Milk
Powder brands such as Nestomalt, Anchor, Anlene,
Amma, Raththi Nido etc. Biscuit packages brands
Crest Fingers, Chicken Fingers, Delight, Fruit Cake,
Jambu Chicken Bite, Williams Tea time Biscuits, First
Fingers, Cake Boxes for Little Lion Company, Checo
Sponge Cake, Rajapaksha Cake, Bamboo Garden,
Coconut Milk varictics, various items of Elephant
House products etc. Most of the food products are
of shorter durability and packages need to be printed
2 – G 18700

<!-- page 6 -->

6A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
on time, else their usefulness will be lost. The
consumer protection Laws guarantee safety of the
user, as such there attaches responsibility to deliver
the packing material well before the scheduled times;
(e) This company was in operation for over 100 years
and was a leading Institution compared with other
competitors in the industry, such as, JF and i Printing,
Aitken Spence, Uniwalker Packaging, Middleway
Printing, Universal Packaging etc. The reputation the
company carried was to print and deliver on time ;
(f) With regard to the Collective Agreement, stated that
several benefits were provided to the workers,
thereby prevented any breakdown in the performance
of activities, expedieciously throughout ;
(g) To modernize the work in the press, management
ordered an automatic machine costing US$ 45,000, in
2003 October/November, which would speed up the
printing work. The machine came in February, 2004 ;
(h) Also explained the difficulties faced if printed matter
is sent after the due date. The dates shown in the
printed matter vary, which leads to suspicion,
especially in relation to food products, it may be
considered unsuitable for consumption. Furthermore
if delayed in the matter of shipment, the entire process,
will be a breakdown, There were negligible complaints
and as far as the company is concerned 99% to 98%
compliance on time was observed prior to the
strike ;
(i) Furthermore to overcome the possibilities of raw
material shortage, the company always had a stock
of material for 3 months, which ensures even shipping
delays ;
(j) A third party supplied manpower to assist in various
facilities, and their workers were paid by them. Even
disciplinary administration concerning them were by
the Third Party. The main functions were delivery of
paper required to the machines and once printing
was over, to remove the printed matter. The Labour
supplier, did supply labour numbers when required.
The company had a contract with the Labour supplier,
who was paid in terms of the Contract, for his workers,
EPF/ETF or bonus was not paid by the company and
no check off  facility afforded to his workers. From
the time he joined the organization, there were several
contractors who supplied unskilled labour ;
(k) Apart from the shift system, company paid incentives
on production, employees earned Rs. 13,000/- to Rs.
20,000/- monthly ;
(l) In terms of the contract with the Labour supplier he
is required to give notice of termination of contract -
vide Para 12 ;
(m) For the purpose of automation, company aimed at
investing Rs. 100 million and 2 machines were
ordered, in addition to raw materials. Most of these
items reached the company after the strike. These
items would not have been ordered if the company is
to face a grave situation of this nature ;
(n) All permanent employees were covered by the
Collective Agreement, and enjoyed the check off
whereas the Labour supplier’s workers were not ;
(o) Shiran Mendis has requested to stop workers
entering the press. When one of his workers, tried to
enter, he was stopped at the gate. When the other
employees enquired from the Human Resources
Manager, he denied knowledge of this development
and wanted them to ask Shiran Mendis ;
On the next day workers refrained from working
having applied sick leave en-masse ;
(p) Labour contractor’s workers had not informed the
management that they joined the Union, until to 03rd
February, either verbally or written ;
(q) It was on the 06th morning that the management was
informed of the strike action, Employees applied for
sick leave on 03rd, on 04th, on 05th they were present
but dit not work. As a result of the strike, the process
get destabilized in that, the delivery of the printed
matter gets changed ; as a result packing to the
containers gets delayed ; Since date of manufacture,
expiry date have been printed, the packed items could
be exhibited for a shorter period ; if export items are
to exported by air or sea, if the delay is a possibility
and in consequence the prices vary considerably ;
(r) The company had received several awards, as a
results of supplying the printed matter within the
times agreed upon. If and when a sudden stoppage
occurs, only a limited number could be given over to
another press to expedite the outstanding order
Besides, certain tax concessions were given to this
firm and if given over to another printer, special
approval need to the obtained from customs.

<!-- page 7 -->

7AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(s) With the commencement of strike, the customers were
disturbed since their orders were getting delayed.
Some of them were abusive. After a while some of
them came to know of the strike and demanded the
art work and positives. With the withdrawal of orders
customers faced losses, as well as the company ;
(t) Although management had plans to expand the
business activities, with the strike on, all customers,
withdrew transactions with the firm and as a result
had to close down the press, the value of the new
machine was Rs. 33 million, that was sold for Rs. 16.2
million, thereby the loss was Rs. 17 million ;
(u) Explained the various processes in the press. The
operation of Off-Set Printing Machines, Guillatine
Machines, Code Machine, Pasting Machines, etc.
were highlighted, which were totally manned by the
Company employees, whereas, the workers of S & N
Enterprises, were involved in moving the paper and
boards from one machine to another ;
(v) S & E Enterprises was owned by Shiran Mendis and
had an agreement with the Company to Supply
Labour. It reveals that he had an agreement
commencing 01st May, 2002 and another covering
01st May, 2003 for one year each ;
(w) When an order for printing is received, office prepares
the job ticket, which states the details of the matters
to be printed. Such a job ticket is sent to Foreman
through the art room. In the case of tea packages it’s
3 years from the manufactured date to expiry date ;
(x) The company employees, when they report for work
they are required to swipe the respective cards. The
machine minder attached to the machine enter the
names of those who worked on the repsective
machines ;
(y) Witness said that he was unaware of any situation,
where a stoppage of work had occurred sometime
ago, with regard to a transfer ;
(z) In terms of para 12 of the agreement entered by Shiran
Mendis with the company, either party may give one
week’s notice if the Agreement is to be revoked within
the first month and 3 months notice to revoke
thereafter. However in the subsequent agreement,
effective on 01st May, 2003, which is far one year,
states that one week notice, if revoked within 3
months and thereafter one months’ notice. Also
Agreement stipulates certain conditions re-allocation
of work for his team by the management, It is termed
service order, prepared by the Production Division.
(aa) On 2nd January, 2004, Shiran Mendis sent in a
letter addressed to the General Manager of the
Company, stating his displeasure as the
amount paid was inadequate to pay the
workers ;
(ab) According to the agreement between Labour
supplier and the company a worker to be paid
Rs. 185.25 and GST plus Government Taxes,
which forms the wage for 8 hours per day. The
Labour supplier had given notice of one month,
in terms of the Agreement. The notice is dated
02nd January, 2004 and it ends on 02nd
February, 2004. The witness has no
recollection, as to whether, these workers
worked on 3rd February, 2004 ;
(ac) Concerning the Collective Agreement
negotiated by Industrial and General Workers
Union with the Company, CMU had initiated
the formation of their Union, and thereafter,
the check off facility had been extended to
CMU members. Paragraph 29 of the Collective
Agreement, states that 07 days notice of strike
need to be given by the union, and if there are
no other Collective Agreemets the provisions
of this  Collective Agreement prevail until a
new Collective Agreement comes in to
operation ;
(ad) Witness accepted the fact that there were 38
persons out sourced. And there had been more
sometimes. He also accepted the fact that
management received notice of termination of
contract and that his workers will not come
thereafter, Also management had discussions
with other Labour suppliers ;
Witness said that contract workers were
engaged in unskilled work. Company had
cleaning services security, binding etc. were
provided by outside contractors. Besides each
of the machines were operated by permanent
employeees skilled in operation of machines.
The catalogue stipulated the numbers required.
Apart from that, company obtained the outside
labour to do simple unskilled workers, such as
carrying paper and printed matter from one
machine to another, the witness was unable to
produce any record with regard to allocation
of work of contract workers, as they were
unimportant after the audit of Accounts.
(ae) With the closure of the press the building was
taken over by the owners, who requested the
company to vacate the premises urgently as
he wanted to put up a building. Most of the
documents which the union requested are not
available to produce in courts, since Union

<!-- page 8 -->

8A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
had not requested at the outset. There was
nobody to take change of any documents or
records after the closure. After the Audit, what
was considered essential were preserved ;
(af) Witness said that registered letters received
are marked in a register. There were no
formalities as placing a date stamp. Some letters
that are sent to the Managers may not have
initials of the receipient ;
(ag) The strike was so sudden and management by
then was in the process of finding alternatives.
Previously the permanent employees did some
functions done by the contract workers. In two
to three days management could have found
another supplier ;
(ah) Management informs the Labour Supplier, the
number of persons required and are not
requested by name. Management do not
expect such workers to operate machines. Such
workers interact on terms and conditions of
employment with B. S. N. Mendis. He said that
those workers never discussed their
employment matters with the company.
However B. S. N. Mendis had requested
increased pay for his workers, but management
had declined. In consequence B. S. N. Mendis
terminated his contract with the company ;
(ai) Importing countries have conditions attached
to their imports. Specially dates of manufacture
and dates of expiry are essential ingredients ;
(aj) Witness said that with the shifting from
Industrial and General Workers Union to CMU,
the terms and facilities agreed per the Collective
Agreement, were fully extended to the members
of the CMU as well, including check off.
8. Romesh Mecheal David, Director, on behlaf of the 1st
and 2nd Respondents stated that -
(a) In every order there is a maximum delivery date, which
forms an inviolate term of the contract, since every
exporter makes a commitment to his buyers, which is
expressed in the buyers order and the letter of credit,
that Tea will be processed and shipped by a specified
date ;
Exporter thereupon, in most cases, book space in a
vessel to ship the goods out. So the time line is
critical. Cargo need to reach port, at least 48 hours
before, the particular vessel arrives the harbour.
(b) In the Collective Agreement, dispute procedure is
explained in clause 27 and Trade Union action in
clause 29. In view of the sudden strike, the company
faced a crisis situation, in getting the products out,
as no printer would undertake to do such enormous
workload overnight and within 24 hours lost 75% of
orders ;
(c) The press was situated at Vauxhall Street premises
and moved to Peliyagoda, a very spacious spot, land
out on an organized fashion. Also started upgrading
the press with new machines, and infused additional
sales staff with knowledge of saled techniques ;
(d) In consequence of the strike, big orders of Ahmed
Tea, Unilevers, George Stuarts Ltd. moved their work
to other printing companies. Art work and positives
belonged to the customers. They removed, in order
to print them at other presses, who were our
competitors ;
(e) Operatives and the Associate Staff were on strike
other than the Administrative Staff. Since there were
no work without operational work, other staff had to
be discontinued and pay them compensation. As a
result the company lost over Rs. 50 Million within
the first 2 years (a direct loss) ;
(f) As a result of the strike, the company faced huge
loss of confidence among the customers, whom the
company could not retain, as such the management
took the decision to terminate striking employees,
lost all customers in the primary lines of business ;
(g) Prior to termination there were discussions
continuously, including the parent union, as well as
Employers Federation of Ceylon Strikers were asked
to work on the 09th in view of the crisis situation
company face with, in failing to keep up to the key
deadlines the customers expected ;
Per document R/9, workers were written to -
“You are requested to return to work by 09th February
2004. Should you fail to do, we have decided to
terminate your work on account of your participation
in an illegal strike.”
On 10th February, per document R-20, terminated
the services.

<!-- page 9 -->

9AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(h) For commercial reason, contract workers were
engaged in unskilled work. For doing different type
of job, wages varied. Janitoas and security staff were
also engaged on the same basis ;
Labour supplier Shiran Mendis, send document R-
25 to General Manager, a notice of termination of his
contract with the company. It was while Management
was  negotiating with the Contractor, even during
the notice period. His request was to increase the
amounts paid, as it was not viable.
(i) He was not aware of contract workers joining the
union, but said that he was not concerned since
contract workers were not company employees.
(j) He was one of the directors, amongst others. Whittal
Boustead Ltd. is an associate company of John Keells
Holdings by virtue of acquiring majority of share
holdings Mr. Gihan Dedigama was the General
Manager ;
(k) The manufactured cartons had a mark on each carton,
JK Packaging and Mortlake Press for the purposes
of temporary Import for Export, a separate firm was
formed to import packing material, so that such items
would be free from customs duty and also for Board
of Investment Bond, Once cartons are exported, in
terms of the arrangement no levy apply for the specific
purpose, the material had been used. If materials
imported under the said stock were not used, then
the items carry the name of Mortlak Press. J. K.
Packaging, which included expenditure concerning
wages of some employees ;
(l) The Press functioned as one unit for theAccounting
purposes, some of the work came under Whittal
Boustead while some of the work was done by J. K.
Packaging, it was one unified management, a single
unit, a single set of executives, a single profit centre
manager, but two legal entities ;
(m) It had been the practice in exsistence always to
engage contract workers, and noted that he was not
aware whether contract worked side by side with
permanent workers, he also denied Shiran Mendis,
working as a binder in the press ;
(n) Over the years, the press was running at a profit,
except in 2004, consequent to the strike, the loss was
substantial. An extract of the audited profit and loss
accounts as at 31st March, 2004 indicated a loss of
Rs. 34 million, as there was no revenue during
February and March as there was no work done.
(o) A collective decision was taken by the board on the
10th to shut down the press, where other members
of the management, along with Deputy General
Manager, the Production Manager, the Human
Resources Manager were present. Considering the
circumstances, the board decided not to proceed with
the previously sarctioned investment of
Rs. 150 million.
(p) The company and the contractor had been unable to
reach an agreement on the issue of an increase in
rate by the end of January or February or the date.
This happened and that was obviously the reason
why the contractor stopped the workers ;
(q) The closure of Mortlake Press was a painful decision,
as the institution had a thriving business that created
livelihood for a large number of people, satisfied a
great deal of customers and through the irresponsible
actions and ill thought of actions, hasty actions of a
few people forced the majority of the others into
acting like that, ultimately destroyed the business
for the whole group ;
9. 3rd Respondent, B. S. N. Mendis, made only written
submission which stated that :-
(a) Was the proprietor of  S & N Enterprises engaged in
the business of providing unskilled manpower to
various organizations and that during the relevant
period, supplied workers to Mortlake Press for its’
manpower needs under a contract entered with the
firm ;
(b) He submits that the 38 workers, referred to in the
schedule worked on contract basis at all times and
their salaries and other statutoty payments were paid
by him ;
(c) These workers were engaged on fixed term contracts,
since all of them were aware that he was only in a
position to provide employment to his workers
depends on the duration of the contracts he receives,
from relevant organizations, and fixed term contracts
were extended if these contracting parties extends
further ;
(d) Payment for manpower supplied were received by
him and those payments included the administrative
costs, profits as well as salaries and other payments
of his employees ;

<!-- page 10 -->

10A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
(e) Due to escalation of costs, he found it not
commercially viable to provide manpower at the
existing rate at that time and thus negotiated with
the company during latter part of 2003, but all such
negotitions failed, which prompted him to end the
contract and inform the employees, that under the
circumstances, the contracts with them will not be
extended ;
10. My findings and observations :-
(a) The applicant union’s two worker witnesses,
Priyantha Perera and Pannala, joined the firm as
casual employees, but were made permanent later
on. There is no evidence of any other casual
employees working in the establishment.
(b) The 3rd respondent Shiran Mendis, from the outset
states that he had a contract with Whittal Boustead
Ltd. for the supply of labour dependent upon the
numbers required from time to time. He had one year
contract in 2002 and on expiary negotiated another
one year contract, commencing 1st May 2003. In
terms of the contract, the unskilled were to be paid
Rs. 185. 25 plus GST plus Government Taxes. Either
party could give one month’s notice to rescined the
contract. Further he submitted that.
- The contract employees were his employees,
under fixed term contracts, dependent upon the
duration of the contract with the other party.
- He received payment for manpower supplied, and
those payments included his administrative costs
profits, salaries & other payments concerning the
employees.
- His employees  were well informed of the situation
and they had no objection to the decision of
terminating the contract, as he found out that it
was not viable to continue supplying manpower
due to rising costs.
- He negotiated with the company requesting an
increase in payment but negotiations resulted in
a failure, thus give notice to termination of the
contract with the management.
Section 45A read with Section 59(1) of the Wages
Boards Ordinance regarding sub-contracting provide
that -
Section 45 A - liability of contractor or in regard to
wages due to a worker employed by the sub-
contractor.
Where a person (hereinafter in this section referred
to as the contractor) who has undertaken to execute
any work enters in to a contract with any other person
(hereinafter in this section referred to as the sub-
contractor) for the execution by the sub-contractor
of the whole or any part of that work, then, if the sub-
contractor fails to pay wages in accordance with
Section 21 to any worker employed by him in the
performance of the contract, the contractor shall be
liable to pay the wages due to that worker in
accordance with that section.
Section 59(1) Liability of employer’ s agent.
Where an offence for which an employer is liable
under this Ordinance has in fact been committed by
some agent of the employer or other person, that
agent or other person shall be liable to be proceeded
against for the offence in the same manner as if he
were the employer, and either together with, or before
or after the conviction of the employer, and shall be
liable on conviction to the same punishment as that
to which the employer is liable.
Shiran Mendis, had duly notified the management
on 2nd January 2004 that he is terminating the
manpower supply contract. Management had
enough time and space to consider alternatives.
Instead had acted most irresponsibly and negligently.
(c) All permanent employees, who were under the
collective agreement changed their union to CMU in
2000. With the shift to the new union, the CMU from
2000 to 2004, there had been no changes in the
collective agreement, or changes in terms and
conditions of employment. Enrolment of contract
workers, to the union was initiated only in the
beginning of January 2004, until then branch and the
union were in deep slumber. Even the manner in
which, contract workers joined the union seems
unclear, in that, the use of a rubber stamp on the
receipt for Rs. 490/- and treasurer failing to give
evidence, to testify. The witness accepted the fact
that there were interpolations and alterations as such
its not authenitc. It’s of no evidential value. Besides,
most importantly, the applicant union, did not field a
contract employee to give evidence.
(d) The collective agreement, entered into between
Whittal Bousteads Ltd. and Industrial and General

<!-- page 11 -->

11AI fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
Workers Union, which was published in
Goverment Gazete (Extra Ordinary) No. 1172/16 of
20 February 2001, effective from 01 September 1999
stipulate amount other things the following
maters of importance to this dispute. They are -
“Clause 1 - parties covered and bound -
This agreement shall cover and bind Whittal
Bousteads Ltd., the Industrial and General
Workers Union and the members of the Union
Employed by the employer in the printing trade,
in the classes of employees enumerated in the
first schedule hereto and who are employed on
monthly contracts of employment by the
employer .”
Note : The first schedule, stipulate salary scales
relating to four categories only. They are classes
A, B, C and D. Classes E, F and Trade learners
and apprentices have been excluded.
“Clause 2 - Date of Operation and duration -
This agreement shall be effective as from the first
day of September One Thousand Nine Hundred
and Ninety Nine and shall thereafter continue in
force, unless it is determined by either party, giving
six months notice in writing to the other, subject
to the following provisions.
(a) ...........................................
(b) ...........................................
Note : The requirement of giving six months notice,
for alternation, modification or for entry into a
fresh agreement, had not been followed. It was
possible for the union to abrogate the agreement
giving sufficient notice.
“Clause 29 - Trade Union Action -
The Union and its members and the employees
covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the Federation, the Employer
that during the continuance in force of this
Agreement they shall not engage in any strike or
other form of trade union action against the
Employer in respect of any dispute between the
Employer on the one hand and the Union and / or
any one or more of its members and or any
employee or employees covered and bound by
this Agreement on the other hand whether or not
such dispute is related to this Agreement, except
where such dispute has been caused by an act of
the Employer which in the opinion of the
controlling body (by whatsoever name called) of
the Union is mala fide or vindictive or calculated
to thereaten or undermine the existence of the
legitimate activities of the Union and or its
members or is grossly unfair or seriously
detrimental to the interests of the Union and or its
members. Provided, however, that at least seven
days notice in writing shall be given by the union
to the employer, the EFC and the Commissioner
of Labour before the of commencement of any
intended strike or other form of trade union action
consequent on an act of the Employer which in
the opinion of the controlling body (by what so
ever name called) of the Union is mala fide or
vindictive or calculated to thereaten or undermine
the existence of the legitimate activities of the
Union and/or its members is grossly unfair or
seriously deterimential to the interests of the
Union and/or its members.
Note : The Union had failed to give 7 days notice
of strike or other of trade union action, to the
relevant authorities and the employer.
“Clause 30 - Variation of terms and conditions
of employment - benefits
The Union and its members and the employees
covered and bound by this Agreement jointly and
severally agree with the Employer that during the
continuance in force of this Agreement they will
not seek to vary alter or add to all or any of the
terms and conditions of employment presently
applicable to any of the employees covered and
bound by this Agreement as amended or altered
in terms of this Agreement, other than by mutual
agreement.
Note : Although, CMU was not a party to the
agreement, the employees covered are required
to comply with the terms during the continuance
of the agreement. The employees have breached
the provision of the agreement.
Collective Agreements are “Gentlemen’s Agreements”, they
are not created by any statute. If the employer had followed
the agreement fully and in good faith, there is a  moral

<!-- page 12 -->

12A I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;súfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2013'12'09
PART I : S EC. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 09.12.2013
obligation on the part of CMU as well as the employees to
give advance notice of strike, which they have not done. This
is a serious misconduct on the part of employees.
Award - In the final analysis, having examined the evidence
comprehensively I am convincted that several irresponsible
acts have been committed by both parties. In the
circumstances, I award that the 1st Respondent Whittal
Boustead Ltd., shall pay all permanent employees, numbering
58, the following amounts by way of ex-gratia payment.
(a) Persons over 50 years of age - Rs. 275,000/-
(b) Person below 50 years and over - Rs. 225,000/-
40 years of age
(c) Persons below 40 years of age - Rs. 175,000/-
The above amounts shall accordingly be paid within 45
days of the publication of the award in the Government Gazette
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Since none of the 38 contract basis employees of B. S. N.
Mendis the 3rd Respondent (who had a legally permissible
contract) with the 1st and 2nd Respondent made no claims or
testified in the Arbitration proceedings, those employees are
not entitle to any relief.
I consider this award just and equitable.
P. N
A V ARATNE,
Arbitrator.
31st October 2013.
12 - 1036
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.