

<!-- page 1 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2151
2151
wxl 1"782 - 2012 Tlaf;dan¾ 25 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'10'25
No. 1,782 – THURSDAY , OCTOBER 25, 2012
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) — ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Posts - Vacant ... ... 2154
PAGE
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. ... 2155
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 16th  November, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 02nd
November, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
23rd June, 2012.
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
N.B.— Part III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,781 of 19.10.2012 were not published.

<!-- page 2 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2152
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri
Lankan. A “Sri Lankan” is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by
registration as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in
Sinhala Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This
requirement will not apply to those who are in the public service from
a date prior to January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other
posts in the public service).
1:3  Application from the “New Entrants” Public Officers, who are
not either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial
appointments have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed
official language proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they
have obtained the qualifications which could entitle them to seek
exemptions from the highest proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or
Regulations and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by
the Governments from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of
the Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such
manner as the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the
Island.
3.  Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding
permanent appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above
Public Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the
following further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post.
Any appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of
probation without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions
of the Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may
be made from time to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the
Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service
either  in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a
working knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an
officer who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala
or  Tamil will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency
Test in one of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II
Proficiency  Test within two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test
(where applicable) within  three  years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or
until such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given
facilities on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in
one of the official languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the
relevant  proficiency examination and if he does not pass he will be
given  the opportunity to pass the examination within a  period of 2
years immediately after the period of 6 months on full pay, while  he
performs his normal duties.
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated.
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the
Public Service will not normally be required to serve the period of
probation on being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public
Service. Such Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in
the new post for a specified  period with a view to testing him in his new
post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding
permanent or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who
have already been medically  examined will be required  to undergo a
medical examination by a Government  Medical Officer to test their
physical fitness to  serve in any part of the Island.
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts
should contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from
their salary an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government
requires to recover from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their
consolidated salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The
Government will contribute as its share of contributions an amount
equal to 150% of the compulsory contributions credited to the fund at
the close  of the Financial Year.
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public
Service and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in
the Local Government Service and those officers in the Local
Government  Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are
released for appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service
will be allowed pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government
Service and Public Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability
in their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the
contrary in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any
member of the Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment
as a Public Officer in a post which has been declared to be pensionable
under these Minutes shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension
or gratuity payable under these Minutes.
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service :
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess
all the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of
their respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public
Officers holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public
Service. Heads of Departments in forwarding such applications should
state  whether  the applicants  could  be released or not to take up the
new appointment, if selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview
at an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be
paid in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to
influence the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect
will render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is
discovered before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the
selection.
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the
requirements of the advertisement will be rejected.
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated
salary and does not include any action salary, allowances etc.
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions :
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (II) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990
subject to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public
Administration Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2153
Rules  and   Instructions  for  Candidates
“All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions
of the Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.”
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
(i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one
subject or a part thereof ;
(ii) Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
(iii) Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of
one year or  two years ;
(iv) Debarment for life ;
(v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
(vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing
over  the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the
Police over his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any
time before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his
decision shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for
recruitment to the Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of
Examinations shall be subject to the Supervision of the Public Service
Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in
and around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the
Supervisor, his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter
and leave the Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination
they should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor
and his assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed
into the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the
commencement of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the
hall till after half an hour from the time of commencement of the
paper. Candidates who come late for Practical and Oral Examinations
are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index
number and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the
supervisor no candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of
a seat other than the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be
considered as an act with a dishonest intention.
5.  Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall.
A candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings
with any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a
member of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a
candidate to communicate with another, prior permission must be
obtained from the supervisor.
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate
is considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts
bearing an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be
rejected.
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any
other place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with
dishonest intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed,
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has
been answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed
out. Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an
attempt to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of
correct answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in
art if the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of
another candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be
considered as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates
out of the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the
property of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule
shall be liable to be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with
him or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise
book, sheet of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery
supplied to him. Nor should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other
than the candidate’s boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where
necessary or any file cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown
papers should be brought into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule
is a punishable act.
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book,
note book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the
Examination Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is
bound to declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this
requirement shall be considered as an attempt to commit an act of
dishonesty.
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the
answer script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or
any other source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer
script of any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping
another Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate
or a person. Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath
the sheet on which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper
should not be strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of
the paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the
hall, he/she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor
or his assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall
as well as before re-entering it.
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the
commencement of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering
with identity cards, presenting false identity cards or tampering with
someone’s identity are also such offences. Candidates are warned not to
commit such offences.
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a
person who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for
their own safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be
at the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement
of each paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the
Examination Hall, make inquiries on a day prior to the date of
Examination and be sure of its location.
(ii) In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or
eligibility to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor
and get your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your
candidature for the subject being cancelled.
(iii) When appearing for the Examination, candidates should
produce their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails
to produce identification documents at the Examination Hall, his
candidature is liable to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring
such documents into the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the
notice of the Supervisor and arrangements should be made to produce
them before the Examination concludes.
(iv) Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger
paper, precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that
is different from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the
others it should be promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No
paper other than those issued at the Examination Hall should be used
for answering questions. Excess paper and other material should be left
on the desk, in good condition. When log tables are supplied they
should be used with care and left on the desk when you leave.
(v) Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of
ink, erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured
pencils, coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down
your Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of
paper used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave
a blank  line after the answer to each part of a question. After the
answer to a full question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd
in your work.
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you
to enter the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin
is reserved for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there.
Number your answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to
confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head
of the question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the
manner in which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to
these instructions is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix) When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details
of calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the
working of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should
be accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral
pages if reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page,
that diagram should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the
order you answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied,
tie them up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right
hand corner.
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the
Supervisor or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is
collected.  Failure to do so may result in the loss of your script and your
being treated as an absentee for the paper. On no account should your
script be handed over to a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or
an Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise
your hand.
COMMISSIONER GENERAL OF EXAMINATIONS,
Department of Examinations,
Pelawatta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2154
Posts – Vacant
MINISTRY  OF  YOUTH  AFFAIRS  AND  SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
REGISTRATION OF EXTERNAL RESOURCE PERSONS AS
LECTURERS/INSTRUCTORS-2013 ACADEMIC YEAR
APPLICATIONS are invited for the registration of External Resource
Persons as Lecturers/Instructors in the Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges under this Department by the Directors/
Principals of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges, indicated
in the Schedule given at the end of this notice.
02. Specimen Application and list of subjects for which External
Resource Persons are required, can be obtain from the Director/
Principal of the College of Technology/Technical College where
you wish to serve by sending him a self addressed stamped envelope
(9" x 4"). The top left - hand corner of the envelope should be
marked "External Resource Persons". These particulars may also
be obtained from the Principals in person.
03. The last date for obtaining these particulars will be 30th
November, 2012.
04. General Information for Applicant :
(i) Applicants should note to give all particulars regarding
their qualifications and experience in the Educational,
Professional and Technical fields.
(ii) Fees.– Fees payable to External Resource Persons vary
from Rs. 200 to Rs. 400 per hour in accordance with
their experience, qualifications and level of the course
they are selected to serve.
(iii) Forwarding of Applications.– Applications from officers
in the Public Service should be forwarded through the
Heads of their Departments/Institutes with an
endorsement by the respective Heads to the effect that
their selection of the applicant as an External Resource
Persons will not affects their normal duties.
(iv) Selections.– Selections for these registrations will be may
subsequent to interviews conducted by the Director/
Principals of the respective Colleges. Preference will be
given to applicants with experience in teaching. Please
note that the registration can be terminated according to
requirements of the College by the Director/Principal,
without giving any reasons and at any time during the
Academic Year.
(v) Registered External Resource Persons should conduct
internal examinations in their respective subjects without
additional remuneration.
05. These registration are valid only for the Academic Year 2013
and may be terminated even earlier in accordance with the
requirements.
06. If an applicant wishes to apply for more than one subject,
separate applications should be sent for each such subject. All
applications should be sent to Director/Principal of the appropriate
College of Technology/Technical College under registered Post to
reach him before the closing date specified by him.
Dr. H. C
HITHRAL AMBAWATHTHE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557, Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk
L
IST OF COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES
Serial T echnical College/College of Address District
No. Technology
01 Sri Lanka College of T echnology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02 Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03 Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04 Jaffna College of Technology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05 Badulla College of T echnology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06 Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07 Kurunegala College of Technology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08 Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09 Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10 Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11 Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12 Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara

<!-- page 5 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2155
13 Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14 Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara Kalutara
15 Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16 Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17 Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18 Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara-Eliya Nuwara-Eliya
19 Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama Colombo
20 Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21 Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22 Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23 Balapitiya Technical College S tation Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24 Wariyapola Technical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25 Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26 Bandarawela Technical College Wewathenna, Bandarawela Badulla
27 Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28 Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29 Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30 Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31 Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32 Weerawila Technical College New T own, Weerawila Hambantota
33 Medagama Technical College Medagama (via Bibile) Monaragala
34 Polonnaruwa Technical College Vidyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35 Embilipitiya Technical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36 Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya Vavuniya
37 Akkaraipattu Technical College * Please see the note below Ampara
38 Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
* Applicants, who apply for the Technical College Akkaraipattu should obtained particular from the Principal of Technical College
Sammanthurai.
10–961
Serial T echnical College/College of Address District
No. Technology
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY   OF   YOUTH   AFFAIRS  AND   SKILLS
DEVELOPMENT
Department of Technical Education and Training
ADMISSION OF STUDENTS TO COURSES CONDUCTED
AT COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL
COLLEGES - 2013
APPLICATIONS are invited from eligible candidates for courses
conducted in Colleges of  Technology/Technical Colleges appearing
in this Gazette Notification. Students for admission will be selected
from among the applicants according to the qualifications and merit,
and the place available in each course.
02. The prospective candidates are advised to prepare their own
applications on a 13" x 8" sheet of paper in accordance with the
“Specimen Application Form” given in this notification. As specified
in item 12 in the specimen application form, each application should
be affixed with a valid Rs. 10  stamp duly cancelled with the candidate’s
usual signature. Duly completed applications should be sent under
Registered Cover to reach the Director/Principal of the
respective College of Technology/Technical College to which
admission is sought to reach him on or before 30.11.2012.
Applicants are advised not to submit applications to this
department or to any officer’s official or personal addresses.
03. The top left hand corner of the envelope should be marked
with the title of the course applied for, and its course code.
 E.g.:- National Certificate in Engineering Draughtsmanship
Course - ETC05
04. Applications received after the prescribed date will be rejected.

<!-- page 6 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2156
05. Candidates are required to fill in their applications carefully
with the Name and Code Number of the Course, College in which the
course to be followed and the Medium of Instruction of the Course
correctly. Requests made subsequently to change the College, Course
or Medium of instruction will not be considered under any
circumstances.
06. Fees will be charged from all those following Part Time and
Evening Courses in the following manner :
(i) Part-time/Evening Certificate Courses (more than one
Year) Rs. 2,000 per year ;
(ii) Part-time/Evening one year and Short Term Courses less
than one year Rs. 1,500 per course.
07. Attention of all Candidates is invited to the Schedule of
Courses appended at the end of this notification, which indicates the
nature of courses, eligibility requirements for each course, the colleges
where the courses are conducted and medium of instruction. The
addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges where the
courses are available are shown in the List of Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges.
08. A candidate seeking admission to follow a course in these
colleges should :–
(i) be of excellent moral character ;
(ii) be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(iii) have fulfilled all the eligibility requirements for admission
at the time of forwarding the application.
09. Suitable candidates will be selected on the results of an aptitude
test and/or an interview.
10. Any documents or copies thereof, should not be submitted
along with the application. Those candidates who fail to produce the
necessary and acceptable documents to prove their eligibility at the
interview will be deemed disqualified.
11. Subject to a maximum of Rs. 1,000  a month a stipend of
Rs. 50 per day for attendance to classes will be paid to those who
follow any full time course depending on parental income.
About 1,200 Full Time Day Course students from low income
families are paid a bursary of Rs. 2,500  per year.
12. The candidate is held entirely responsible for the authenticity
of his/her documents. Candidates who submit documents that have
been tampered with or forged or not proved in fact will be severely
dealt with.
13. To conduct all courses or Several Courses in this Gazette
notification for the Academic Year 2013, in Colleges of Technology/
Technical Colleges are subject to discretion of the Director General
of Department of Technical Education and Training.
Candidates can apply for more than one course using
separate application forms.
Dr. H. C
HITHRAL AMBAW ATTE,
Director General,
Department of Technical Education and Training.
P. O. Box 557,
Olcott Mawatha,
Colombo 10,
www.dtet.gov.lk
List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges
Serial Technical College/College of Technology Address District
No.
01. Sri Lanka  College of Technology Olcott Mawatha, Colombo 10 Colombo
02. Galle College of Technology Kaluwella, Galle Galle
03. Kandy College of Technology Aruppola, Kandy Kandy
04. Jaffna College of T echnology Browns Road, Jaffna Jaffna
05. Badulla College of Technology Greenlane Drive, Badulla Badulla
06. Anuradhapura College of Technology New Town, Anuradhapura Anuradhapura
07. Kurunegala College of T echnology Puttalam Road, Kurunegala Kurunegala
08. Ampara Hardy College of Technology Inginiyagala Road, Ampara Ampara
09. Ratnapura College of Technology Palm Gardens, Colombo Road, Ratnapura Ratnapura
10. Kegalle Technical College Kachcheri Road, Kegalle Kegalle
11. Ratmalana Technical College Galle Road, Ratmalana Colombo
12. Matara Technical College Meddewatta, Matara Matara
13. Sammanthurai Technical College Ampara Road, Sammanthurai Ampara
14. Kalutara Technical College Kalamulla, Kalutara, Kalutara
15. Warakapola Technical College Ambagala Road, Warakapola Kegalle
16. Kuliyapitiya Technical College Pannala Road, Kuliyapitiya Kurunegala
17. Pathadumbara Technical College Navayalatenna, Katugastota Kandy
18. Nuwara-Eliya Technical College Jayathilaka Mawatha, Nuwara - Eliya, Nuwara-Eliya

<!-- page 7 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2157
19. Homagama Technical College Godagama, Homagama, Colombo
20. Beliatta Technical College Puwakdandawa, Beliatta Hambantota
21. Hasalaka Technical College Yodha Ela Road, Hasalaka Kandy
22. Dambulla Technical College Matale Road, Dambulla Matale
23. Balapitiya Technical College Station Road, Wandaduwa, Balapitiya Galle
24. Wariyapola T echnical College Chilaw Road, Wariyapola Kurunegala
25. Batticaloa Technical College Manchantuduwai, Batticaloa Batticaloa
26. Bandarawela Technical College W ewathenna, Bandarawela, Badulla
27. Monaragala Technical College Sirigala, Monaragala Monaragala
28. Gampaha Technical College Werellawatta, Yakkala Gampaha
29. Trincomalee T echnical College Mihindupura, Trincomalee Trincomalee
30. Dehiattakandiya Technical College Mahawanawela, Dehiattakandiya Ampara
31. Matale Technical College M. C. Road, Matale Matale
32. Weerawila Technical College New Town, Weerawila Hambantota
33. Medagama Technical College Medagama, (via Bibile) Monaragala
34. Polonnaruwa  Technical College V idyapura, Polonnaruwa Polonnaruwa
35. Embilipitiya T echnical College New Town, Embilipitiya Ratnapura
36. Vavuniya Technical College Mannar Road, Vavuniya V avuniya
37. Akkaraipattu Technical College * Please see the note below Ampara
38. Anamaduwa Technical College Gamuda Bhumiya, Thammennagama, Anamaduwa Puttalam
* Applicants, who apply for the Technical College Akkaraipattu should sent their application to “the Principal, Technical College
Sammanthurai, Ampara Road, Sammanthurai.”
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
APPLICATION FOR ADMISSION TO COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES ACADEMIC YEAR – 2013
For Official use only
(Applications must be directed to the Director/Principal of the relevant College of Technology/Technical
College. Addresses of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges are given in the List of Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleges)
(Each Course applied for should be in a separate application)
01. Name of the College of Technology/Technical College :——––—.
02. Name of the Course applied :—––——.   (Full Time Day/ Evening/Part Time)
Medium :——––—. Code No. :——––—.
03. Applicant’s Name with Initials :——––—.
04. Names indicated by Initials :——––—.
05. Permanent Address :——––—.
06. Contact No. :——––—. E-mail :——––—.
07. National Identity Card No. :—––——.
08. District :—––——. Electorate :—––——.
Gramaniladari Division :—––——.
09. Date of Birth :  Year :——––—,  Month :—––——, Date :—––——.
Age as at 01.01.2013 : Years :—––——,  Months :—––——, Days :——––—.
Serial Technical College/College of Technology Address District
No.

<!-- page 8 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2158
10. Male/Female :———.
11. Educational Qualifications :
(A) G. C. E. (O/L) Results (Not more than two attempts)
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(B) G . C. E. (A/L) Results (In one attempt) :–
Index No. Year Subjects Grade
(C) Number of G . C. E. (A/L) sittings :—––——.
(D) Highest grade/year passed if the applicant has not obtained the qualifications mentioned in (A) above :-
 Grade :——––—,       Year :—––——.
12. Only for Evening and Part Time Courses :
To be filled only for courses for which employment is a requirement
12.1 Applicant’s Name :——––—.
12.2 Post held at present and the Date of Appointment to the Post :—––——.
If self employed, the type of employment
12.3 Work place and its address :——––—.
12.4 Employee Provided Fund No. :——––—.
Employee Trust Fund No. :——––—.
I certify that the above applicant is an employee in this Institute/Office,
12.5 Name of the Employer :—––——.
12.6 Designation :—––——.
12.7 Signature  :—––——. Official Seal :—––——.
12.8  Date :——––—.
13. Applicant’s Declaration :
I hereby certify that the information given in this application is true to my knowledge , and I have obtained the qualifications required
for the course applied for. Further I agree with the scheme of selection of students to Colleges of Technology/Technical Colleg es and to
accept the decision of the Director General of the Department of Technical Education and Training as final.
––––––––––––––,
Applicant’s Signature.
Date :——––—.
Stamp to the value of Rs. 10 should be affixed here and cancelled by signing on it.

<!-- page 9 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2159
SCHEDULE OF COURSES CONDUCTED IN COLLEGES OF TECHNOLOGY/TECHNICAL COLLEGES  –  2013
Engineering Technician Studies Courses :
Full Time Courses
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium
01 ETB 03 National Diploma in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Agriculture including Agriculture, with four Credit passes Dambulla,
in one sitting. The four credit passes should be Kuliyapitiya
for the following subjects:
Full Time Day First Language, Mathematics, Science and Social
Two Years Studies or any of the following subjects :–
Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry,
Food Science and Food Technology, Fresh
Water (inland) Bio Resource Technology,
Oceanic (Marine) Bio Resource Technology ;
or
Should possess at least Three Ordinary passes
 in one sitting at the G . C. E. (A/L) Examination.
The subjects should be any three of the following :
Biology, Zoology, Botany, Chemistry, Physics,
Agriculture
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2013.
02 ETC 01 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Civil Engineering) passes including  Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Language and English Language. At least five (5)
Full Time Day subjects should be passed in one sitting  ;
Two Years or
Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft  Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2013.
03 ETC 02 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Electrical & Electronic passes  including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Engineering) Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).

<!-- page 10 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2160
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2013.
04 ETC 03 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in English Medium
Industrial Technicians not more than two sittings with four Credit Kandy,
(Mechanical passes including Science, Mathematics, Medium Ratmalana
Engineering) Language and English Language. At least five (5)
subjects  should be passed in one sitting ;
Full Time Day or
Two Years Merit pass in any National Certificate in
Engineering  Craft Practice 2 year course ;
or
Pass in any National Certificate in Engineering
Craft Practice Course with Credit passes in
Science and Mathematics at G . C. E. (O/L).
Candidates will be selected by an aptitude test.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
on 01.01.2013
05 ETC 05 National Certificate 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
in Engineering in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Draughtsmanship Anamaduwa,
The six (6) subjects should be - Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Badulla,
One Year ( a) Sinhala/Tamil/English ; Bal apitiya,
(b) Mathematics and Science ; Bandarawela,
(c) Three other Subjects Beliatta,
Dambulla,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Dehiattakandiya,
on 01.01.2013. Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka,
Homagama,
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matale,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Embilipitiya,
Trincomalee,
Matara, Wareyapola
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 11 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2161
06 ETC 07 National Certificate in 1. Passes in four (4) subjects at the G . C. E. (O/L) Sinhala Medium
Jewellery Manufacture Examination in one sitting ; Beliatta,
or Maradana
Full Time Day One Year should have passed year 09 and experience in
the relevant field.
* Course with National
V ocational 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
Qualification-NVQ on 01.01.2013
07 ECC 40 Certificate in Landscaping 1. Should have passed G . C. E. (O/L) Examination ;
Sinhala Medium
for Junior Supervisors or Ampara,
Have passed the National Certificate in Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day Landscaping  Technology Craft Level III Course Beliatta, Galle,
One Year conducted in any of the V ocational Training Kegalle, Matale,
Centers attached to VTA. Ratmalana,
Matara
2. Age should be between 18 and 35 years as
on 01.01.2013.
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu
08 ETC 04 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects English Medium
Technology (Quantity with four (04) Credit passes including Science, Anuradhapura,
Surveying) Mat hematics and Medium Language in one sitting. Badulla, Balapitiya,
Should have at least an Ordinary Pass for English Beliatta, Galle,
Language. Gampaha, Jaffna,
Full Time Day Kandy, Kegalle,
One Year Preference will be given to the candidates those Kurunegala,
who have followed Pure Maths/Applied Maths or Batticaloa,
Combined Maths and/or a Hard Technology subject Maradana, Matara,
in G . C. E.  (A/L) Examination Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Sammanthurai,
on 01.01.2013. Warakapola,
Kalutara, Ampara,
Wariyapola
PART TIME COURSES
09 ETC  01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in Sinhala Medium
Technology (Civil not more than  two sittings. Ampara,
Engineering) Six (6) subjects should be – Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language ; Badulla, Balapitiya,
(b) Mathematics and Science ; Beliatta,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications. Dambulla,
Part Time Embilipitiya,
Three years 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Galle, Gampaha,
on 01.01.2013 Hasalaka,
(Restricted to those Homagama,
employed in the Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Kegalle, Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
* Course with National Moneragala,
V ocational Qualification Nuwera-Eliya,
– NVQ Level 5 Matale,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 12 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2162
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Weerawila,
Trincomalee,
Anamaduwa,
Bandarawela,
Kuliyapitiya.
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
10. ETC 02.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Technology (Electrical in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
and Electronic Engineering) Six  (6) subjects should be :- Anuradhapura,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Badulla,
Part time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science, Balapitiya,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualification Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those or Homagama,
employed in the Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Kegalle,
Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Electrician Kurunegala,
course or Radio, TV and Electronics course Maradana,
conducted at Technical Colleges under the Matara,
Department of Technical Education and Training. Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
2. Age should not be less than  17 years as Warakapola,
on 01.01.2013 Trincomalee,
Monaragala
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Akkaraipattu
11. ETC 03.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects in
Sinhala Medium
Technology (Mechanical not more th an two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Engineering) Six (06) subjects should be :- Galle, Kandy,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Kegalle, Kurunegala,
Part Time Three Years ( b) Mathematics and Science, Maradana, Matara,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent qualifications Ratmalana,
(Restricted to those or Warakapola,
employed in the Have passed the National Certificate in Engineering Kalutara,
relevant field.) Craft Practice Full time Day 2 year-Motor Vehicle Monaragala,
Mechanic/General Machinist/Fitter Machinist
course conducted at Technical Colleges under the
Tamil Medium
Department of Technical Education and Training. Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
on 01.01.2013
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 13 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2163
12. ETC 04.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Technology (Quantity in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Surveying) Six (06) subjects should be :- Badulla,
(a) Sinhala/Tamil/English Language Balapitiya
Part Time Three Years (b) Mathematics and Science Beliatta,
(c) Three other Subjects ; or equivalent Galle, Gampaha,
(Restricted to those qualifications Homagama,
employed in the 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as Kalutara, Kandy,
relevant field.) on 01.01.2013 Kegalle,
Kurunegala,
Maradana,
Matara,
Monaragala,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola,
Weerawila, Matale
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya,
Akkaraipattu
English Medium
Maradana
Engineering Craft Studies Courses
F
ULL TIME COURSES
01. ECC  08 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Practice-Electronics Language in not more than two sittings Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta,
Two Years 01.01.2013. Galle, Gampaha,
Hasalaka, Kalutara,
* Course with K andy, Kegalle,
National Kurunegala,
V ocational Maradana,
Qualification- Matara
NVQ Nuwara-Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Rathmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola,
Ambilipitiya,
Trincomalee, Ampara
Tamil Medium
Maradana, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
V avuniya
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 14 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2164
02. ECC 10 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Anuradhapura,
Practice-Fitter Language in not more than two sittings Beliatta,
Machinist Embilipitiya, Galle,
Hasalaka, Kandy,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kegalle,
Two Years 01.01.2013. Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
* Course with Kalutara, Matara,
National V ocational Polonnaruwa,
Qualification- Warakapola,
NVQ Nuwara-Eliya,
Badulla,
Rathmalana,
Ampara,
Maradana
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
03. ECC 13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics and Medium Language Ampara,
Practice-Industrial in not more than two sittings ; Anuradhapura,
Electrician or Embilipitiya,
Have passed the House Wiring Course Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Full Time Day Conducted in any V ocational Training Centers Homagama,
Two Years attached to VTA, Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Nuwara-Eliya,
01.01.2013. Polonnaurwa
* Course with Ratmalana,
National Trincomalee,
V ocational Pathadumbara,
Qualification- W eerawila, Matale,
NVQ Monaragala, Kandy,
Kurunegala,
Kalutara, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta,
Rathnapura, Kegalle,
Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Warakapola,
Dambulla
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya
04. ECC 18 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in Ampara,
Practice-Motor not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Vehicle Mechanic Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Beliatta,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 15 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2165
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2013. Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
Homagama
Kalutara, Kandy,
Kegalle,
* Course with Kuliyapitiya,
National V ocational Kurunegala
Qualification - NVQ Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Warakapola, Matale,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee
05 ECC 02 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara
Practice- Gas and Arc Have passed the Welder Course conducted in Anamaduwa,
Welder any of the V ocational Training Centres attached Anuradhapura,
to VTA Badulla, Balapitiya
Full Time Day Bandarawela,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla
01.01.2013. Dehiattakandiya,
Embilipitiya, Galle,
Gampaha, Hasalaka,
* Course with Homagama,
National Vocational Kalutara,
Qualification - NVQ Kandy,  Kegalle,
Kuliyapitiya,
Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
Moneragala,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratmalana,
Ratnapura,
Trincomalee,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Pathadumbara,
Nuwara-Eliya
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, V avuniya
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 16 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2166
06. ECC 09 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Ampara,
Practice- Plumber Have passed the Plumbing Course conducted Anuradhapura,
in any of the V ocational Training Centres Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day attached to VTA Embilipitiya,
One Year Hasalaka,
2. Age should be between 17and 25 years as on Homagama,
* Course with 01.01.2013. Maradana,
National Vocational Nuwara-Eliya,
Qualification - NVQ Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Monaragala, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Galle, Badulla,
Kuliyapitiya,
Dambulla,
Kurunagala
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Trincomalee, Jaffna
07. ECC 05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft with passes in Mathematics, Science and Anuradhapura,
Practice-Refrigeration Medium Language in not more than two sittings. Bandarawela,
and Air Conditioning Beliatta,
Mechanic 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Embilipitiya, Galle,
on 01.01.2013. Gampaha,
Homagama,
Full Time Day Kalutara, Kandy,
One Year Kegalle, Matara,
Polonnaruwa,
* Course with Ratnapura,
National V ocational Maradana, Hasalaka
Qualification - NVQ Kuliyapitiya,
Rathmalana
Tamil Medium
Vavuniya,
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Akkaraipattu
08. ECC 06 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 :
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice-Wood Machinist have passed the Carpenter Course conducted in any Dehiattakandiya,
of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA. Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day Hasalaka,
One Year Homagama,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Kuliyapitiya,
* Course with on 01.01.2013. Polonnaruwa,
National V ocational Ratnapura,
Qualification - NVQ Wariyapola,
Anamaduwa,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 17 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2167
Maradana,
Dambulla,
Bandarawela, Galle,
Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Badulla, Monaragala,
Ampara
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Akkaraipattu
09. ECC 14 National Certificate in 1. Should have completed year 10 ;
Sinhala Medium
Engineering Craft or Anuradhapura,
Practice - Construction have passed the Masonry Course conducted in any Dehiattakandiya,
Craftsman of the V ocational Training Centres attached to VTA Embilipitiya,
Wariyapola,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be b etween 17 and 25 years Ratnapura,
One Year as on 01.01.2013. Polonnaruwa,
Kuliyapitiya,
* Course with Rathmalana,
National V ocational Homagama, Galle,
Qualification - NVQ Balapitiya, Matara,
Beliatta, Kegalle,
Badulla,
Monaragala,
Dambulla, Maradana,
Matale, Hasalaka,
Kurunegala
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa,
Sammanthurai,
Jaffna
10. ECS 21 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Aluminium Fabrication Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Gampaha,
Full Time Day on 01.01.2013. Homagama, Kandy,
Six Months Kurunegala,
Maradana, Matara,
* Course with Matale, Ratmalana,
National V ocational Warakapola,
Qualification - NVQ Balapitiya, Beliatta,
Ampara
11. ECC 22 Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects in
Sinhala Medium
Electrical Trade not more than two sittings. Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Ratnapura,
One Year 01.01.2013. Wariyapola.
Hasalaka
*Course with
National V ocational
Tamil Medium
Qualification - NVQ Sammanthurai
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 18 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2168
12. ECS 26 Certificate in Motor 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Cycle and Scooter Anuradhapura,
Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Rathmalana,
on 01.01.2013. Beliatta,
Full Time Day Dehiattakandiya,
One Year Kegalle,
Kurunegala, Matale,
* Course with Pathadumbara,
National V ocational Badulla
Qualification - NVQ
Tamil Medium
Jaffna, Batticaloa,
Vavuniya
13. MCC 08 Certificate in Footwear 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Making Ampara,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Embilipitiya,
Full Time Day 01.01.2013. Medagama
One Year
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - NVQ
14. ECC 21 Certificate in House 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Hold Electrical Anuradhapura,
Appliances Repairing 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Pathadumbara,
01.01.2013. Trincomalee,
Full Time Day Dehiattakandiya
Six Months Ratnapura
* Course with
National V ocational Tamil Medium
Qualification - NVQ Trincomalee,
Akkaraipattu
15. ECC 26 Certificate in Machining 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Anuradhapura,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Bandarawela,
One Year 01.01.2013. Gampaha,
Embilipitiya,
* Course with Homagama, Kandy
National V ocational Kalutara, Maradana,
Qualification - NVQ Ratmalana,
Rathnapura,
Dambulla,
Warakapola,
Dehiattakandiya
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu
Jaffna
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 19 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2169
16 ECC20 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10. Sinhala Medium
Automobile Painting Kurunegala,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Dehiattakandiya
Full Time Day 01.01.2013.
Six Months
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - NVQ
17 ECC17 Certificate in 1. Should have passed Year 10.
Sinhala Medium
Automobile Tinkering Kurunegala,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Dehiattakandiya
Full Time Day 01.01.2013.
Six Months
* Course with
National V ocational
Qualification - NVQ
18 ECS36 Certificate in Farm 1. Should have passed Year 09.
Sinhala Medium
Machinery Anuradhapura,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on W eerawila
Full Time Day 01.01.2013. Dehiattakandiya
Six Months
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification
- NVQ
19 ECC19 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Building Construction passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Balapitiya,
Technology - Craft more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Practice (Multi Skill) Kalutara, Beliatta,
Kegalle,
Moneragala, Kandy,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kurunegala, Galle,
One Year 01.01.2013. Matara, Weerawila,
Hasalaka, Gampaha
Tamil Medium
Jaffna
20 ECC 16 Certificate in Fruits and 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Vegetable Processor with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Kandy
Language and English in not more than two sittings.
Full Time Day Should have a credit pass in Science.
Six months
* Course with National 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
V ocational Qualification – 01.01.2013.
NVQ
P
ART TIME COURSES
21 ECC 33.1 Certificate in Tractor 1. Should have passed Year 09. Sinhala Medium
Mechanic Dehiattakandiya,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
Part Time One Year 01.01.2013.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 20 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2170
Business Studies Courses
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium
FULL TIME COURSES
01 BSC 03 Diploma in Accounting 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
with passes in Mathematics and G . C. E (A/L) Maradana, Galle,
Full Time Day Examination in Two (2) subjects with passes in Kandy, Ampara,
Two Years one (1) of Ratnapura
(i) Accounting
(ii) Combined Maths
(iii) Business Studies
(iv) Economics
(v) Business Statistic
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2013
02 BSC 04 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects with
Sinhala Medium
Accounting passes in Mathematics and Medium Language Anuradhapura,
Technicians in one  sitting. Badulla,
Balapitiya,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Beliatta, Dambulla,
Two Years 01.01.2013. Galle, Hasalaka,
Homagama,
Students who succesfully Kalutara, Kandy,
complete this course are Kegalle, Kuliyapitiya,
eligible to follow the Kurunegala,
following courses, conducted Maradana, Matale,
by the Sri Lanka Institute Matara,
of Advanced Technical Nuwara Eliya,
Education :– Polonnaruwa,
* Higher National Diploma Ratnapura, Ampara,
in Accountancy. Warakapola,
* Higher National Diploma Gampaha,
 in Management. Trincomalee
* National Diploma in
Business Studies.
* National Diploma in
Tamil Medium
Business & Finance. Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya, Maradana,
Akkaraipattu
03 BSC 06 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with
English Medium
Secretarial Practice (English) passes in Mathematics and Medium Language in not Badulla,
more than two sittings. Should have a Credit pass Balapitiya,
Full Time Day in English. Batticaloa,
One Year (i) Competency in spoken & written English will be Kalutara, Kandy,
considered. Kuliyapitiya,
Students who (ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test if so Kurunegala,
successfully complete this decided by the authorities. Maradana,
course are eligible to follow (iii) Female candidates are preferred. Warakapola, Jaffna,
the National Diploma in Homagama,
Secretarial Practice Course, 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Gampaha, Galle,
conducted  by the Sri Lanka 01.01.2013. Matara, Beliatta,
Institute of Advanced Kegalle, Matale,
Technical  Education Anuradhapura,
Monaragala,
Akkaraipattu

<!-- page 21 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2171
04 BSC13 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting with passes in Mathematics and Medium Ampara,
and Computing-Sinhala Language in not more than two sittings. Anuradhapura,
Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala. Beliatta, Dambulla
Dehiattakandiya,
Full Time Day Galle, Kalutara,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Kandy,
01.01.2013. Kuliyapitiya,
Maradana,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Pathadumbara,
Trincomalee,
Kegalle, Warakapola,
Matara
05 BSC14 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, Typewriting in not more than two sittings with passes in Batticaloa,
and Computing-Tamil Medium Language and Mathematics ; Maradana,
Should have a Credit pass for Tamil Language. Sammanthurai,
Full Time Day Trincomalee,
One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Vavuniya, Jaffna,
01.01.2013. Akkaraipattu
06 BSC05 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects English Medium
Marketing in not more than two sittings with passes in Baticaloa, Galle,
Mathematics, Medium Language and English Jaffna, Kandy,
Full Time Day Language. Ma radana, Matale,
One Year Matara,
Kuliyapitiya,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Sammanthurai,
01.01.2013. Trincomalee,
Kegalle, Warakapola,
Dambulla,
Dehiattakandiya,
Akkaraipattu
P
ART TIME COURSES
07 BSC 04.1 National Certificate for 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination is Six (06) Subjects Sinhala Medium
Accounting in not more than two sittings with a pass for Ampara,
Technicians Mathematics and Medium Language. Moneragala,
Warakapola,
Part Time - Two Years 2. Age should not be less than 18 years as Trincomalee,
(Restricted to on 01.01.2013. Kegalle, Kandy
employees in an office
of a recognized firm,
Tamil Medium
Government Trincomalee,
Department / V avuniya,
Corporation or Local Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Authority or any other Akkaraipattu
recognized Institute.)
08 BSC 13.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Shorthand, with passes in Mathematics and Medium W arakapola
Typewriting and Language in not more than two sittings.
Computing - Sinhala Should have a Credit pass in Sinhala
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 22 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2172
Part Time - One Year
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2013.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
09 BSC 14.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Tamil Medium
Shorthand, in not more than two sittings with passes Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Typewriting and in Medium Language and Mathematics. Should Vavuniya,
Computing - Tamil have a Credit Pass for Tamil Language. Akkaraipattu
Part Time - One Year
(Restricted to those 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as
who are engaged in on 01.01.2013.
Stenography/Typing or
in an allied field)
General Studies Courses
Full Time Courses
01 ESC 01 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
English Medium
English for Commerce, including English in not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Industry and Further Anamaduwa,
Education 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Anuradhapura,
01.01.2013 Badulla, Balapitiya,
Full Time - Day Bandarawela,
One Year Batticaloa, Beliatta,
Dambulla,
Students who Dehiattakandiya,
successfully complete this Embilipitiya, Galle,
course are eligible to follow Gampaha, Hasalaka,
the National Diploma in Homagama,
English Course, conducted Kalutara, Kandy,
by the Sri Lanka Institute Kegalle,
of Advanced Technical Kuliyapitiya,
Education Kurunegala,
Maradana
Matale, Matara,
Medagama,
Moneragala,
Nuwara Eliya,
Pathadumbara,
Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Ratmalana, Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 23 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2173
02 MCC 09 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Japanese Medium
Japanese Language in not more than two sittings Galle
Full Time - Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as
One Year on 01.01.2013.
03 MCC 07 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Korean Medium
Korean Language in not more than two sittings Galle, Kegalle
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Beliatta,
Full Time - Day  on 01.01.2013. Warakapola, Kandy,
One Year Kuliyapitiya,
Moneragala,
Ampara,
Anuradhapura
04 ECC23 Certificate for Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) Subjects
Sinhala Medium
Application Assistants with passes in Mathematics, Medium Balapitiya,
Language and English Language in not more than Embilipitiya,
Full Time two sittings. Gampaha,
Three Months W eerawila,
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as Maradana,
* Course with National on 01.01.2013. Medagama,
V ocational Qualification Hasalaka,
NVQ Wariyapola,
Anuradhapura,
Polonnaruwa,
Anamaduwa,
Dehiattakandiya,
Moneragala, Galle
Tamil Medium
Akkaraipattu
05 ECC 03 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects Sinhala Medium
Hardware with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Galle,
Language and English Language in not more than Kuliyapitiya
two sittings. Maradana,
Full Time Day Moneragala, Kandy
Six Months 2. Should have completed Basic Computer Science
Course
Tamil Medium
* Course with National V avuniya,
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Akkaraipattu
NVQ 01.01.2013
06 ECC 04 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Networking with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Galle, Kandy
Language and English Language in not more than
two sittings
Full Time  Day
Tamil Medium
Six Months 2. Shou ld have completed Basic Computer Science Jaffna,
Course Akkaraipattu
* Course with National
V ocational Qualification - 3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
NVQ 01.01.2013.
07 ECC 31 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
Graphic Designing with passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Maradana,
Language and English Language in not more Wariyapola
than two sittings.
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 24 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2174
Full Time Day 2. Should have completed basic Computer
Six Months Science Course
3. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2013
Part Time Courses
08 ECC 23.1 Certificate for Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Application Assistants passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Gampaha,
English Language in not more than two sittings Embilipitiya,
Part Time 360 hours Balapitiya,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Warakapola,
* Course with National 01.01.2013 Dehiattakandiya,
V ocational Qualification - Kalutara,
NVQ Trincomalee,
Weerawila,
Ratnapura
Tamil Medium
Trincomalee
09 ESC 01.1 National Certificate in 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (06) Subjects in English Medium
English for Commerce, not more than two sittings. Ampara,
Industry and Further Anuradhapura,
Education (Special consideration will be given to those Badulla, Batticaloa,
employed in a supervisory capacity in an Industrial, Beliatta, Dambulla,
Commercial or any similar establishment or those Dehiattakandiya,
Part Time - Two Years who were employed in a similar capacity at an earlier Embilipitiya, Galle,
date and those who may qualify for promotion after Gampaha, Kalutara,
successful completion of the Course) Kandy , Kegalle,
A basic knowledge of English is essential. Kuliyapitiya,
Matale, Matara,
2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on Moneragala,
01.01.2013. Polonnaruwa,
Ratnapura,
Sammanthurai,
Trincomalee,
Vavuniya,
Warakapola,
Wariyapola,
Weerawila,
Jaffna,
Akkaraipattu
10 ECC 03.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Hardware passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle,
and English Language in not more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Part Time 720 hours 2. Should have completed basic Computer Science Course Dehiattakandiya
3. Age should not be less than 17 years as
* Course with National on 01.01.2013.
V ocational Qualification -
NVQ
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field)
11 ECC 04.1 Certificate in Computer 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Networking passes in Mathematics, Science, Medium Language Galle,
and English Language in not more than two sittings Warakapola,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 25 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2175
Part Time 720 hours 2. Should have completed basic Computer
Science Course.
* Course with National 3. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
V ocational Qualification - 01.01.2013.
NVQ
(Restricted to those employed
in the relevant field)
Special Courses :
Full Time Courses
01.  BSC 16 Receptionist 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
English Medium
with passes in Mathematics and Medium. Galle,
Full Time Day Language  in not more than two sittings. Should Matara,
One Year have a Credit pass in English. Anuradhapura
(i) Competency in Spoken and Written
* Course with National English will be considered.
V ocational Qualification (ii) Candidates will have to sit a written test
- NVQ if so decided by the authorities.
(iii) Female candidates are preferred.
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on
01.01.2013.
02. ECC 12 Information 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Communication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Kegalle, Warakapola,
Technology Technician English Language in not more than two sittings. Badulla,
Bandarawela,
Full Time Day 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Moneragala, Kandy,
Six Months 01.01.2013. Pathadumbara,
Matale, Hasalaka,
* Course with National Beliatta, Rathnapura,
V ocational Qualification Kurunagala, Ampara,
- NVQ Dambulla,
Nuwara-Eliya,
Matara, Maradana,
Kalutara, Galle,
Kuliyapitiya
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
V avuniya
03. ECC 07 Steward 1. G . C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects
Sinhala Medium
with passes in Mathematics, Science and Medium Anuradhapura
Full Time Day Language in not more than two sittings.
Three Months Tamil Medium
2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Trincomalee,
01.01.2013
04. ECC 01 Construction site 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects Sinhala Medium
Supervisor with passes in Mathematics, Science and Galle, Maradana,
Medium Language  in not more than two sittings. Rathmalana,
Full Time Day -One Year 2. Age should be between 17 and 25 years as on Homagama, Kalutara,
01.01.2013 Balapitiya, Matara,
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is Available  and Medium

<!-- page 26 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2176
* Course with National Beliatta, Rathnapura,
V ocational Qualification - Embiliptiya,
NVQ Warakapola,
Monaragala, Kandy,
Anuradhapura,
Polonnaruwa,
Kurunegala,
Kuliyapitiya,
Dehiattakandiya,
Wariyapola,
Dambulla,
Trincomalee
Tamil Medium
Batticaloa, Jaffna,
Trincomalee,
Akkaraipattu
P
ART TIME COURSES
05. ECC 12.1 Information 1. G. C. E. (O/L) Examination in Six (6) subjects with Sinhala Medium
Communication passes in Mathematics, Medium Language and Galle, Kegalle,
Technology Technician English Language in not more than two sittings. Warakapola,
Kurunegala
Part Time 720 hours 2. Age should not be less than 17 years as on
01.01.2013.
* Course with National Tamil Medium
V ocational Qualification - Vavuniya
NVQ
(Restricted to those
employed in the relevant
field.)
10–960
––––––––––––––––––––
Serial Code No. Name of Course Admission Qualifications Colleges where the Course
No. is available  and Medium
DEPARTMENT  OF  ANIMAL  PRODUCTION  AND  HEALTH
Efficiency Bar Examination I and II for the Officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock
Development Officers' Service – 2009/2010(2012)
IT is hereby informed that the Efficiency Bar Examination for the officers in the above service is expected to be held in Colombo in February,
2013. Accordingly applications are being called from the officers in service as at 01st October, 2012 in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development
Officers' Service in the Department of Animal Production and Health.
02. The time tables will be prepared enabling the officers to sit for the two Efficiency Bar Examinations at the same time.
03. Syllabus.– The syllabus and the other provisions which govern the Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II are stipulated in the
service minute. The syllabus for the Efficiency Bar Examination I and II for the officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Service are
stated in Annexure 'A' and 'B' respectively. A candidate is allowed to sit for the subjects of the Efficiency Bar Examination in one or several
attempts.
04. Followings are the subjects for which the officers should sit in the said Efficiency Bar Examination.

<!-- page 27 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2177
Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers Service :
E. B. Examination I E. B. Examination II
Subject Subject Duration Subject Subject Duration
No. (hours) No. (hours)
01 Office Administration and 02 03 Office Administration and 02
Establishment Code Establishment Code
02 Financial Regulations 02 04 Financial Regulations 02
(Note.– Candidates should score a minimum of 40% or more for each paper to pass the Efficiency Bar Examination I and II).
05. The attention of the officers who wish to sit for the Efficiency Bar Examination is drawn to the Section 5 of Treasury Circular
No. 701, dated 04th September, 1966 stated below :-
The medium of the departmental examinations (including the promotional and Efficiency Bar Examinations) should be the medium
or the Official Language in which the applicant sat for the admission test to enter the Public Service. But the medium for promotional or
Efficiency Bar Examinations for those who have joined the service without a competitive examination should be the language or National
Language which the officer became eligible to gain entry to the service.
06. The Commissioner General of Examinations will make provisions enabling the candidates to answer the above papers in
Sinhala, Tamil or English, but permission will not be given to change the medium later.
07. If it is revealed even later that a candidate has appeared for the examination in a medium he is not entitled to, his/her candidature
will be cancelled.
08. Application should be prepared using both sides of an A4 paper according to the specimen application appended. Cages 01-
08 should appear on page 01 and the balance on the page 02. The application should be completed by the candidate in his/her handwriting
and the applications which are incomplete or not prepared according to the specimen form will be rejected without notice. Possession of a
photocopy of the duly completed application form with the applicant will be useful. The applicant should ensure that the comple ted
application form is in compliance with the specimen application form and non compliant applications will be rejected. It is nec essary to
write the name of the examination on the top of the specimen application in English too in the applications prepared in Sinhala and Tamil.
The candidates who wish to sit for both Efficiency Bar Examinations I and II should send separate applications for each
examination.
09. The examinations will be held by the Commissioner General of Examinations and all candidates are bound to abide by the rules
and regulation enacted by him. The rules and regulations have been given at the end of this notice. Candidates are subjected to such rules and
regulations stipulated by the Commissioner General of Examinations and if violated, the candidate should have to face penalty imposed by
the Commissioenr General of Examinations.
10. Application should be sent through the Head of the Institution by registered post to reach the Director General, Department
of Animal Production and Health, on or before 19.11.2012. Applications received after this date will be rejected.
11. A notification will be published by the Department of Examinations in the Newspapers immediately after admission cards are
issued to the candidates and any candidate who did not receive the admission cards even 2 or 3 days subsequent to the Newspaper
advertisement should inform the Department of Examinations as instructed in the notice. It is advisable to inform the Departmen t of
Examinations by having following the items stand by : the certified photostat copy of the receipt of payments, application form s, receipt
of registration and if you stay outside Colombo your letter of request giving fax number enabling to send the admission card.
12. The candidates who are unable to comply with requirements stated in the above paragraph 11 and produce documents later
will not be considered.
13. Attention of all the candidates will be drawn to the Circular No. SE 274 dated 29th June, 1971, issued by the Commissioner
General of Examinations with regard to the submission of Identity Cards. It is the responsibility of the candidate to prove thi s identity at
the examination hall. Only an Identity Card issued by the Department of Registration of Persons or a valid passport, will be accepted
in proof of identity of the applicant to the supervisor of the examination held by the Department of Examinations Sri Lanka. The signature
of the candidate in the admission card should be attested and produced to the Supervisor at the commencement of the examination.

<!-- page 28 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2178
14. It has been decided to levy the examination fees from the candidates on the following basis :
(a) No fee has will be levied for the whole examination or part of it at the first attempt.
(b) Thereafter for each attempt :
Rs. cts.
For whole examination 400 0
Each subject 100 0
This fee should be debited to Revenue Head 2003.02.13 of the Commissioner General of Examinations at any District/Divisional
Secretariat and the receipt drawn in applicant's name should be affixed in the relevant place.
The candidates who have already sat for the examination are advised to pay the relevant fees stated above.
K. M. T. K
ENDARAGAMA,
Secretary,
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development.
Ministry of Livestock and Rural Community Development,
No. 45,
St. Michales Road, Colombo 03,
05th October, 2012.
SPECIMEN  APPLICATION  FORM
D
EPARTMENT OF EXAMINATIONS – SRI LANKA
FIRST AND SECOND EFFICIENCY BAR EXAMINATION FOR OFFICERS OF THE SRI LANKA LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT OFFICERS' SERVICE 2009/2010(2012)
(The top left hand corner of the envelope should bear the name of the examination)
01. Medium of Language of the examination of the officer sit in Sinhala - 2
Tamil - 3
English - 4
(State the relevant number in the cage)
02. Name of the Examination of the officer applied for :
1st Efficiency Bar Examination - 1
2nd Efficiency Bar Examination - 2
(State the relevant number in the cage)
03. ( a) Last name with initials (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
Ex : FERNANDO B. A.
(b) Name denoted by initials (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
04. Postal address (for dispatch of admission card) (in block capitals) :–––––––––.
05. NIC No. :
06. Subjects offered (should be stated clearly) with the subject numbers as indicated in the fourth paragraph of the notification:
(i) Subject No. Subject ....................
(ii) Subject No. Subject ....................
07. Date of Birth :
Year : Month : Date :
08. Designation :–––––––––.
Name of Department :–––––––––.

<!-- page 29 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2179
09. Date of appointment to the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service :–––––––––.
10. State whether you have sat for the examination previously in whole or in part. If so state subjects, year and month :––––––– ––.
Applicant's declaration :
I declare that the above particulars are correct and that I am entitled to sit for the examination in the language medium indicated
above.
Further I also agree to be bound by the rules and regulations enacted with regard to conducting of the said examination and the
examination results which would be issued by the Commissioner General of Examinations.
––––––––––––,
Signature of candidate.
Date :–––––––––.
11. *Fees paid Rs. :–––––––––.
Affix the receipt so as to be untouchable.
Commissioner General of Examinations,
Through Director General of Department of Animal Production and Health,
Forwarded :-
I certify that the candidate whose particulars appear here in is correct and she/he is eligible to sit for the examination in the medium
of language she/he indicated in paragraph 08.
I also certified that the examination fees Rs. ..................... has/have been properly paid and the relevant receipt is affixed by the
candidate.
I attest the candidate's signature.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department and Designation.
Date :–––––––––.
(* cut off if no fee is payable)
Annexure A
(a) First Efficiency Bar Examination for officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service consists of the
following subjects :
1. Office Administration and the Establishment Code (Total Marks 100) ;
2. Financial Regulations (Total Marks 100).
01. Office Administration and the Establishment Code :
The paper on Office Administration and Establishment Code is based on the following Establishment Code Chapter II, III, IV , V ,
VIII, XII, XIII, XIV , XIX, XLVIII.
Note.– A candidate should score 40% marks for the pass marks.
02. Financial Regulations.– This paper is based on the following chapters of the FInancial Regulations.
Chapter I
Estimates of Expenditure and Revenue Consolidated Fund, Annual Estimates, Variations to Annual Estimates (From F. R. 1 to
68).

<!-- page 30 -->

 I fldgi : ^IIw& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'10'25
PART I : S EC. (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 25.10.2012
2180
Chapter III
Financial Management and Accountability Chief Accounting Officer, Accounting Officers, Revenue Account Officers, Delegation
of power for payments.
Approval Ordination of Certification (FR 124-147).
*Note.– Candidate should score 40% for the pass mark, Candidate may sit for the above subjects separately.
Annexure B
Second Efficiency Bar Examination for Officers in the Sri Lanka Livestock Development Officers' Service consists
of the following subjects  :
1. Office Administration and the Establishment Code (Total Marks 100).
2. Financial Regulations (Total Marks 100).
01. Office Administration and the Establishment Code :
The paper on Office Administration and Establishment Code is based on the following :
Establishment Code Chapter XV , XVI, XXIII, XXIV , XXV , XXVII, XXVIII, XXX, XLVII, XLVIII. The Public
Administration Circulars will be applicable in case of Appraisal of performance of officers.
Note.– A candidate should score 40% marks for the pass mark.
02. Financial Regulations.– This question paper is based on the following Chapter of the Financial Regulations.
Chapter VI
Custody of public money, Impress and Bank Accounts, Security of Public Finance, Boards of Survey, Overdrafts and Bank
Account (F. R. 315 to 396).
Chapter XIII
Supplies and Service :
Purchasing process, verification of stores, storing process, Deviation from the contract tender procedure (from F. R. 708-775).
*Note.– Candidate should score 40% for the pass mark. Candidate may sit for the above subjects separately.
10–1087
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.