

<!-- page 1 -->

YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
   
 
Land Settlement Notices :- ... —
 Preliminary Notices ... —
 Final Orders ... —
 Land Reform Commission Notices  ... —
Land Sales by the Government Agents :- ... —
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province ... —
  
 
Land Sales by the Settlement Officers :- ... ––
 Western Province ... —
 Central Province ... —
 Southern Province ... —
 Northern Province ... —
 Eastern Province ... —
 North-Western Province ... —
 North-Central Province ... —
 Uva Province   ... —
 Sabaragamuwa Province   ... —
Land Acquisition Notices ... ––
Land Development Ordinance Notices ... 
Land Redemption Notices ... ––
Lands under Peasant Proprietor Scheme ... ––
Miscellaneous Lands Notices ...  
  
(Published by Authority)
PART III — LAnDS
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
 wxl 2"416 - 2024 foieïn¾ ui 20 jeks isl=rdod - 2024'12'20              
 No. 2,416 - FRiDAy , DECEMbER   20, 2024
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
                                
ImPoRTAnT   noTIce  ReGARDInG   AccePTAnce  of  noTIceS  
foR  PubLIcATIon  In  The  WeekL y  “GAzeTTe”
AttENtiON  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification 
will not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.   
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of  10th January, 2025 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 27th  December,  2024.
electronic Transactions Act, no. 19 of 2006 - Section 9
“Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the 
Gazette.”  
 Gangani Liyanage,  
 Government Printer. 
Department of Government Printing, 
Colombo 08,
1st January, 2024.
 this Gazette can  be downloaded from  www.documents.gov.lk
485 - b 82637  - 333 (12/2024)
Page Page
N. B.–   the list of Juror's in the year 2024 of the Jurisdiction Areas of trincomalee District has been published in Part Vi of this Gazette 
in Sinhala, tamil and English Languages.

<!-- page 2 -->

 III fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'12'20
Part III – Gazette of the democratIc SocIalISt republIc of SrI  lanka – 20.12.2024
486
miscellaneous Lands notices
LAnD  commISSIoneR  GeneRAL’S  
DePARTmenT
Ref. No. of Land Commissioner General : 4/10/67570.
Ref. No. of  Provincial Land Commissioner: NP/28/04/2/
SLO/41/1761.
Notification under State Land Regulation                   
no. 21 (2)
IT is hereby noticed that Lanka Electricity Board has requested 
the State Land allotment in extent of 1.4726 Hectares depicted 
as Lot No. B in the Sketch No. Ya/CHV/2017/149 and situated 
in the Village of Thanangilappu in Thanangilappu (J/299) 
Grama Niladhari Division which belongs to thenmarachchi 
Divisional Secretary's Division in the Jaffna District on lease 
for Commercial Purposes.
02. the boundaries of the land requested are given below :
On the North by   : State Land;
On the East by   : State Land;
On the South by  : State Land;
On the West by   : State Land.
03. the requested land can be granted lease Road for the 
necessary purpose. therefore, the Government has 
intended to lease out the land subject to other Government 
approved conditions and the following conditions  :
 (a)  Term of lease : Thirty (30) years (from 29.08.2023 to 
28.08.2053).
  Annual amount of the lease : in the instances where 
the valuation of land in the year 2023 is less than Five 
Million Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 2% of the market 
Value of the land in the said year, as per the valuation of 
the Chief Valuer. in the instances where the valuation 
of land in the year 2023 is more than Five Million 
Rupees (Rs. 5,000,000), 4% of the market Value of 
the land in the said year, as per the valuation of the 
Chief Valuer. this amount of the lease must be revised 
in every Five years and the revision shall be added a 
20% of the amount that just preceded.
 
  Premium : Not levied.
 (b)   the lessees must not use the said land for any purpose  
whatsoever other than a Commercial Purpose; 
 (c) the lessees must, within a period of one year from 
the date of commencement of the lease, develop the 
said land to the satisfaction of  the Provincial Land 
Commissioner/ Divisional Secretary;
 
 (d)  this lease shall also be subject to other special conditions 
imposed by the Provincial Land Commissioner/ 
Divisional Secretary and other institutes;
 (e)  Existing buildings must be maintained in a proper state 
of repair;
 (f) if the lessee fails to substantiate the purpose for which 
the land was obtained within the specified period of 
time, steps will be taken to cancel the agreement of 
lease;
 (g) No permission will be granted until expiry of 05 years 
from 29.08.2023 for any subleasing or assigning other 
than subleasing or assigning or substantiate the purpose 
for which the land was obtained;
 (h) Payment of the lease rental must be regularly made 
and if defaulted in payment, the agreement will ipso 
facto lapse. in case of non-payment of lease, a penalty 
interest of 10% will be charged on the lease in arrears.
if acceptable reasons are not submitted to me in writing within  
Six (06) weeks of  herein Gazette  publication to the effect that 
this land must not be given on lease, the land shall be leased 
out as requested. 
  
 K. G. P. Saumya, 
 Assistant Land Commissioner
 for Land Commissioner General.
At the Land Commissioner General’s Department, 
No. 1200/6, Land Secretariat, 
“Mihikatha Medura”,
Rajamalwatta Road, battaramulla.
06
th  December, 2024.
12 – 313
PRINTED   AT  THE  DEPARTMENT   OF  GOVERNMENT   PRINTING ,  SRI  LANKA .