

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
PAHIYANGALA CONSERV ATION AND
DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION
(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 24 OF 2009
Printed on the Order of Government
[Certified on 20th A pril, 2009]
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING , SRI LANKA
TO  BE  PURCHASED  AT  THE  GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , COLOMBO  5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 24, 2009

<!-- page 2 -->

Pahiyangala Conservation and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2009
1
[Certified on 20th April, 2009]
L.D.—O. INC. 22/2007.
A N  ACT  TO  INCORPORATE  THE  PAHIYANGALA  CONSERV ATION  AND
D EVELOPMENT  FOUNDATION
WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the
“Pahiyangala Conservation and Development Foundation”
has heretofore been formed for the purpose of effectually
carrying out and transacting all objects and matters connected
with the said Foundation according to the rules agreed to by
its members :
AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretofore
successfully carried out and transacted the several objects
and matters for which it was formed and has applied to be
incorporated, and it is for the public advantage to grant such
application :
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Pahiyangala
Conservation and Development Foundation (Incorporation)
Act, No. 24 of 2009.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,
such and so many persons as now are the members of the
Pahiyangala Conservation and Development Foundation
(hereinafter referred to as the “Foundation”) or shall hereafter
be admitted members of the Corporation hereby constituted,
shall be a body corporate (hereinafter referred to as the
“Corporation”) with perpetual succession, under the name
and style of the “Pahiyangala Conservation and Development
Foundation” and by that name may sue and be sued, with  full
power and authority to have and use a common seal and to
alter the same at its pleasure.
2—PL 003098—3,250 (07/2008)
Short title.
Preamble.
Incorporation of
the Pahiyangala
Conservation
and
Development
Foundation.

<!-- page 3 -->

Pahiyangala Conservation and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2009
2
3. The General objects for which the Corporation is
established are hereby declared to be—
(a) to preserve the historical monuments and cultural
objects within the Pahiyangala Sacred City;
(b) to improve and maintain all buildings, electricity,
water supply and other sanitary services within
the precinct of the Pahiyangala Sacred City;
(c) to give necessary assistance in the religious and
educational research activities conducted within the
Pahiyangala Sacred City; and
(d) to maintain friendly relations with other Buddhist
organisations and religious Organisations in
Sri Lanka and abroad.
4.   Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do
perform and execute, all such acts, matters and things as are
necessary or  desirable for the promotion or furtherance of
the objects of the Corporation or any one of them, including
the power to open, operate and close bank accounts, to borrow
or raise money with or without security, to receive or collect
grants and donations from local or foreign sources, to invest
its funds, and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporatoin shall,  subject to
the rules of the Corporation made under section 6 of this Act
be administered by a Board of Trustees (hereinafter referred
to as “the Board”) consisting of the Chairman, Vice Chairman,
Secretary, Assistant Secretary, Treasurer and two other
members elected in accordance with the rules of the
Corporation.
(2) The first Board of the Corporatoin shall consist of the
members of the Board of Trustee of the Foundation holding
office on the day immediately preceding the date of
commencement of this Act.
General powers
of the
Corporation.
Management of
the affairs of the
Corporation.
General objects
of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 4 -->

Pahiyangala Conservation and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2009
3
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection
(1) the Chief Priest of the Pahiyangala Temple shall be the
first Chairman of the Board.
6. (1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting and by a majority of not less
than two thirds of the members persent and voting, to make
rules, not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or other
written law for all or any of the following matters :—
(a) the classification of membership and admission,
withdrawal or expulsion of members ;
(b) the election of the office bearers, the resignation
from or vacation of, or removal from office of office
bearers and their powers and functions ;
(c) the election of the members of the Board, their
powers, duties and functions and the terms of office
of members of the Board ;
(d) the powers, duties and functions of the various
officers, agents and servants of the Corporation ;
(e) the procedure to be observed at the summoning and
holding of meetings of the Board the time, place,
notice and agenda of such meetings, the quorum
therefore and the conduct of business thereat ;
(f) the administration and management of the property
of the Corporation ; and
(g) generally, for the management of the affairs of the
Corporation.
(2) Any rule made by the Corporation may be amended,
altered, added to, or rescinded at a like meeting and in like
manner as a rule made under subsection (1).
(3) The members of the Corporation shall be subject to the
rules of the Corporation made under this section.
Rules of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 5 -->

Pahiyangala Conservation and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2009
4
7. (1) The Corporation shall have its own fund and all
moneys heretofore or hereafter received by way of gift,
donation, testamentary dispositions, subscriptions,
contributions,  fees or grants on account of the Corporation
shall be deposited to the credit of the Corporation in one or
more Banks as the Board shall determine.
(2) All expenses borne by the Corporation in the exercise,
discharge and performance of the powers, duties and functions
of the Corporation under this Act shall be paid out of the
fund of the Corporation.
8. (1) The financial year of the Corporation shall be the
calendar year.
(2) The Corporation shall cause proper accounts to be
kept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Corporation.
(3) The accounts of the Corporation shall be audited by a
qualified auditor.
(4) In this section “qualified auditor ” means —
(i) an individual who being a member of the Institute
of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any
other Institute established by law, possesses a
certificate to practice as an Accountant issued by
the Council of such  Institute ; or
(ii) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which being a member of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate
to practice as an Accountant issued by the Council
of such Institute.
9. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act,
shall be paid by the Corporation hereby constituted and all
Audit and
Accounts.
Debts due by
and payable to
the Foundation.
Fund of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 6 -->

Pahiyangala Conservation and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2009
5
debts due to, subscriptions and contributions payable to the
Foundation on that day shall be paid to the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act.
10. The Corporation shall be able and capable in law, to
acquire and hold any property movable or immovable which
may become vested in it by virtue of any purchases, grant,
gift, testementary disposition or otherwise, and all such
property shall be held by the Corporation for the purposes of
this Act, and subject to the rules of the Corporation made
under section 6, with full power  to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
11. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever except in the presence of the
Chariman, the Secretary or the Treasurer who shall sign their
names to the instrument in token of their presence, and such
signing shall be independent of the signing of any person as
a witness.
12. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation there
remains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,
any property whatsoever, such property shall not be
distributed among the members of the Corporation, but shall
be given or transferred to some other Institute or Institutes
having objects similar to those of the Corporation, and which
is or are by the rules thereof  prohibited from distributing any
income or property among its or their members. Such Institute
or Institutes shall be determined by the members of the
Corporation at the time of dissolution or immediately before,
the dissolution of the Corporation.
13. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affect
the rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.
14. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Property
remaining on
dissolution.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Corporation may
hold property
movable or
immovable.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
case of
inconsistency.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.

<!-- page 7 -->

Pahiyangala Conservation and Development
Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 24 of 2009
6
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT , GOVERNMENT  PUBLICATIONS  BUREAU , DEPARTMENT  OF
G OVERNMENT  INFORMATION , NO . 163, KIRULAPONA  MAWATHA , POLHENGODA , COLOMBO  05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.