

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
w;s úfYI
wxl 1921$66 - 2015 cQ,s ui 03 jeks isl=rdod - 2015'07'03
No.1921/66  -FRIDAY   JULY  03,  2015
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (A) — PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
WESTERN   PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
Western Provincial Pawn Brokers' Statute No. 01 of 2015
I, Prasanna Ranathunga, Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order, Land, Education, Local
Government and Provincial Administration, Manpower and Employment, Engineering Services and Infromation of the
Western Province Provincial Council, hereby declare that Pawnbrokers' Statute No. 01 of 2015, Western Provincial
Council, do by this order with effect from 09.06.2015 as Assent by the Honorable Governor of Western Province.
P
RASANNA  R ANATHUNGA ,
Chief Minister and Minister of Finance and Planning, Law and Order,
Land, Education, Local Government and Provincial Administration,
Manpower and Employment, Engineering Services and
Infromation of the Western Province Provincial Council
03rd July 2015,
Chief Ministry Office,
Shrawasthi Mandiraya,
Colombo 07.
PAWN BROKERS'  STATUTE OF  THE WESTERN  PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL COUNCIL  No. 01 OF 2015
A statute to regulate the pawnbrokers’ business, except the pawnbroker business conducted by a bank; and to
allocate provisions for matters incidental and related thereto, also to repeal the Pawnbrokers’ Statute No. 03 of 2001.
Provisions of this statute are inconsistent with the provisions of the Pawnbrokers’ Ordinance No. 13 of 1942.
Be it enforced by the Western Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as
follows -
Short title and date
of enforcement.
CHAPTER  I
GENERAL
1. This statute may be cited as the Pawnbrokers’ Statute of the Western Province Provincial
Council No.  01 of 2015 and it shall come into force from the date of assent of the Governor
of the Western Province.

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
2A
CHAPTER II
PERSONS  PROHIBITED  FROM  ENGAGING  IN  THE  PAWNBROKERS’  BUSINESS
2. A person-
1. Not being a citizen of Sri Lanka; or
2. Is a foreign company; or
3. Is a foreign business institution; or
4. Has become an offender or non-qualifier due to certain disability stated in Section
10 of this statute;
he shall not conduct the pawnbrokers’ business on the prescribed day or subsequently.
CHAPTER III
REGISTRATION
3. (1) By every person intending to obtain Pawnbrokers’ Licenses under this statute shall
apply for registration prior to initiating his business and obtain registration for
that from the Commissioner of Revenue.
(2) Where such application is made, the applicant shall present an affidavit to the Revenue
Commissioner to confirm that certain illegal and/or certain unlawful action was not
committed and/or  not been convicted for certain such action until the time of
applying; in case the applicant is a person convicted by a court or a person having a
case against him pending at courts, all the details pertaining to the said lawsuit shall
be presented to the Commissioner of Revenue by way of an affidavit.
CHAPTER IV
OBTAINING   LICENSES
4 (I) No person shall maintain a pawnbrokers’ business unless he bears a license issued
separately by the Commissioner of Revenue on behalf of every business center and/
or branch engaging in pawnbrokers’ business.
(2) Every license issued under above Sub-section (I) shall conform to the format “a”
stated in the First Schedule of this document.
(3) Every license issued under above Sub-section (I) shall be valid only for the business
place stated therein and for a period of one calendar year.
5. One copy of the license issued under Sub-section (I) of the above Section 4 shall be sent
by the Commissioner of Revenue to the Officer-in-charge of the Police of the area where
the pawnbrokers’ business relevant to that license is conducted.
6. A license issued under Sub-section (I) of above Section 4, be it relevant to certain
pawnbroker business, if transferred to other person without a written approval of the
Commissioner of Revenue it shall be considered as null and void.
7. (I) Every person who desire to obtain a license to carryon pawnbroker business shall
forward an application in accordance to the format prescribed by the Commissioner
of Revenue and accompanied by:
Registration
compulsory prior to
initiating business
Pawnbrokers’ to
obtain a license .
A copy of the
license to be sent to
the Officer-in-Charge
of the Police
Transferring license
without prior
approval of Revenue
Commissioner to be
invalid
Applying for a
license
Pawnbrokers’
business being
prohibited for certain
persons
An affidavit to be
forwarded to the
Commissioner of
revenue

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
(a) An affidavit that he has not committed an illegal act and/or unlawful act up to
the time of applying for license and/or that he has not been convicted of such
an offence or default; or in case the applicant is a person convicted by a court
of law or a person having a case against him pending at courts, an affidavit
containing all the details pertaining to the said lawsuit; and
(b) Business Names Registration Certificate; or in case it being a  company,
registration  certificate  under  Company Registration Act and Articles of
Association: if there is any,
(c) Along with the annual accounts reports to be forwarded according to Section
8 of this .statute, where a pawnbroker maintains more than one pawnbroker
center or more than one branch of the same, separate in respect of each center
or each branch separately.
(d) A certified copy of the insurance certificate obtained as per Section 27 of
this statute; and
(e) An instrument drafted as per provisions of Sub-section (1) of Section 43 of
this statute.
(2) A pawnbroker shall forward an application to obtain a license for pawnbroker business
in respect of succeeding calendar year prior to two (02) months of the date on
which the current license is to be expired.
(3) At the registration of the application forwarded for maintaining a pawn business, a
registration fee as determined by the Minister for that purpose payable according to
provisions of Section 53 shall be paid as the relevant registration fee. In addition,
amount specified under Sub-section 9 (2) shall also be deposited subject to the
provisions stated under Sub-section 9 (3).
(4) Where the annual license is issued to a pawnbroker who carried on a pawnbroker
business without renewing the annual license on the due date, registration fee and
the relevant license fee for every year that he carried out the pawnbroker business
without a license and a demurrage charge of 10% percent from the relevant   license
fee for each month in which the pawnbroker business was  conducted without a
license, shall be charged.
(5) Where the annual license is issued to a pawnbroker who carried on a pawnbroker
business without obtaining the annual license, registration fee and the relevant license
fee for every year that he carried out the pawnbroker business without a license and
a demurrage charge of 20% percent from the relevant license fee for each month in
which the pawnbroker business was conducted without a license, shall be charged.
(6) Where an applicant has fulfilled the requirements under this Statute and regulations
enforced under the same for obtaining a license and if he is not a non-qualifier, the
Commissioner of Revenue shall not refuse to issue him a license.
(7) Where certain person has forwarded an application to obtain a license to carry on
pawnbroker business, in case a license is not issued, the Commissioner of Revenue
shall inform the applicant his decision along with the reasons for refusal to issue a
license, prior to lapse of 30 days of receiving the said request.

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
4A
8. A pawnbroker applying for a license in respect of any calendar year shall forward to the
Commissioner of Revenue, annual accounts related to his pawn business of the immediately
preceding financial year.
9. (1) Any person who is to be prohibited from carrying on a pawnbroker business due to
reasons of enforcing provisions of Sub-section (2) of this Statute, a license to carry
on a pawnbroker business shall not be issued on the due date or thereafter and any
license issued to such person due to an error or any other reason shall be treated as
null and void for all purposes.
(2) Annual license fees payable for a license to be issued and the amount of security
payable by a licensee shall be determined, as per provisions of Section 53, by
directions of the Minister published in the Gazette from time to time.
(3) Amount or amounts of Security payable by a licensee as informed by the
Commissioner of Revenue as per above Section (2) shall be credited to a deposit
account of Provincial Council a specified State Bank by the licensee himself. Amount
in deposit and/or interest thereon shall not be paid to the depositor except on closure
or conveyance of business. However, if there is any amount payable to a pawner or
pawners of articles by the licensee, such amount shall be deducted from the security
deposit and interest, and paid.
10. A person applying for a licencse to conduct a pawnbroker business :
(a) if such person is convicted on any offence punishable under provisions of this Statute
or provisions of Chapter XI,XIII, XVII or XVIII of the Penal Code, or under provisions
of Weights and Measures Ordinance in any occasion within . five years immediately
prior to the date of making an application to carry on a pawnbroker business; and 
/or
(b) if he has not produced documents required under provisions of Section 7(1) of this
Statute; and/or
(c) if he has not produced annual statement of accounts required under Section 8 of this
statute; and/or
(d) if a license issued under this statute or under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance is cancelled
under Section 11 of this statute; and/or
(e) if he is a person whose name is published in the Government Gazette according to
Section 12(2) herein; and/or
(f) if he is an auctioneer ;
such person shall not be issued with a license by the Commissioner of Revenue to
conduct a pawnbroker business.
11. (1) If the Commissioner of Revenue is satisfied after an inspection that a person holding
a license under Section 4 of this Statute has acted in contravention of this Statute or
regulations enforced  under this Statute in respect of his business as a pawnbroker
during the period of validity of license, such person’s license may be cancelled.
However, the licensee shall be informed about such action before cancelling the
license and he shall be given 30 days time to present matters against such decision.
Ordering license fees
and security
Refusing issuance of
a license
Cancellation of a
license
 Annual accounts to
be forwarded when
applying for a
license
Prohibition of
license issuance to
certain persons

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
(2) Where a pawnbroker, and/or any of his servant and/or agent is convicted by courts in
respect of an offence under this statute and/or in respect of certain fraud committed
in his business and/or in respect of knowingly accepting smuggled articles, the
license of that pawnbroker shall be annulled by the Commissioner of Revenue.
12. The Commissioner of Revenue, by way of a notification in Sinhala, Tamil and
English newspapers shall publish;
(I) The name of every pawnbroker, name of his business and the address where the said
business is conducted in case where the period of validity of an annual license of
certain licensee’s has exceeded and no license has been issued to the successive
year;
(2) Name of the person, private address, name of business, address of where the said
business was conducted in every occasion of being convicted under Section 37 of
this Statute.
CHAPTER V
CONDITIONS  TO  BE  OBSERVED  BY  THE  LICENSEES
13. Every pawnbroker who intends to be absent from Sri Lanka from any period exceeding 03
months shall give written notice of the intentions to travel abroad to the Commissioner of
Revenue. Further, having nominated a person who is entitled under this statute to carry out
that pawnbroker business and to act for him on his behalf during his absence in Sri Lanka,
shall obtain the written approval of the Commissioner of Revenue with regard to that.
14. No pawnbroker carrying out pawnbroker business shall act as or carry on the business of
an auctioneer.
15. Every pawnbroker shall-
(l) Keep exhibited in legible characters over the outer door of his shop or place of
business, the name of his business, registered license number and the word
“Pawnbroker” in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,
(2) Further; Keep exhibited in a conspicuous place of his business place, so as to be
clearly visible. and be legible by every person visiting such place, a notice in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages containing particulars set out in the 2nd Schedule herein.
16. Where every person engaged in the business of pawning is required under this Statute to
enter any particulars in any book, form or document such particulars shall be entered in
the languages of Sinhala or Tamil. In addition to that such details should also be entered in
English.
17. Every pawnbroker shall keep and use in his business a Pledge Book, as set out in form “B”
and a Sales Book of pledges as set out in form “c” of the First Schedule herein.
18. (1) Every pawn ticket shall be written and signed in original and two counterfoils as set
out in form “D” of the First Schedule shown herein and in accordance with the
directions contained in that form.
The name and
address of licensees
contravening the
regulations and
conditions of the
statute to be
published in Gazette
and newspapers
Notifying about
pawnbrokers’
absence from Sri
Lanka
Pawnbroker not to
act as an  auctioneer
Languages to be
used in entering
particulars
Pawn tickets and
pawning to take place
Books to be kept by
pawnbrokers
Displaying the
business Name,
License No. and
details of Second
Schedule by a
pawnbroker

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
6A
(2) The particulars stated in the second Schedule shall be printed legibly in Sinhala,
Tamil and English languages on the back side of the original of every pawn ticket.
(3) Where a pledge is pawned the pawn ticket relating to the pledge shall bear the stamp
duty to the prescribed value in the ticket. The expense to be incurred in providing
such stamp duty shall be borne by the pawnbroker.
(4) No any articles shall be or be deemed to be taken in pawn unless and until -
a) The pawner has signed the pawn ticket ;
b) The pawnbroker has signed the pawn ticket and has given the same to the pawner;
19. No pawnbroker shall, in respect of a loan on a pledge, charge interest at a rate exceeding
the rates specified in the second Schedule.
Provided however, where certain tax is payable in respect of a loan given on a pledge,
nothing in the preceding provisions of this Section shall be deemed to prohibit the
pawnbrokers from recovering such tax from the pawner. In this section “pledge” includes
a pledge which has been pawned and not been redeemed before the prescribed date.
CHAPTER VI
PLEDGES
20. Every pledge shall be redeemable within a period of 24 months (hereinafter in this Statute
referred to as the “period of redemption”) from the day of pawning exclusive of that day.
21. Notwithstanding  anything stated in Section 20 of this Statute to the contrary, every pledge
shall continue to be redeemable until it is disposed of as provided under Section 29 of this
Statute, although the period of redemption as expired.
22. (1) The pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge if he surrenders to the pawn broker
original of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge and proves his identity by signing
on the original ticket in the presence of the pawnbroker or his agent or servant.
(2) A person other than the pawner shall be entitled to redeem a pledge. if such person
surrenders to the pawnbroker the original of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge,
duly signed by the  pawner, and if such person proves his identity and signs the
original pawn ticket in the presence of the pawnbroker, or his agent or servant
(3) Where by reason of the death or of legal disability of the pawner, the holder of the
original of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge, claims to be entitled to redeem the
pledge, but is unable to surrender to the pawnbroker the original of the pawn ticket
relating to that pledge duly signed by pawner, shall be entitled to redeem such pledge
if such holder of the original of the pawn ticket surrenders the same together with an
affidavit made properly before a Justice of Peace or Commissioner of Oaths by said
holder and person standing as witness on holder’s identity, to the pawnbroker and
signs the original pawn ticket in the presence of the pawnbroker, or his agent or
servant and proves his identity.
(4) Subjected to the provisions of Sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) above, the pawnbroker
shall on payment of loan lent on the pledge, the interest due thereon and the tax of
any payable in respect of such loan deliver the pledge to the pawner or holder of the
Pledges redeemable
within 24 months
Interest rates
Procedure for
redeeming of a
pledge

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
pawn ticket relating to the pledge; and the pawnbroker who has taken action thus
shall be indemnified from any responsibility pertaining to the relevant transaction.
Provided however, if the pawnbroker has reason to suspect that the. holder of pawn
ticket has obtained the possession of the pawn ticket illegally and by theft, or
otherwise, the pawnbroker shall immediately inform the closest Police Station with
regard to that.
23. (1) Any person claiming to be the owner of a pledge, by not holding the original of the
pawn ticket, or any person claiming to be entitled to hold the original of the pawn
ticket as per Sub section 22(3), alleges that the foil of such ticket has been lost,
stolen, mislaid, destroyed or fraudulently obtained from him, may furnish to the
pawnbroker a affidavits made properly and duly declared before a Justice of Peace
or Commissioner of Oaths by himself and by the person witnessing his identity,
shall  have the right to redeem the said pledges. Thereupon have as between himself
and the pawnbroker, all the same rights and remedies as if he produced the original
of the pawn ticket. Provided however, that for the purpose of redeeming a pledge he
shall sign the counterfoil of the pawn ticket, not the original thereof, as required by
Section 18.
(2) The pawnbroker is hereby indemnified from the provisions set out in above (1) for
delivering the pledge or acting in confirmation with the declaration, unless he has
actual or con vincible notice that the declaration is fraudulent or false in any material
particulars.
24. (1) Where the original of a pawn ticket is surrendered to the pawnbroker for the purpose
of redeeming a pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession the original,
second copy and third copy of the pawn ticket for a period of twelve months reckoned
from the date of the redemption of that pledge.
(2) Where a pledge is redeemed without surrendering the original of the pawn ticket
relating to the pledge, the pawnbroker shall retain in his possession for a period of
twelve months reckoned from the date of the redemption of that pledge the second
and third copies of the pawn ticket relating to the pledge and the affidavit furnished
to him under Section 23(1) for the purpose of such redemption.
(3) Where a pledge is sold under the provisions of this Statute, the pawnbroker shall
retain in his possession the second and third copies of the pawn ticket relating to
the pledge for a period of twelve months reckoned from the date of sale.
25. (1) Where any pledge pawned to a pawnbroker is definitely lost under specific condition,
the security kept by that Pawnbroker shall be deployed properly in order to pay
compensation to the Pawner or any other person entitled to redeem that pledge.
(2) The Pawnbroker shall re-deposit the deficit amount of security from the security to
be deposited as per Sub section 9(2) that became deficit due to the reason of payment
of compensation  under above Sub section (I) to the persons eligible for
compensation. If the amount payable under Sub section (I) above exceeds the security
deposit, such amount that exceed shall also be paid. In addition to that the amount of
the security stated in Section 9(2) should be re-deposited by the Pawnbroker.
Protection of owners
and of pawners not
having pawn tickets
Pawn ticket to be
retained by the
pawnbroker after
redemption or sale
of pledge
Setting of  the
security and
liquidation of
business by settling
deficits
Application and
return of security
furnished by
Pawnbroker
Keeping pawn
tickets in custody in
illegal manner.

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
8A
Requirement of
Revenue
Commissioner’s
approval to hold
auction
(3) Where a person ceases to carryon the business of a pawnbroker, the amount of
security furnished by him shall be payable to such pawnbroker, after deducting any
amount due for payment of any sum mentioned under Section (I).
26. Where a pledge is destroyed or damaged on consequence of fire or natural disaster, the
pawnbroker shall be liable on demand by the pawner within the period of redemption of
the pledge to pay to the pawner the balance money; after deducting the amount of loan and
interest and the tax amount, if any, payable in respect of such loan; from the value of the
pledge calculated as at the pawned date.
27. Every pawnbroker shall insure his business with full liability insurance cover, showing the
full value of the articles pawned with him and all articles and pledges intended to be pawned
with him within a year.
28. Every pawnbroker shall, at the time of redemption of the pledge issue a receipt for the
amount of loan and interest paid to him including the taxes if any recovered by him and
such receipt shall be kept in the form “E” set out as per Schedule I herein and a copy of
such receipt shall be retained by the pawnbroker.
29. (1) Every pledge which is not redeemed within the period of redemption may be disposed
by sale at a public auction; but shall not be disposed of otherwise and regulations in
the third schedule shall be observed in such sale.
(2) Where a pledge is to be sold by public auction, under preceding provisions of this
Section the pawnbroker with whom such pledge has been pawned, shall, for the
purpose of obtaining approval. give at least 60 days notice in writing to the Provincial
Commissioner of Revenue, of the date and time fixed for such sale and the place
such sale is to be held. The Commissioner of   Revenue, subsequent to receiving
such notice shall inform his decision to the pawnbroker before 30 days of the date
given for holding the auction.
(3) Where a pledge of a pawnbroker is to be sold under this statute, after obtaining
permission from the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, the pawnbroker shall
inform the pawner in writing by a preliminary notice sent via registered post before
14 days about the date, time and place of auction sale to be held by the pawnbroker,.
30. In every occasion where a pledge is sold under this Statute for more than the amount of
the loan and interest thereon due on the date of sale, including any tax payable in respect
of such loan, the pawnbroker shall-
(a) Within 2 weeks of conclusion of the auction inform the pawner in writing to the
address stated in Pledge Book by registered post as to the amount of which the
pledge was sold, and the  amount lying to the credit of the pawner after deducting the
loan  amount, interest , certain tax and necessary costs and charges of the sales, and,
(b) Such amount lying to the credit of the pawner shall be paid to the him, if he makes a
demand within one year from the date of such sale.
(c) Where there is any money as at 30
th June and 31st December of every year, unclaimed
by pawners, an accounts report about such money shall be presented by the pawnbroker
to the Commissioner of Revenue.
Insurance Cover to
be obtained
Receipt issued at
the time of
redemption of
pledge
Pledges may be
sold by auction
Procedure at sale
of pledge for
amount exceeding
the loan interest
and tax
At liquidation of
business repaying
the security to
pawnbroker
In case of damage to
the pledge

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
Procedure related
 to money on sales
of pledges
deposited with
Commissioner of
Revenue
(d) If no such demand is made within one year period as provided under Section (b)
above, immediately after expiry of such period, the amount lying to the credit of the
pawner shall be entrusted to the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue.
31. (1) Where certain amount of money is deposited in the name of Commissioner of
Revenue as per provisions of Section 30, the pawner shall forthwith be informed by
the Commissioner of Revenue about such deposit.
(2) Within six months of the receipt of a notice sent by Commissioner of Revenue under
Sub section (1) above, where a written request is made by the pawner to the
Commissioner of Revenue to pay to him the amount stated in such notice, that amount
shall be paid to the pawner by the Commissioner of Revenue within 30 days upon
receipt of such request.
(3) When no request is received within the six months period as provided under Section
(2) above, such amount that was to be payable to a pawner shall be credited to the
Provincial Council Fund by the Commissioner of Revenue.
32. A pawnbroker shall not bid at a public sale by auction, held or purporting to be held under
provisions of this Statute, for a pledge pawned with him.
CHAPTER VII
INSPECTION,  EXAMINATION  AND  SEIZURE
33. (1) At any occasion within two years from the date on which a pledge was sold under
provisions of this statute, the holder of the pawn ticket may inspect the entry of the
sale in the pawnbroker’s book and in the catalogue containing information about the
auction sale and authenticated by the signature of the auctioneer, or either of the
entries. The pawnbroker shall permit the holder of the pawn ticket to inspect the
entry of the sale in such book and in the catalogue or either of them.
(2) The Revenue Commissioner or an officer in state public service or Provincial Public
Service or a team of such authorized by him in writing has the power to inspect
accounts of the business of a pawnbroker.
34. Where any person -
(a) Not producing the National Identity Card, valid Passport or Driving License when
offering an article on pawn, and/or,
(b) Refusing and/or unable to give satisfactory account of the means by which he became
in possession of the article presented to a pawnbroker for pawning, and/or,
(c) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker whether an article offered on pawn
by such person is his own property or not, or as to his name and address, and/or,
(d) Attempts and tries to redeem a pledge not entitled to be redeemed by him, and/or,
(e) The pawnbroker has reason to suspect that when an article is offered on pawn, the
same has been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained -
the pawnbroker, considering the above factors has reasonable and justifiable suspicion
about the pawner;· shall inform the Police in charge of the said area forthwith.
Pawnbroker
prohibited from
purchasing pledges at
auction
Powers relating to
inspection of sale
book and accounts
Procedure to be
followed where
pawner  produces
inaccurate
information about
himself or articles
pawned

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
10A
35. It shall be lawful for an officer of the Public Provincial Public Service, or group of officers
authorized by the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue, to enter any pawnbroker’s shop or
place of business at any hour and examine and take any notes of any articles pledged with the
pawnbroker and/or any books and documents kept by him. If the Commissioner of Revenue
decides that the assistance of a Police Officer is necessary for such search, that Police
Officer in Charge may be accompanied and attend to any matters or all matters herein
mentioned. No person shall resist any such officer or group of such officers in the execution
of such duties.
CHAPTER VIII
OFFENCES  AND  PENALTIES
36. (1) Every person who-
(a) Offers to a pawnbroker an article on pawn, but refuses or is unable to give a
satisfactory account of the means by which he became in possession of such
article; and/or,
(b) Willfully gives false information to a pawnbroker whether an article offered
by him on pawn to the pawnbroker is his own property or not, and/or as to his
name and address and/or as to the name and address of the owner of such article;
and/or,
(c) Pawns or trying to pawn with a pawnbroker, without any lawful excuse, the
property of another person ; and/or,
(d) Attempts to redeem a pledge not being a person entitled to redeem such pledge;
and/or,
(e) willfully and knowingly gives false information regarding the article offered
on pawn or when the pawnbroker has reason to suspect that the article offered
on pawn has been stolen or otherwise illegally obtained;
shall be guilty of an offence
(2) Every person violating any provision of this Statute or fails to perform anything which
is required to be performed under provisions of this Statute or promotes such
contravention, shall also be guilty of an offence
37.Every pawnbroker who-
(I) Maintains a pawnbroker’s business without obtaining a proper license from the
Commissioner of Revenue under provisions of Section 04 of this Statute; and/or,
(2) Fails to forward the annual report on accounts to the Commissioner of Revenue
under provisions of Section 08 of  this Statute and/or
(3) Contravenes provisions of Section 22 and/or, provisions of Section 34 of this Statute
or neglects conformation to such provisions; and/or,
(4) Neglects to have his business insured with a full liability insurance as prescribed by
Section 27 of this statute; and/or,
Offences by pawners
and other persons
Offences by
pawnbrokers
Promoting
Power to search
pawnbroker’s shop or
residence

<!-- page 11 -->

11AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
(5) Takes an articles on pawn from any person appearing to be under the age of eighteen
years and or under the influence of liquor; and/or,
(6) Takes an article on pawn without giving the pawner original of the pawn ticket;
and/ or,
(7) Purchases, takes on pawn or exchanging the original of a pawn ticket issued by another
pawnbroker; and/or,
(8) Employs any servant under the age of eighteen years to take an article on pawn;
and/or,
(9) Make room for redemption of an article while in pawn with him with a view to
purchasing it; and/or,
(10) Come into agreement with pawner or person offering to pawn any article; to purchase,
sell or to dispose an article kept with the pawnbroker in pawn within· the period of
redemption or to purchase, sell or dispose an article offered for pawning at the time
of pawning; and/or,
(11) Come into agreement with any person other than the pawner; to purchase, sell or to
dispose an article kept with the pawnbroker in pawn within the period of redemption
or at the time the said article was offered for pawning; and/or,
(12) Sells or otherwise disposes of any pledge pawned with him, except in such manner
as is authorized by this Statute; and/or,
(13) Makes any false entry in any book required to be kept by him  under this Statute or
neglecting to enter therein any entry which is required by the Statute; and/or,
(14) Contravenes any of the provisions of this Statute that does not carry a declared penalty;
 Shall be guilty of an offence
38. Every pawnbroker who knowingly taking on pawn any linen or apparel, or unfinished goods
or materials entrusted to any person to wash, clean, iron, mend, manufacture, workout,
finish or decorate shall be guilty of an offence.
39. Every pawnbroker who neglects to deposit with the Provincial Commissioner of Revenue
the amount lying to the credit of a pawner as required by Section 30 shall be guilty of an
offence.
40. (I) Where an offence is committed by a board of persons, if the said board of persons is
a corporation all the directors and officers of the said corporation, or, if it is a business
institution all the partners of the said business, or, if it being a non-incorporated
company and non-business institution, the  management and all the officers
responsible for its administration shall be considered as offenders.
However, where a person proves that the said offence was committed without his
knowledge or he has taken prompt action to prevent the said offence being committed,
such a person shall not be considered as an offender to the said offence.
(2) Anything done or neglected to be done by the servant or agent of a pawnbroker in the
course of carrying out the business or in relation to the business of a pawnbroker,
Offences by a servant
or agent of a
pawnbroker
Prohibition of taking
on pawn linen,
clothing, unfinished
goods
Defaulting of
deposits to be an
offence
Offences by Directors
and Managers of a
limited company

<!-- page 12 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
12A
shall be deemed to be done or neglected, as the case may be, by the pawnbroker.
Provided however, any action done or neglected by any servant or agent of the
pawnbroker contravening any provision of this Statute, such servant or agent shall be
guilty of an offence.
41. (1) (a) Every person who takes action while violating Sections 2, 3(1),4(1), 14, 17,
19,22(4),27,29,30,34,36,37(12),38, 39, 44, 45 of this statute and found guilty
when convicted after a summary trial before a Magistrate, shall be subjected to
a fine not less than Rs. 200,000/- or imprisonment for a period not exceeding
six months or both the fine and imprisonment. In addition to the above penalties,
the court has power to order closure of a pawn business kept by a pawnbroker.
The courts may make suitable orders based on situational matters arising in
relation to the said pawning businesses and safety of pledges, handing over of
pledges to the owners again.
(b) In addition to the penalties imposed under above Sub section (l)(a), a court of
law shall order, in respect of a pawnbroker who maintains his pawn business
without obtaining an annual license, to pay arrears of annual license fees and a
sum equal to the penalty as imposed under Section 7(5) of this statute. All
sums of money charged by a court of law as per this Subsection shall be credited
to the  Provincial Council Fund.
(c) In addition to the penalties imposed under above Sub-section (l)(a), a Court of
law shall order in respect of a pawnbroker who maintains his pawn business
without renewing his annual license, to pay arrears of annual license fees and a
sum equal to the penalty imposed under Section 7(4) of this Statute. All sums
of money charged by a court of law as per this Subsection shall be credited to
the Provincial Council Fund.
(d) In addition to a penalty imposed under above Sub section (1) (a), where a
pawnbroker is convicted for an offence under Section 38, further to a penalty
imposed by a court of law for that offence, the court may order that pawnbroker
to deliver such pledge to the owner in the presence of the court or in any other
manner which the court may direct.
(e) In addition to a penalty imposed under above Section (1)(a), where a pawnbroker
is convicted for an offence under Section 39 further to a penalty imposed by a
court of law for the said offence, the court may order a sum equal to that amount
be paid by the pawnbroker in the manner of recovering a fine from such
pawnbroker. All such money, charged and collected thus by the court shall be
deposited in custody of the Commissioner of Revenue.
2. Every person functioning having contravened Sections 13, I5, 18(1), 18(3), 19, 24,
32, 35, 37(5), 37(6), 37(7), 37(8), 37(9), 37(11), 37(13) and 54, subsequent to
being convicted by a summary trial conducted before a Magistrate, shall be subjected
to a fine not less than One Hundred Thousand Rupees or imprisonment for a period
not exceeding 06 months or both the fine and imprisonment.
42. Whenever it is reported to a court of law that in any legal action filed under this Statute that
a pawnbroker is in unlawful possession of an article or several articles, then the court of
law shall order such article or articles to be produced before the court and make suitable
orders that may consider necessary and under such orders if any, the court has the power to
Articles unlawfully
possessed by a
pawnbroker
General Penalties
Offences and
Penalties

<!-- page 13 -->

13AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
order such article or articles to be delivered to any person named by such court, and where
such delivery is not possible, the court may order such article or articles to be confiscated.
CHAPTER  IX
CONVEYING  AND  LIQUIDATION  OF  THE  BUSINESS
43. (1) Where a business of a pawnbroker is maintained by a single person, and if he intends
to convey it to someone after his death, a legal instrument prepared properly
containing obligations with that person and be produced when applying for registration
for license or at the time of obtaining annual license. However, such person shall be
qualified to issue a license to carry on a pawn business under this Statute.
(2) Where the person who is nominated for conveyance of the business as per above Sub
section (1) above, is found to be dead, a legal document containing obligatory
conditions, signed    by other person for and on behalf of deceased person, shall
again be forwarded to the Commissioner by the pawnbroker.
(3) Where a pawn business is to be carried out on partnership basis, there shall be
provisions in the partnership agreement to protect the rights of pawners when
liquidating such business. If the Commissioner is of opinion that such provisions
have not been included in the partnership agreement the issuance of license shall be
refused.
44. (1) If a pawnbroker conducting a pawning business intends to convey that business to
another person from certain date onwards, a written request in that regard should be
made from the Commissioner of Revenue prior to three months from such
conveyance.
(2) (a) Where such a request received, the Commissioner of  Revenue within 07 days
of receiving such request shall inform the pawnbroker in writing:-
(i) to stop taking articles on pawn of that business from a specific date
onwards;
(ii) to obtain and forward police clearance certificates from the Officer in
Charge of the Police Station purviewing the area of his business place,
and from the Officer in Charge of the Police Station purviewing the area
of his permanent residence;
(iii) to forward by the conveyer an affidavit containing the facts specified in
Sub-section 3(2) of this statute and if he is engaged in any business, to
forward a police clearance certificate from the Officer in Charge of the
police station where his business is located and from the Officer in Charge
of the police where he permanently resides in;
(iv) to forward all the details pertaining to all the pledges to be released and
pledges not have been redeemed within the pawning period;
(v) to furnish other details as required by the Commissioner of Revenue.
(b) A person who is bound to make a request to the Commissioner of Revenue
under this Section is in a disabled condition physically and mentally, and if
such business is an individually owned business, such request may be made by
Need to produce an
instrument at the time
of applying for
license regarding the
person to whom
business is
conveyable at the
death of pawnbroker
A written notice to  be
obtained from
Commissioner of
Revenue to convey
the business

<!-- page 14 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
14A
a lawful heir of such person. In case of a partnership business, any other partner/
partners may make such request.
(3) The Commissioner of Revenue within one calendar month of receiving a request for
conveyance of pawning business as per Sub section (I) above shall inform his decision
to the said person in writing.
(4) From the date of receiving the decision of Commissioner of Revenue under Sub -
section (3) above, the pawnbroker shall publish in the place of said business and in
daily newspapers of Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, a public notice containing
the name, address, National Identity Card number of the conveyer of his business
and the date of conveyance.
45. (1) Any person carrying on a pawn business, if intends to liquidate  his business, a
written request shall be forwarded to Commissioner of Revenue before three months
to the date of liquidation.
(2) A person keeping a pawning business under Sub section (I) above, upon making a
written request to the Commissioner of Revenue to liquidate his business, shall,
within 14 days of making such request publish, in the place of business and in Sinhala,
Tamil and English newspapers, a notice stating his intention to liquidate his business.
(3) (a) Where a written request is received for liquidation of  business under above
Sub-section (1), the Commissioner of Revenue shall within seven days of
receiving such letter, inform the pawnbroker in writing -
(i) to stop taking articles on pawn from a specified date onwards;
(ii) to forward all information in respect of all pledges to be redeemed;
(iii) to forward an affidavit that he will carryon the business until the date of
redeeming the last pledge.
(b) Furthermore, the Commissioner of Revenue, after informing the relevant Police
Station that the said pawnbroker has made a request to liquidate his business,
shall call a report from the Heads of the Police Stations purviewing the
pawnbroker’s residential area and business place as to there is any complaint
against his business in relation to any criminal offence and whether there is a
court proceeding related to any criminal offence against his business.
(c) A person who is bound to make a request to the Commissioner of Revenue
under Section (I) above is physically and mentally in a disable condition and if
such business is an individually owned business, such request may be made by
a legal heir of such person. 
In case of a partnership business. any other partner
/partners may make such request.
(4) The Commissioner of Revenue within one calendar month from the date of receiving
a request to liquidate a pawn business under Sub-section (I) above shall inform his
decision in writing to such person.
(5) Within 30 days from the date of receiving the written decision of Commissioner of
revenue under Sub section (4) above, the pawnbroker shall publish at his business
place and in Sinhala, Tamil and English newspapers a public notice stating the date of
liquidation of his business.
Liquidation of
business

<!-- page 15 -->

15AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
Caretaker to act on
behalf of the person
disabled
CHAPTER  X
SPECIAL   SITUA TIONS
46. Where this Statute states certain action be carried out by certain person or where
performance of certain action or function required under this statute, and in case of the
intended person is disabled physically or mentally, such action or function will have to be
performed by the legal heir of the said disabled person.
47. When accomplishment of certain action to be performed by certain person or
accomplishment of certain action or function under this Statute involves a partnership
business, where two or more persons are involved, such action or function shall be
performed by the principal partner of the said business.
However, any person who has been informed under the provisions of this Statute as the
principal partner of a partnership business, he shall be deemed as the principal partner
unless proven that he is not a partner of the said business or any other person in Sri Lanka
is the principal partner of the said business,
48. (1) Where certain action is performed under this Statute by a board of persons, if the
said board of persons is a corporation all the directors and officers of the said
corporation or if it is a business institution, all the partners of the said business or if
it being a company non-incorporated non-business institution; the management and
all the officers responsible of its administration shall be responsible for the said
action.
However, where a person who has been notified under the provisions of this statute
on behalf of a board of persons being a corporation, business institution or non-
incorporated company; if he proves that he has no connection whatsoever with the
said board of persons or he has no responsibility with regard to the said actions, he
shall be considered as not responsible to such action.
49. Where a certain person conducting a pawning business conveys his business to other certain
person, even though the conveyer has not been notified previously 
about an amount of
arrears defaulted in relation to that business that had existed for a time-period prior to the
conveyance, the provisions of this Statute should be applicable with regard to charging that
arrear amount from the said conveyer.
50. (1) Where a person conducting pawning business has deceased, his successor shall be
subjected to carry out all the activities, matters and affairs that the deceased person
was subjected to accomplish under this Statute had he been alive and all the arrears
for the period prior to the death of the deceased, chargeable from the deceased person
had he been alive, shall be levied from the said executor.
Nevertheless
(a) No legal suit shall be filed against the executor under the provisions of Chapter
VIll of this Statute with regard to certain action or negligence of the deceased
person;
(b) The responsibility of the executor under this Section shall be limited to the
total -
(i) arising from the amount of the estate of the deceased person which the
executor possessed or was under his control at the date of delivery of
such notice to him regarding any binding arising under the provisions of
this Statute; and
Principal partner to
act in case of
partnership business
Assigning
responsibility on
behalf of company or
board of persons
Convey to pay arrears
Executor subjected to
pay defaulted money
payable by a person
deceased.

<!-- page 16 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
16A
(ii) an amount of certain part of that estate which may be in possession of an
inheritor or other person connected to such estate.
CHAPTER  XI
RECOVERY  OF  AMOUNTS  IN  ARREARS
51. (1) In order to recover certain amount in arrears under this statute, the Commissioner of
Revenue shall inform through registered post informing the pawnbroker or person
bearing the said responsibility that payments should be made prior to a date specified
in the notice, whereas, any amount not paid so shall be considered as arrears and
charged.
(2) (a) When there is a default of payment of an amount under Sub section (1) above, the
Commissioner of Revenue before taking action to recover such amount in any manner
according to foregoing provisions, a letter or a notice shall be issued to the defaulter
under registered post stating -
(a) the details of the amount in arrears
(b) the intention of taking action to recover the amount in arrears
(3) Such a pawnbroker in receipt of a notice issued by the Commissioner of Revenue
under above Sub section (2) may forward any objection if any, in writing within 30
days of the date stated in such notice to the Commissioner of Revenue. The
Commissioner of Revenue shall consider such objection and shall inform his decision
to pawnbroker or person bearing that responsibility in writing within 2 weeks of
receiving such objection and such decision shall be final and conclusive.
52. (1) For the purpose of recovering any amount of arrears payable under this Statute, the
Commissioner of Revenue or a person authorized by him in writing may issue a
certificate to a court exercising proper jurisdiction.
(2) Nothing under this Section shall authorize or require the Magistrate in any proceeding
thereunder to question the correctness of a statement included in a certificate or
statement issued by the Commissioner of Revenue for the purposes of above Section
(1), whereas, the Magistrate shall take measures to charge the amount stated in the
said certificate as a penalty.
(3)
In any legal proceedings the assurance of the Commissioner of Revenue shall be an
ample evidence that the defaulted amount in arrears has been calculated properly and
payments of such amounts had been defaulted; and any type of answers filed showing
that fees are excessive and false and such appeals made against shall not be considered
or accepted.
CHAPA TER  XII
GENERAL  PROVISIONS
53 (1) The minister may make regulations and/or orders from time to time in respect of
matters authorized by this Statute to make laws/regulations and/or orders or matters
required to enforce the provisions of this Statute.
Notifying to pay the
amount in arrears
Informing by
registered post prior
to recovery of arrears
Legal action before a
Magistrate for
recovery of amount in
arrears
Enforcing regulations
Obections may be
forwarded regarding
recovery of arrears

<!-- page 17 -->

17AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
(2) Without harm to the extension of powers assigned by Sub section (1) above, the
minister may made regulations ;
(a) ordering certain specific matter considered as prescribable by this Statute;
and
(b) providing provisions for certain matter consequential or supplementary to
placing security by pawnbrokers.
(3) All rules, regulations and/or order made under this Section shall be published in the
Gazette and shall come into force from a date specifically stated in the said rule,
regulation and/or order, or from a subsequent date of such publication.
(4) Every regulation made under this Section shall be presented to the Provincial Council
meeting within three months of its publication in the Gazette or in case a Provincial
Council meeting was not held within that period, such regulation, in order to be
decided or approved, shall be presented in the form of a motion to the first Council
meeting held subsequent to the elapse of that period. Any regulation not approved
having presented to the Provincial Council meeting thus, shall be considered as
repealed from the date of such rejection, however, no harm shall be caused to any
action taken under that regulation prior to its rejection.
(5) From whatever date should certain regulation be considered as repealed, such date
shall be announced by a Gazette notification.
54. (1) For the purpose of this Statute the Commissioner of Revenue by written notice
require any person to -
(a) produce, within a specified period of time, specially mentioned books, accounts,
trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque books, pawn tickets, pledge
books, audit reports, or any other documents mentioned in such notice, owned
by such person.
(b) Supply any information
(c) Be present at a time, date and place mentioned in the notice, by himself or by
an authorized representative to check any matter or any matters.
(2) When a notice is served, upon any person to furnish any information· mentioned under
Paragraph (a) of Sub section (I) such person shall act according to such directions
contrary to whatever mentioned under any other written law, wherein; any books,
accounts, trading lists, stock lists, registers, vouchers, cheque books, pawn tickets,
pledge books, audit reports, or other documents that have been produced to the
Commissioner of Revenue or being produced or taken into his possession by any
other manner, when required to be kept in his possession for a certain period for
purposes of this Statute, they may be kept in his possession as required.
55. Any notice sent by registered post under this statute shall be considered as duly served to
the person named in the notice on the 7
th day from the date of handing over the said notice
to the post.
56. Filing any legal action for any offence under this Statute shall take place on the approval
of the Commissioner of Revenue.
Information
required by
Reveune
Commissioner
Retaining
information
Serving notices
Filling legal action

<!-- page 18 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
18A
57. The Commissioner of Revenue shall determine from time to time the forms to be used for
the purpose of performing duties under this Statute, the Commissioner may amend or alter
from “time to time the forms and or registers so determined or substitute any other forms
or registers so determined.
58. Every person appointed under this Statute or considered having appointed so, or every
person employed or being employed to assist any person for the purpose of carrying out or
to carry out the functions and provisions under this Statute, shall protect and safeguard the
secrecy in respect of all matters known to him concerning any person’s duties and activities
performed under provision of this Statute, except when, in the performance of his own
duties and such fact or information shall not be conveyed to anyone except to the person to
whom it is relevant or to his authorized representative, or to the minister, or to the Chief
Secretary, or to his authorized representative and shall not allow and keep room, or permit
any person to obtain any document whatsoever in the possession, custody and in the control
of the Commissioner of Revenue.
59. Any function or anything whatever is authorized to be exercised by a pawnbroker under this
Statute may be exercised by a servant or an agent of a pawnbroker with his permission.
60. Any authority, duty or task stipulated under this Statute may be carried out and exercised by
an officer of Public Service! Provincial Public Service assigned with written authority
under the signature of Commissioner of Revenue.
61. For the purpose of this Statute any person who, purchases or receives or takes in goods and
pays, or advances or lends thereon any sum of money under an agreement or understanding
expressed on implied, or be form the nature and character of the transaction reasonably
inferred that those goods may be redeemed or purchased on any conditions; or who keeps
a shop for the purchase or sale of goods or for taking goods by way of security for money
advanced thereon; shall be considered as a person carrying on the pawn business. (Further,
every such transaction, article payment advance and loan shall be deemed a pawning, pledge
and loan within this Statute;)
62. The provisions of Criminal Procedure Code No. 15 of 1979 shall apply for the purposes
of this statute.
63. From the date of enforcement of this statute, the Pawnbrokers’ Statute No. 03 of 2001
of Western Provincial Council shall be repealed.
64 Whatever contrary has been stated in this Statute-
(a) A license issued within the Western Province under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance No.13
of 1942 or Pawnbroker’s Statute of Western Province Provincial Council No. 03 of
2001 
 shall be deemed as a license issued under this Statute;
(b) Until orders formulated under this Statute be substituted In place of any order
formulated under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance No. 13 of 1942 or Pawnbroker’s Statute
of Western Province Provincial Council No. 03 of 2001, such regulations shall be
considered as regulations formulated under this Statute;
(c) A lawsuit filed under Pawnbroker’s Ordinance No. 13 of 1942 or Pawnbroker’s Statute
of Western Province No. 03 of 2001 and was pending till the immediate date previous
to the specified date and a decision given by a court of law in such lawsuit shall be
considered, as the situation requires, as a case filed under this Statute or a decision
given for a lawsuit filed under this Statute.
Format preparation
Official
confidentiality
Servant or agent may
function on
pawnbroker's behalf
Assigning powers
etc., under the statute
Shop keepers deemed
as Pawnbrokers
Criminal Code of
Procedure No. 15 of
1979 to be applicable
Pawnbrokers' Statute
No. 03 of 2001
repealed
Interim provisions

<!-- page 19 -->

19AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
CHAPTER XIII
INTERPRETATIONS
65. In this Statute, unless the context otherwise requires-
“Specified date” means the date of enforcement of this Statute.
“Commissioner of Revenue” means the Western Provincial Commissioner of Revenue appointed
to execute the functions of this Statute.
“Foreign Company” means any company or board of individuals incorporated outside Sri Lanka
and is any company or board of individuals that-
(a) Establish a business place within Sri Lanka after specified date.
(b) Establish a business place within Sri Lanka before specified date and continuously
maintain a business place in Sri Lanka.
“Pawnbroker” means a person who, not being a registered bank, is conducting a pawning business
on certain conditions with a stated of implied consent or acknowledgement that articles
will be released later or purchased back, or otherwise under a consent or acknowledgement
reasonably implying such consent or acknowledgement according to nature and
characteristics of the transaction under which articles are retained as security for advance
money to be paid for sale or purchase of such articles; and maintains a business place for
that purpose where articles are purchased or retained for payment of certain amount of
money or advances or lending money on behalf of such articles.
“Pawner” means a person who hands over an article for the purpose of pawning to a person engaged
in the pawning business;
“Sri Lankan Citizen” means a person who is a Citizen of Sri Lanka according to a certain law
enforced contemporarily in relation to citizenship.
“District” means the Administrative district
“Foreign Firm” means a firm :–
(i) Consisting of two partners, one of whom is not a citizen of Sri Lanka or both of
whom are not Sri Lankans; or
(ii) Consisting of more than two partners at least one of whom is not a citizen of Sri
Lanka.
“Month” means a period of 30 days for the purpose of charging profits and interest.
“Calendar Year” means the period commencing from the 
1st of January and ending on
31st December of every year.
“Financial Year” means the period commencing from April  01st of every year and ends in 31st of
March of the following year.
“Person” means a single person or board of persons, where such board of persons constitutes a
corporation, all the directors and officers of the said corporation and where such board of
persons constitute a business institution, all the partners of the said business institution or
where it being a non-business institution and non-incorporated company the management
and all the officers of the said company who are responsible for its management and
administration.
Interpretations

<!-- page 20 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
20A
“Pledge” means an article pawned with a pawn broker.
“Instrument” means a document signed between other persons in relation to conveyance of pawning
business.
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance in the Western Province
Provincial Council.
“Provincial Council” means the Provincial Council of the Western Province.
“Chief Secretary’” means the Chief Secretary of the Western Provincial Council.
“Provincial Council Fund” means the Provincial Council Fund of the Western Province Provincial
Council established under Section 19 of the Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987.
“Business Place’” means a house, store house, company, joint business, partnership business, and
place where business activities are carried out and any of the places where such branches
are maintained.
“Unfinished Goods or Materials” includes any goods of any manufacture, either mixed or separate
or any materials, whatsoever, intended for composing or manufacture of any goods after
such goods or materials are put into state of manufacture, and before the same are completed
or finished for the purpose of wearing or consumption.
“Arrears” includes the portion not being set off from the amount of money recoverable or payable
under this statute.
“Defaulter” means a person who prevents from accomplishing the functions specified by this
statute and/or a person accomplishing function that has been prohibited by this statute.
“Executor” means an executor of a deceased person or an administrator and includes -
(a) A person who is in custody of a deceased person’s property or who makes use of
such property;
(b) A person who has made submission to District Court to issue or to re-stamp a probate
certificate or administrator certificate in respect of the estate of a deceased person
or a person entitled to make a submission to District Court thereof; or
(c) Trustee who acts upon a trusteeship of a last will of the person who established the
trust;
(d) A person whose name is included in the instruments consisting bonds, presented
under Section 46(1) of this Statute.
“Authorized Agent” means for the purpose of this Statute a person authorized in writing to act on
his behalf and an individual who is -
(a) A relation of his in respect of an individual ;
(b) A partner in respect of partnership business ;
(c) A director or secretary in respect of company ;

<!-- page 21 -->

21AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
(d) A member of a board of individuals in respect of a board of individuals;
(e) a member of the Sri Lanka Chartered Accountants Institute;
(f) An Attorney at law.
“A person of physical and mental disability” means an under-aged person, a person suffering
from lunacy, mental retardation or madness.
“Registered Bank” means a licensed special Bank as interpreted in the Banking Act, No. 30
of 1988.
“Chief Partner” means, from among the active partners residing in Sri Lanka-
(a) the partner named first in the partnership business agreement;
(b) in the absence of such agreement, the partner who stands alone by general
name in the partnership business or stands foremost to other partners by name
or initials; or
(c) the partner named first in the statement made under Section 04 of the Business
Names Act, No. 07 of 1987.
“Caretaker” includes a custodian, guardian, guardian of property , manager or other person
bearing organization, control or management of certain property on behalf of certain
person.
66. In the event of any inconsistency in the Sinhala, Tamil and English text of this Statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistancy

<!-- page 22 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
22A
(Section 04)
FIRST  SCHEDULE
Form - “A”
LICENSE
Number :..............................................................
I,................................................................................................................................................................................................the
Commissioner of Revenue of Western Province according to Section 04 of the  Pawnbrokers’ Statute No...................of
2015 and as per powers assigned to me by the aforesaid Statute do hereby authorize Mr./Mrs./Ms................................. ....
........................................................................................................................................................................................................
........................................................................................................................................................Company residing/located at
................................................................................................................................................................................to carryon the
business of pawning under the name of ..................................................................................................................................at
............................................................................................................................... ...................................
............................................................................................................................... ...................................
According to the provisions of the Pawnbrokers’ Statute of the Western Provincial  Council, No ..................................of
2015 and issue the license to that effect.
The period of validity of this license terminates on 31.12............................
................................................................
Commissioner of Revenue/on behalf of
Date :......................................................

<!-- page 23 -->

23AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
(Section 17)
 Form - “B”
PLEDGE BOOK
Pledge Book of ...................................................................Pawnbroker of ...................................................................
No. of date of issue of the pawn tickets
No. of pledge in the month
Amount of Loan upon each article
Name of pawner
Address of pawner
Description of each article pawned
Weight of article and Carat amount, if
jewellery
Value of each article pawned
Date of redemption
Name and address of person redeeming
Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.
(Section 17)
 Form - “C”
SALE  BOOK OF PLEDGES
Date and place of sale :
................................................................................
Name and address of Auctioneer :
................................................................................
No. of
pledge as
in Pledge
Book
Date of
Pawning
Name of
Pawner
Amount of
Loan
Outstanding
Interest
Amount
Amount for
which each
pledge was
sold by
Auctioneer
Name and
address of
purchase
Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts. Rs. Cts.
Profit or Interest charged upon each
article

<!-- page 24 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
24A
(Section 18)
 Form - “D”
PAWN   TICKET
Licence No. .................................................
No :....................................................
Date :.................................................
........................................................................................................................................................................(Name of Pawner),
the undersigned residing at ..........................................................................................................................................................
.................................................................................................................................................................. (Address of Pawner)
and bearing the National Identity Card 
No./Passport No. of ..................................................................................................
has pawned with the undersigned ...............................................................................................................................................
................................................................................................................................................ (Name of Pawnbroker) residing at
.........................................................................................................................................................(Address of Pawnbroker) on
behalf of .......................................................................................................................................................................(Name of
Pawnbroker of his Representative),............................................................................................. (Nature of pledge) weighing
............................................. and valued Rs................................................................as per current market value and obtained
Rs ............................. Under an annual interest of ........................... % on this day.
...................................................... .....................................
Signature of Pawnbroker or his Servant Name of Pawnbroker
or Representative
.....................................
National Identity Card No.
(to be signed by Pawner at the time of redeeming pledge)
The aforementioned pledge was redeemed by me after paying the total amount and interest relevant to it.
........................
Signature of pawner.
Date :...............................................

<!-- page 25 -->

25AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
(Section 28)
 Form - “E”
RECEIPT
Licence No. .................................................
On behalf of the loan amount of Rs.  ................................................................................................................. lent on pledge
No....................................................received a total sum of Rs. .............................................................including the interest
of Rs..............................................calculated on the said loan amount from ........../.........../20........ to ........../.........../20........,
and Rs..................... . as the tax amount.
Signature
..............................................................
Name
...............................................................
Name and Address
of the Institution
...............................................................
(Stamp)
Date :................................
(Section 15(2), 18(2) and 19)
SECOND  SCHEDULE
Rate of Interest
The rate of interest on every rupee or a fraction of a rupee lent shall be two cents for every month or part thereof.
Payment of Tax
Where a tax under any written law is payable by the Pawnbroker on a loan granted upon a pledge, such tax may be recovered
from the pawner.
Restricting recovery of entranced interest
On behalf of a loan lent on a pledge, the rate of interest agreed upon by the pawnbroker at the date of pledge shall be valid
for 24 months from the date of such pledge. Eventhough any increase in interest rate is experienced within the said 24
months’ time, such increase is not applicable to the said transaction.
If the pledge relating to the pawn ticket is not redeemed within a period of twenty four months from the day of pawning, it
is liable to be sold by Public Auction.
If there be any surplus profit realized at the sale, such profit amount shall be paid to the pawner by the pawnbroker.

<!-- page 26 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2015'07'03
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE    EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE DEMOCRA TIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 03.07.2015
26A
(Section 29)
THIRD  SCHEDULE
Regulations relating to Auction of Pledges
1. All the pledges put on auction, shall be disclosed by the auctioneer at least prior to 2 hours from the
commencement of the said auction so as to enable the public to view such.
2. A name list starting the following facts about the pledges shall be published by the auctioneer.
a) Name and place of business of the pawnbroker;
b) Month in which the said pledge was auctioned;
c) No. of each pledge, according to how it was entered in the pledge book at the time 
 of auctioning of such
pledge.
3. The relevant auction shall take place and business premises of pawn broker.
4. The notice pertaining to the auction shall at least be published at one time in three types 
of newspapers published
in Sinhala, Tamil and English languages and in addition, shall be displayed at public places by means of notices
throughout the area where the auction will be held. Furthermore, the said notices shall comprise the following
stated matters.
a) Name and place of business of the pawnbroker:
b) Date, time and venue of relevant auction:
c) The pledges not redeemed within which time period are included in that auction.
5. The notice stated in above No.4 shall be published on a Sunday preceding 07 days to the date specified for
holding of such auction and/or from such Sunday onwards.
6. If the pawnbroker bids at an auction, the auctioneer shall not act in any way favourable to the 
 said pawnbroker.
7. Within 14 days of such auction, a copy of the pledge list sold at that auction or the part of the list relevant to the
said pawnbroker’s pledges or a document stating the number of pledges and amount of money redeemed after
selling pledges of the said pawnbroker and having certified it as accurate by placing the auctioneer’s signature,
it shall be handed over to the pawnbroker by the auctioneer.
8. The pawnbroker shall keep safe every such name list at least for two year time period subsequent to such
auction.
07-900
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING ,  SRI LANKA.