

<!-- page 1 -->

PARLIAMENT  OF  THE  DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF
SRI  LANKA
BATTICALOA YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN’S
ASSOCIATION (INCORPORATION)
————————
[Bill No. 247]
————————
Presented by Hon. Pon. Selvarasa M. P. for Batticaloa District
on 06th June, 2013
(Published in the Gazette on May 27, 2013)
Ordered by Parliament to be printed
to incorporate the Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s Association
A
BILL
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5
Price : Rs. 6.00 Postage : Rs. 5.00
2—PL 007330—850 (06/2013)
————————

<!-- page 2 -->

1Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s
Association (Incorporation)
2—PL 007189—  75 (04/2013)
Preamble.
Short title.
5
10
15
20
25
AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE BATTICALOA YOUNG MEN’S
CHRISTIAN’S ASSOCIATION
WHEREAS a Association called and known as the “ Young
Men’s Christian’s Association of Batticaloa” has heretofore
been established at Batticalo for the purpose of achiving the
several objects and effectually carring out and transacting
all matters connected with the said association according to
the rules agreed to by its members:
AND WHEREAS the said Association has applied to be
incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage to grant
the application:
BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:—
1. This Act may be cited as the 
Batticaloa Young Men’s
Christian’s Association (Incorporation) Act, No.     of 2013.
2. From and after the date of commencement of this
Act, such and so many persons as now are members of
the 
Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s Association of
Batticaloa  (hereinafter referred to as the “Association”)
or shall hereafter be admitted  as members of the Corporation
hereby constituted, shall be a body corporate (hereinafter
referred to as “the Corporation”) with perpetual succession
under the name and style of the 
Batticaloa Young
Men’s Christian’s Association  and by that name may
sue and be sued in all courts, with full power and authority
to have and use a common seal and alter the same at
its pleasure.
3. The general objects for which the Corporation is
constituted is declared to be the promotion of the
spiritual,intellectual, social and physical welfare of all the
Children, Youth and general public of Batticaloa.
Incorporation
of the Young
Men’s
Christian’s
Association
of Batticaloa.
General
objects of the
Corporation.

<!-- page 3 -->

2 Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s
Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
4. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any other
written law, the Corporation shall have the power to do,
perform and execute all such acts, matters and things
whatsoever, as are necessary and desirable for the promotion
or furtherance of the objects of the Corporation, or any one
of them, including the power to open, operate and close
bank accounts, to borrow or raise money, with or without
security, to receive or collect grants and donations, to invest
its funds, and to engage, employ and dismiss officers and
servants required for the carrying out of the objects of the
Corporation.
5. (1) The affairs of the Corporation shall, subject to the
rules of the Corporation, be administered by a Board of
Directors consisting of such number of members as may be
provided for rules made in that behalf and elected in
accordance therewith.
(2) The first Board of Directors of the Corporation shall
be the members of the Board of Directors holding office on
the day immediately preceding the date of commencement
of this Act.
6. ( 1) It shall be lawful for the Corporation, from time
to time, at any general meeting of the Corporation and
by the majority of not less than three-fourths of  the
Active Members of the Corporation present and voting, to
make rules, not inconsistant with the provision of this Act,
or any other written law, for the management of the affairs of
the Corporation and the accomplishment of its objects.
(2) The rules of the Association in force on the date of
commencement of this Act, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or any other
written law, shall be deemed to be rules made by the
Corporation under this Act.
 (3) Any rule made y the Corportion may be amended or
rescinded in like manner as a rule may by made under
subsection (1).
Management
of the affairs
of the
Corporation.
General
powers of the
Corporation.
Rules of the
Corporation.
35

<!-- page 4 -->

3Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s
Association (Incorporation)
5
10
15
20
25
30
(4) The Members of the Corporation shall be subject ot
the rules of the Corporation.
7. All debts and liabilities of the Association existing
on the day preceding the date of commencement of this Act
shall be paid and discharged by the Corporation and all
debts due to and subscriptions and contributions payable
to, the Association on that date shall be paid to the
Corporation for the purposes of this Act.
8. The Corporation shall be able and capable in
law to acquire and hold any property, movable and
immovable, which may become vested in it by virtue of any
purchase, grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise,
and all such property shall be held by the Corporation for
the purposes of this Act and subject to the rules of the
Corporation, with full power to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.
9. The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed to
any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of such
number of members as may be provided for in the rules of
the Corporation who shall sign their names to the instrument
in token of their presence, and such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.
10. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or
affect the rights of the Republic, or of any body politic or
corporate or of any other persons, except such as are
mentioned in this Act and those claiming by, from or under
them.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.
Debts due by
and payable
to the
Foundation.
Corporation
may hold
property
movable and
immovable.
Saving of the
rights of the
Republic and
others.
Seal of the
Corporation.
Sinhala text
to prevail in
the event of
inconsistency.

<!-- page 5 -->

4 Batticaloa Young Men’s Christian’s
Association (Incorporation)
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the S
UPERINTENDENT, G OVERNMENT P UBLICATIONS B UREAU, D EPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following .