

<!-- page 1 -->

The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (IIA) – ADVERTISING
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
Page
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c. … 1124
    Page
Post - Vacant … … … - 
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
wxl 2"444 – 2025 cQ,s ui 04 jeks isl=rdod – 2025'07'04
No. 2,444 –  FRIDAY, JULY, 04, 2025
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES 
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  "GAZETTE"
ATTENTION  is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of acceptance of Notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of publication. 
All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times of applications in 
respect of Post-Vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be prepared by giving adequate time 
both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enabling those interested in the contents of such 
notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints made in respect of corrections pertaining to notification will 
not be entertained after three months from the date of publication.
All notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e. notices 
for publication in the weekly Gazette of 25th July, 2025, should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 11th July, 2025.
Electronic Transactions Act, No. 19 of  2006 - Section 9
"Where any Act or Enactment provides that any proclamation, rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other matter shall be 
published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification or other 
matter is published in an electronic form of the Gazette."
 S. D. Pandikorala (Acting),
 Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing, 
Colombo 08,
09th June, 2025.
 This Gazette can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1121 - B 082697 -  (07/2025)
Note.–    Part II of the Gazette No. 2443 of 27.06.2025 was not published. 
 


<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1122
1. General Qualifications required :
1:1  Every applicant must furnish satisfactory proof that he is a Sri 
Lankan. A ,Sri Lankan, is a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent or by registration 
as defined in the Sri Lanka Citizenship Act.
1:2  A candidate for any post for which the minimum educational  
qualification prescribed is a pass in  the Senior School Certificate  
Examination or equivalent or higher examination,  should have a pass 
in the Senior School Certificate Examination  or equivalent  or higher 
examination, should have a pass either in Sinhala language or Tamil 
language obtained,as the case may be, at the Senior School Certificate 
Examination or its equivalent if he is either a Sinhalese educated in Sinhala 
Medium or if he is a Tamil educated in Tamil Medium (This requirement 
will not apply to those who are in the public service from a date prior to 
January 01,1961, and who seek appointments to other posts in the public 
service).
1:3  Application from the ,New Entrants, Public Officers, who are not 
either Sinhala or Tamil educated, whose probationary trial appointments 
have been terminated for failure to pass the prescribed official language 
proficiency tests will not be entertained unless they have obtained the 
qualifications which could entitle them to seek exemptions from the highest 
proficiency test prescribed for the post.
2.  Conditions of Service-General :
2:1  All officers in the Public Service will be subject to the Financial 
Regulations, the Establishments Code, Departmental Orders or Regulations 
and any other Orders or Regulations that may be  issued by the Governments 
from time to time.
2:2  A Public officer may be required to furnish security in terms of the 
Public  Officers (Security) Ordinance, in such sum and in such manner as 
the secretary to the Ministry concerned may determine.
2:3  A Public Officer may be called upon to serve in any part of the 
Island. 
3. Conditions of Service applicable to Public Officers holding permanent 
appointments :
3:1  In addition to the conditions referred to in Section 2 above Public 
Officer holding permanent appointments will be subject to the following 
further conditions:
3:1:1  All appointments will be on probation for a period of 3 years 
unless a longer period is considered necessary in respect of any post. Any 
appointment may be terminated at any time during the period of probation 
without a reason being assigned.
3:1:2  All public officers are required to conform to the provisions of the 
Chapter IV of the Constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri 
Lanka and any other laws, regulations or rules that may be made from time 
to time to give effect to the Language Policy of the Government.
3:1:3  All Public officers who have not entered the Public Service either  
in Sinhala Medium or in Tamil Medium are required to acquire a working 
knowledge in one of the official languages.
3:1:4  Confirmation at the expiry of the period of probation of an officer 
who entered the Public Service in a medium other than Sinhala or  Tamil 
will depend, inter alia, on the passing of the Grade 1 Proficiency Test in one 
of the Official Languages within one year; Grade II Proficiency  Test within 
two years, and Grade III Proficiency  Test (where applicable) within  three  
years from the date of appointment.
Faliure to pass a test within the prescribed period will result in the 
suspension of increments. Suspension will be converted to a stoppage if 
the test is not passed within a further period  of six months beyond the 
prescribed period such stoppage operating until the test is passed or until 
such time as the provisions of Section 3:1:6  below  apply.  
3:1:5 Such officers should, on receiving appointment, be given facilities 
on full pay, for a period of 6 months to obtain proficiency in one of the official 
languages. He will thereafter,  be required to  sit the relevant  proficiency 
examination and if he does not pass he will be given  the opportunity to pass 
the examination within a  period of 2 years immediately after the period of 
6 months on full pay, while  he performs his normal duties. 
3:1:6 If he fails to pass the examination  in this prescribed period of                               
2  1/2 years his services will be terminated. 
3:1:7 A Public Officer already confirmed in permanent  post in the Public 
Service will not normally be required to serve the period of probation on 
being appointed to another permanent  post in the Public Service. Such 
Officers may in the  first instance be appointed  to act in the new post for a 
specified  period with a view to testing him in his new post.
3:1:8 Selected candidates  (Other than those already holding permanent 
or temporary appointments in the Public Service) who have already been 
medically  examined will be required  to undergo a medical examination 
by a Government  Medical Officer to test their physical fitness to  serve in 
any part of the Island. 
4. Terms of Engagement :
4:1 Public officers appointed to permanent and pensionable posts should 
contribute to the ‘Widows and Orphans’ Pension Scheme from their salary 
an amount equivalent to the percentage the Government requires to recover 
from their salary.
4:2 Public officers  appointed to permanent or temporary posts on 
Provident Fund basis will be required to contribute  6% of their  consolidated 
salary to the Public Service  Provident Fund.  The Government will 
contribute as its share of contributions an amount equal to 150% of the 
compulsory contributions credited to the fund at the close  of the Financial 
Year. 
4:3 Officers who hold pensionable  appointments  in the Public Service 
and who are released for appointments  to pensionable posts  in the 
Local Government Service and those officers in the Local Government  
Service  who hold pensionable  appointments and who are released for 
appointments  to pensionable posts in the Public Service will be allowed 
pensionability  in their posts in the Local Government  Service and Public 
Service respectively.
4:4 Regular Force personnel in the Army, Navy and Air Force  who 
are released for appointments to posts in the  Public Service  which are 
pensionable under the Minutes on Pension will be allowed pensionability in 
their posts in the  Public Service. Notwithstanding anything  to the contrary 
in these Minutes the unforefeited full pay service of any member of the 
Armed Forces who is released  to accept an appointment as a Public Officer 
in a post which has been declared to be pensionable under these Minutes 
shall be reckoned for the purpose of any pension or gratuity payable under 
these Minutes. 
5. Serving Officers in the Public Service : 
5 :1  Applications from officers of the Public Service who possess all 
the necessary qualifications must be forwarded through the Heads of  their 
respective  Departments.  In the case of applications from Public Officers 
holding post in the permanent establishment in the Public  Service. Heads 
of Departments in forwarding such applications should  state  whether  the 
applicants  could  be released or not to take up the new appointment, if 
selected.
5 :2 Candidates may be required to present  themselves for interview at 
an appointed  time and place.  No travelling or other expenses will be paid 
in this connection.
5 :3 Anyone desiring to recommended a candidate should do so by 
giving  a testimonial. Any  form of canvassing or any attempt to influence 
the selection  of a candidate will disqualify such candidates.
5 :4 Any statement in the application  which is found to be incorrect will 
render the applicant liable to disqualification if the inaccuracy is discovered 
before the selection and to dismissal if discovered after the selection. 
5 :5 Application not conforming in every respect with the requirements 
of the advertisement will be rejected. 
6. Definition of Salary for the purpose of Eligibility :
6 :1 Salary for purposes of eligibility means only the consolidated salary 
and does not include any action salary, allowances etc. 
7. New National Policy on Recruitment and Promotions : 
Recruitment  and Promotion in the Public Service, Provincial Public 
Service, Public Corporate Sector and Companies fully owned by the 
Government will be done in accordance with the policy laid down in the 
Public Administration Circulars No. 15/90 of 09.03.1990, 15/90 (I) of 
25.03.1990 & 15/90 (ii) of 15.06.1990 with effect from 01.01.1990 subject 
to amendments that will be done by subsequent Public Administration 
Circulars.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1123
Rules  and   Instructions   for  Candidates
,All candidates are bound to act in conformity with the provisions of the 
Examinations Act, No. 25 of 1968.,
All candidates are bound to abide by the rules given below. A candidate 
who violates any of these rules is liable to one or more of the following 
punishments at the discretion of the Commissioner of Examinations :—
 (i) Suspension from the whole or part of the examination or  one subject 
or a part thereof ;
 (ii)  Disqualification from one subject  or  from  the whole examination ;
 (iii)  Debarment  from  appearing  for  an  examination  for  a period of one 
year or  two years ;
 (iv) Debarment for life ;
 (v) Suspension of the certificate for a specified period ;
 (vi) Reporting the candidate’s conduct to his Superiors or handing over  
the candidate to the Police or making a complaint to the Police over 
his action.
The Commissioner reserves  himself the right to take action at any time 
before the Examination or at any stage of it or thereafter, and his decision 
shall be deemed final.  In the case of examinations  for recruitment to the 
Public Service, the decision of  Commissioner of Examinations shall be 
subject to the Supervision of the Public Service Commission.
1. All candidates  should  conduct themselves  in a quiet manner in and 
around the Examination Hall so as not to disturb or obstruct the Supervisor, 
his assistants or the other candidates. They should enter and leave the 
Examination Hall as quietly as possible.
2. Candidates should obey the Supervisor. Therefore, when the 
Examination is in progress and before the commencement of the 
Examination as well as immediately after the end of the Examination they 
should act in accordance with the instructions of the Supervisor and his 
assistants.
3. Under no circumstances whatsoever will a candidate be allowed into 
the Examination Hall after the lapse of half an hour after the commencement 
of a paper. No candidate will be permitted to leave the hall till after half an 
hour from the time of commencement of the paper. Candidates who come 
late for Practical and Oral Examinations are liable to be refused admission.
4. Every candidate should sit at the  desk  bearing his/her index number 
and not at any other desk. Unless with the permission of the supervisor no 
candidate should change his/her seat. The occupation of a seat other than 
the one assigned to him by a candidate is liable to be considered as an act 
with a dishonest intention. 
5. Absolute silence should  be maintained in the Examination Hall. A 
candidate is forbidden to speak to, communicate with or have dealings with 
any person within or outside the Examination Hall other than a member 
of the Examination Hall Staff. If there is an urgent need for a candidate 
to communicate with another, prior permission must be obtained from the 
supervisor. 
6. A candidate’s answer script is identified only by the Index Number 
and his/her name should not be written on the answer script. Another 
candidate’s index number appearing on the answer  script  of a candidate is 
considered as an attempt to commit a dishonest act. Answer scripts bearing 
an index number that is difficult to decipher is liable to be rejected. 
7. Candidates should  write  only on the  paper provided and should 
not write anything on the blotting paper, question paper, desk or any other 
place. Non conformity with this rule could be taken as an act with dishonest 
intentions.
8. Any paper or answer book supplied should not be torn up, crushed, 
folded or erased. Each and every sheet of paper used for rough work 
should be tied up with the answer script. It should be a part of the answer 
script. (Such rough work should be neatly crossed out.) Anything written 
inside the Examination Hall should not be taken out. If a question has been 
answered  twice, the unnecessary answer should be neatly crossed out. 
Failure to abide by these requirements may be considered as an attempt 
to cheat.
9. When answering questions in Mathematics the submission of correct 
answers with incorrect working or with no working at all and in art if 
the work of art is similar or very close in resemblance to that of another 
candidate in concept, in form or in execution it is liable to be considered 
as a dishonest act.
10. The removal of any paper or stationery supplied to candidates out of 
the Examination Hall is prohibited. All such material remains the property 
of the Commissioner of Examinations. Breach of this rule shall be liable to 
be considered an act with dishonest intention.
11. While in the Examination Hall a candidate should not have with him 
or near him any book, note book, pocket note book, exercise book, sheet 
of paper or pieces of paper other than the stationery supplied to him. Nor 
should any handbag, travelling  bag or parcel other than the candidate’s 
boxes of colours and boxes of instruments where necessary or any file 
cover, card board pad, folded newspapers, brown papers should be brought 
into the Examination Hall. Breach of this rule is a punishable act. 
12. A candidate  is strictly forbidden to keep with him any book, note 
book or a sheet of paper with written notes once inside the Examination 
Hall. Should the Supervisor so requires, each candidate is bound to 
declare everything he has with him/her. Breach of this requirement shall be 
considered as an attempt to commit an act of dishonesty. 
13. Candidates are forbidden to copy or attempt to copy from the answer 
script of another candidate, a book, paper containing notes or any other 
source. A candidate should not attempt to look at the answer script of 
any another candidate. A candidate should refrain from helping another 
Candidate and also from getting help from   another   candidate or a person. 
Every completed answer sheet should be kept underneath the sheet on 
which the answer is being written. Sheets of writing paper should not be 
strewn all over the desk.
14. A candidate will under no circumstance whatsoever be allowed to 
leave the Examination Hall even for a brief period during the course of the 
paper. However in an emergency if a candidate needs to leave the hall, he/
she shall be allowed to do under the surveillance of the supervisor or his 
assistant. He/she shall be subject to search before leaving the hall as well 
as before re-entering it. 
15. Impersonation while answering a paper or before the commencement 
of the Examination is a punishable offence. Tampering with identity cards, 
presenting false identity cards or tampering with someone’s identity are 
also such offences. Candidates are warned not to commit such offences. 
16. Assistance given to a candidate in a dishonest manner by a person 
who is not a candidate, is considered a serious offence.
Candidates should adhere to the following instructions for their own 
safety :–
(i)  Be  at the Examination Hall well in time. It is sufficient to be at 
the Examination Hall 10 or 15 minutes before the commencement of each 
paper. If you have any doubt as to the location of the Examination Hall, 
make inquiries on a day prior to the date of Examination and be sure of its 
location.
(ii)  In case of any doubt regarding your entry for a paper or eligibility 
to sit a paper you should bring it to the notice of the Supervisor and get 
your doubts cleared. Failure to do so may result in your candidature for the 
subject being cancelled.
(iii)  When appearing for the Examination, candidates should produce 
their identity cards at every paper they sit. If a candidate fails to produce 
identification documents at the Examination Hall, his candidature is liable 
to be cancelled. In case a candidate forgets to bring such documents into 
the Examination Hall, it should be brought to the notice of the Supervisor 
and arrangements should be made to produce them before the Examination 
concludes.
(iv)  Standard stationery (i.e.  writing paper, graph paper, ledger paper, 
precis paper) will be supplied. If you receive any stationery that is different 
from the kind generally distributed or distributed to the others it should be 
promptly brought to the notice of the supervisor. No paper other than those 
issued at the Examination Hall should be used for answering questions. 
Excess paper and other material should be left on the desk, in good 
condition. When log tables are supplied they should be used with care and 
left on the desk when you leave.
(v)  Candidates should bring their own pens, pencils, bottles of ink, 
erasers, pieces of cloth, rulers, geometrical instruments, coloured pencils, 
coloured chalk, etc.
(vi) When you start answering you should promptly write down your 
Index Number and the name of the Examination on each sheet of paper 
used. Write neatly and legibly on both sides of the paper. Leave a blank  
line after the answer to each part of a question. After the answer to a full 
question leave one or several blank lines. Do not crowd in your work. 
 (vii)  The left-hand margin of the answer sheet is set apart for you to enter 
the number of the question you answer. The right hand margin is reserved 
for the examiner’s use and nothing should be written there. Number your 
answers correctly as incorrect numbering leads to confusion.
 (viii)  You should read carefully the instructions given at the  head of the 
question paper, with regard to the compulsory questions and the manner in 
which the other questions should be selected. Disregard to these instructions 
is often liable to affect you adversely.
 (ix)  When Mathematics Questions are answered, give all details of 
calculations and any roughwork, in their serial order as part of the working 
of the problem. Necessary sketches, diagrams and figures should be 
accurate and sufficiently large. In an  answer running into serveral pages if 
reference must be made to a diagram drawn in an earlier page, that diagram 
should be drawn repeatedly.
 (x) At the end of each paper, arrange your answer sheets  in the order you 
answered the questions. Then using the piece of twine supplied, tie them 
up at  the top left hand corner. Do not  tie up at the top right hand corner. 
 (xi) You should personally handover your answer script  to the Supervisor 
or to an Invigilator. Or else remain in your seat till it is collected.  Failure 
to do so may result in the loss of your script and your being treated as an 
absentee for the paper. On no account should your script be handed over to 
a peon or an attendant.
 (xii)  If it becomes necessary for you to speak to the Supervisor or an 
Invigilator, or if you need stationery, remain in your seat and raise your 
hand.
Commissioner General of Examinations. 
Department of Examinations,
Pelawat ta, Battaramulla.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1124
Examinations, Results of Examinations &c.
MINISTRY  OF  PUBLIC  ADMINISTRATION,  PROVINCIAL  COUNCILS  AND  LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT
Open Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer (Grade III and Training 
Grade) in the Sri Lanka Technological Service under the Home Affairs Division of the Ministry of Public 
Administration, Provincial Councils and Local Government- 2025
APPLICATIONS  are called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lankan for the Open Competitive Examination for the 
recruitment to the above post existing under the Home Affairs Division of the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial 
Councils and Local Government. This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination in 
the month of October, 2025 in the Colombo District. The Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial 
Councils and Local Government shall have the power to postpone or cancel this examination.
 The application is published on “Online Applications -Recruitment Exams/E.B. Exams” under “Our Services” in 
the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka - www.doenets.lk and applications can only be submitted 
online. Receipt of online applications will be opened on 7 th  July 2025 at 9:00 a.m. and will be closed on 7 th  August 
2025 at 9:00 p.m..
 Officers, who are currently serving in the Public Service /Provincial Public Service, should submit a copy of the 
application to the Head of the Institution for inclusion in the personal file and,  they must present a copy of the 
application certified by the Head of the Institution  and  a letter confirming their service issued by the Head of the 
Institution,  when they will be called for the interview.
1.0. Qualifications for Recruitment :  
Applicants shall have fulfilled all the qualifications for recruitment to this post in every respect as at the closing date of 
application mentioned in this notification.
1.1. General Qualifications :
1.1.1. Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
1.1.2. Applicants should be of excellent character.
1.1.3. Any person holding priesthood in any religion/religious sect will not be eligible to sit this examination. 
1.1.4. The candidate shall not possess any disqualification mentioned in Chapter V of the Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission.
1.2. Physical and Mental Fitness :
 The applicants should have sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and perform 
duties in the post.
1.3. Age limit :  
 Should not be less than 18 years of age and not more than 30 years of age as the closing date of application. 
1.4.  Educational and Professional Qualifications :
 
1.4.1. Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service :
1.4.1.1. Educational Qualifications :   
• Should have passed GCE (A/L) Examination with three (03) subjects in Science/ Mathematics 
Stream including Pure Mathematics /Applied Mathematics /Combined Mathematics and 
Physics, in one  sitting 
and
• Should have passed GCE (O/L) Examination, in six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics, and one other subject, in one sitting. 

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1125
1.4.1.2. Professional Qualifications
Applicants should have obtained one of the following professional qualifications along with 
educational qualifications mentioned above
• National Diploma in Technology awarded by University of Moratuwa or Hardy Institution 
in Ampara,
     or
• National Diploma in Engineering awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial Training 
Authority,
     or
• Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by Ministry of Education and Higher 
Education,
or
• Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka,
or
• Successful completion of Part I of the Engineering Examination conducted by Sri Lanka 
Engineering Institute 
or
• Having completed National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) level 06 applicable to the field 
of employment
or
• Possession of other technical qualifications that are deemed fully equivalent in all aspects 
to the aforementioned technical qualifications, as recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission, following consultation with the Ministry of Education and the 
institutions that issue the above-mentioned technical certificates.
1.4.2. Training Grade (One year training) 
1.4.2.1. Educational Qualifications -
• Should have passed GCE (A/L) Examination with three (03) subjects in Science / Mathematics 
Stream including Pure Mathematics/ Applied Mathematics/ Combined Mathematics and 
Physics, in one sitting.
 
and
• Should have pass GCE (O/L) Examination, in six (06) subjects with credit passes for Sinhala/
Tamil/English language, Science, Mathematics, and one other subject, in one sitting.
1.4.2.2. Professional Qualifications
 
Applicants should have obtained one of the following professional qualifications along with 
educational qualifications mentioned above
• Having possessed a National Technical Certificate by successfully following a course in 
a field applicable to the post offered by a Technical College recognized by Tertiary and 
V ocational Education Commission. (e.g. National Technical Certificate Civil/Electrical/ 
Mechanical) 
or
• Having obtained the relevant certificate by successfully completing a one year fulltime 
course on draftsmanship in a Technical College recognized by Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission 

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1126
or
• Having obtained the relevant certificate by for successfully completing National Certificate 
Course for Industrial Technicians in a field applicable to the post, offered by Technical 
College recognized by Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.
or
• Possession of other technical qualifications that are deemed fully equivalent in all aspects 
to the aforementioned technical qualifications, as recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission, following consultation with the Ministry of Education and the 
institutions that issue the above-mentioned technical certificates.
2.0. Method of Recruitment 
 
2.1. In the recruitment of Technical Officer Grade III and Training Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service on open 
basis, recruitment to Grade III will be done initially, and in the event that there is not enough number of applicants 
who qualify for recruitment to Grade III, the remaining vacancies will be filled by the candidates who satisfy the 
qualifications applicable to the Training Grade.
2.2. Recruitments will be made on the results of written competitive examination and an interview. Suitable candidates 
will be selected by an interview a number of applicants equivalent to the number of recruitments to be made as 
per the existing vacancies based on the order of merit of the aggregate marks secured by the applicants who have 
passed the written examination. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium, and all the 
question papers shall be answered in one and the same language. 
2.3. Written Examination 
Subjects  Time Duration Maximum marks Amount of marks 
required to pass the 
examination 
Intelligence Test  01 hour 100 40
Technology Paper 03 hours  100 40
2.4. Syllabus of the Written Examination 
Name of the question paper Syllabus 
Intelligence Test  The paper will consists of questions to assess the applicant’s 
logical reasoning, analytical thinking and decision-making 
ability .
Technology Paper The paper will consists of questions to assess the 
capabilities that the applicant should acquire in with regard 
to principles of building construction, ability to prepare 
and read plans for construction works, ability to prepare 
estimates, water supply, drainage mechanisms and waste 
disposal procedures.    
2.5. The priority list for the interview will be prepared in the order of the aggregate of marks secured by the applicants 
who will obtain 40% of marks or more for each question paper above.

<!-- page 7 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1127
2.6. The applicant shall bring the geometrical equipment and other accessories required for answering the above 
Technology paper to the examination hall.
2.7. The interview board will be appointed by the appointing authority, and marks will not be given for this 
interview, and it will be conducted only for the purpose of verifying the qualifications. 
3.0. Recruitment to Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service following the completion of 
training period
3.1. Applicants who have been enrolled to the Training Grade, will be recruited to Technical Officer Grade III of 
Sri Lanka Technological Service, after they have successfully completed the training period and submitted 
the certificate issued by the institution nominated by the Secretary to the Ministry that they have passed the 
examination.
3.2. The applicants who fail to complete the examination held at the end of the training period shall have the 
opportunity to extend their training period for a period not more than 06 months. The service of candidates 
who fail the repeat examination held at the end of the extended period will be terminated. 
4.0. Monthly Salary Scale or Allowance 
4.1. In terms of Schedule II of the Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025, the monthly 
salary scale applicable to the post of Technical Officer Grade III will be Rs. 52,250-800 x10-1,119 x 
11-1,320x10-1,350x10-Rs.100,040/-(MN-3-2025). The holder of this post will also be entitled to other 
allowances paid by the government from time to time.
4.2. In terms of the Schedule VI of the above-mentioned Public  Administration Circular No. 10/2025, Applicants 
recruited to the Training Grade will be paid a monthly allowance during the training period.
5.0. Conditions of Employment 
5.1   The selected candidates will be appointed to this post subject to the general conditions governing the 
appointments of public service, Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, provisions of the 
Establishments Code, Financial Regulations, provisions of the recruitment procedure for Supervisory 
Management Assistant- Technical Services Category as approved by the Public Service Commission, and 
the amendments made thereto and will be made from time to time. 
 
5.2. Also, the selected applicants will be attached to the District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats under 
the Home Affairs Division at the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration, 
Provincial Councils, and Local Government. In the same way, they will be subject to serving in any part of 
the Island and receiving training. 
5.3. The post of Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service is permanent and pensionable 
(subject to future policy decisions taken by the government regarding the pension scheme). The appointee 
shall make contributions to the Widows and Orphans Pension Scheme/ Widowers and Orphans Pension 
Scheme and pay the contributions for the scheme as may be prescribed by the government from time to 
time.
5.4. The appointment of Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service is subject to a 
probationary period of three (03) years, and the appointee, in terms of the Public Administration Circular 
No. 18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and the Circulars incidental thereto, shall obtain official language 
proficiency before passing the three (03) years of being appointed to the post. The appointee shall pass the 
first efficiency bar examination before passing the three (03) years of being appointed to the post.
5.5. The Technical Officers of Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service shall perform the inspection of 
work for all new constructions, renovations, and repairs and the designing of plans related to constructions, 
the preparation of estimates, the supervision of maintenance works, the checking and recommending of 

<!-- page 8 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1128
documents submitted for payments and the other duties assigned in relation to the post under the Secretary 
to the Ministry in charge of the subject of Home Affairs/District Secretary/Divisional Secretary. 
6.0.  Method of Application :- 
6.1. The Online Examination Application should strictly be filled in English language. Once the Examination 
Department receives application submitted online, the applicant will be notified via a text message 
(SMS) to the mobile phone number used to access the system, or via email, whether the application was 
accepted/not accepted by the Department of Examination as a valid application. Before completing the 
online application, download the instructions sheet prepared for this purpose. Instructions therein should 
be strictly followed. No alteration done after taking print-out the application will be considered as a valid 
modification. Incomplete applications will be rejected without any notice. 
6.2. It is mandatory to clearly indicate using the mark () in the relevant place whether the applicant expects 
to apply for the Technical Officer Grade III or Training Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service. 
 
6.3. The applicant must get the signature attested on the admission card and shall present the duly attested 
admission card to the supervisor on the day of the examination. Applicant without a signature-attested 
admission card will not be allowed to sit the examination. 
6.4. All applicants who have paid the prescribed examination fees and forward duly completed applications 
on or before the closing date of application will be issued   the admission card only via online method 
by the Commissioner General of Examinations on the presumption that only those who possess such 
qualifications as indicated in the gazette notification have, applied. Once the admission cards are issued, 
it will be published  through a web notice and the applicants will also be notified through a text message 
(SMS)  by the Department of Examination. An applicant, who has not received the admission card, 
should inquire thereof from the Institutional Examinations Organization Branch of the Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, as specified in the notification. In making such an inquiry, the name of the 
examination that applicant applied for, full name of the applicant, National Identity Card number and the 
address should be mentioned accurately. In the case of an applicant outside of Colombo, it will be more 
effective to send a letter of request along with the above information to the e-mail address indicated in 
this notification.  When inquiring so, it will be advantageous to keep a copy of the application and a copy 
of the receipt for payment of examination fee in applicant’s possession in order to prove any information 
requested by the Department of Examination.
6.5. The issuance of an admission card to an applicant should not be considered as an acceptance that he or 
she has fulfilled the required qualifications to sit the examination  or for the post.
6.6. If there are any amendments upon checking the admission card, such amendments should be made by 
requesting from the Department of Examinations. Requests made for amendments at the examination hall 
will be rejected. 
6.7. All applicants shall be bound to act in accordance with the general examination  rules and regulations 
specified in this Gazette.
7.0. Examination Fee :
 Examination fee is Rs. 600/= Payments should be made only under the following methods of payments provided 
by the online system. 
 (i) Any Bank Credit Card ;
 (ii) Any Bank Debit Card with the facility of Internet Transactions ;
 (iii) Online Banking Method of Bank of Ceylon ;
 (iv) Any Branch of the Bank of Ceylon.

<!-- page 9 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1129
Note :-
(a) The instructions on how to make payments through the above methods have been published under the technical 
instructions relevant to the examination on the website.
(b)  Receipt of payments will be notified via a text message (SMS) or e-mail. The full amount of the examination 
fee should be paid, and the applications with lesser or higher amount fees will be rejected. The Department of 
Examinations, Sri Lanka, will not be responsible for any error that occurs in making payment of examination 
fee through the above-mentioned paying methods.
(c)  The amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred to any other examination under any 
circumstances.
8.0.  Identity of the Candidates :   
8.1. The Candidates shall prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor for all the subjects they appear for 
at the examination in the examination hall.  the Following documents will be valid only for that purpose. 
 I. National Identity Card
 II. A valid Passport 
 III. A valid Driving License 
Furthermore, the candidate should enter the examination hall, that their identity can be verified, without 
covering their face and ears and also not wearing any electronic communication devices. The candidates, 
who refuse to confirm their identity in such a manner, will not be allowed to enter in to the examination 
hall. Further, the candidates shall remain without covering their faces and ears from the time they enter in 
the examination hall until they leave the hall at the end of the examination. 
9.0. Penalties for providing false information : 
9.1. If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess the required qualifications, his/her candidature will be annulled 
at any stage before, during, or after the examination. If it is revealed that a candidate has submitted any false 
information with his /her knowledge, or if he/she has willfully suppressed any important information, he/she will 
be dismissed from government service.
10.0. General Matters :
10.1. The candidates shall be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations for the purpose of conducting the examination and issuing the results. If any candidate will violate 
those rules and regulations, he or she will be liable to be subjected to punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
10.2. If there is any matter not provided for in this notification, such matter and anything with regard to filling 
these vacancies will be determined by the Public Service Commission and Secretary to the Ministry of Public 
Administration, Provincial Councils, and Local Government. 
10.3. In case of any inconsiste ncy among the texts of Sinhala, Tamil, and English languages published in this 
notification, the Sinhala text notification shall be treated as the correct one, and action will be taken accordingly. 
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,  
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial  
 Councils and Local Government. 
On 24th day of the month of June,  2025,
Colombo 05. 
 
07-585/1

<!-- page 10 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1130
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROVINCIAL COUNCILS AND LOCAL 
GOVERNMENT
Limited Competitive Examination for Recruitment to the Post of Technical Officer (Grade III and 
Training Grade) in the Sri Lanka Technological Service under the Home Affairs Division of the Ministry 
of Public Administration, Provincial Councils, and Local Government- 2025
APPLICATIONS are called from the qualified citizens of Sri Lankan for the limited Competitive Examination for the 
recruitment to the above post existing under the Home Affairs Division of the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial 
Councils, and Local Government. This examination will be conducted by the Commissioner General of Examination in 
the month of October, 2025 in the Colombo District. The Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial 
Councils, and Local Government shall have the power to postpone or cancel this examination.
 The application is published on “Online Applications -Recruitment Exams/E.B. Exams” under “Our Services” in 
the website of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka - www.doenets.lk  and applications can only be submitted 
online. Receipt of online applications will be opened on 7 th  July 2025 at 9:00 a.m. and will be closed on 7 th  August  
2025 at 9:00 p.m..
 Officers should submit a copy of the application to the Head of the Institution for Inclusion in the personal file and,  
they must present a copy of the application certified by the Head of the Institution  and  a letter confirming their 
service issued by the Head of the Institution,  when they will be called for the interview.
1.0. Qualifications for Recruitment :   
Applicants shall have fulfilled all the qualifications for recruitment to this post in every respect as at the closing date 
of application mentioned in this notification.
1.1. General Qualifications :
 1.1.1.  Should be a citizen of Sri Lanka.
 1.1.2. Applicants should be of excellent character.
 1.1.3. Any person holding a priesthood in any religion/religious sect will not be eligible to sit this examination. 
 1.1.4. The candidate shall not possess any disqualification mentioned in Chapter V of  the Procedural Rules of 
the Public Service Commission.
1.2. Physical and Mental Fitness : 
The applicants should have sufficient physical and mental fitness to serve in any part of Sri Lanka and perform 
duties in the post.
1.3. Age limit : 
 The age limit will not be applicable since the officers, who are currently serving in the  public service, will only 
be recruited on limited basis.
  
1.4. Educational Qualification, Professional Qualifications and Professional Experience :  
1.4.1. Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service
1.4.1.1. Educational Qualifications :  
• Should have passed GCE (O/L) Examination, in six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics, and Science in not more than two sitting.
1.4.1.2. Professional Qualifications :
Applicants should have obtained one of the following professional qualifications along with 
educational qualifications mentioned above.

<!-- page 11 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1131
• National Diploma in Technology awarded by University of Moratuwa or Hardy Institution in 
Ampara,
or
• National Diploma in Engineering awarded by National Apprentice and Industrial Training 
Authority,
      or
• Higher National Diploma in Engineering awarded by Ministry of Education and Higher 
Education,
 or
• Diploma in Technology awarded by the Open University of Sri Lanka,
or
• Successful completion of Part I of the Engineering Examination conducted by Sri Lanka 
Engineering Institute 
  or
• Having completed National V ocational Qualifications (NVQ) level 06 applicable to the 
field of employment 
     or
• Possession of other technical qualifications that are deemed fully equivalent in all aspects 
to the aforementioned technical qualifications, as recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission, following consultation with the Ministry of Education and the 
institutions that issue the above-mentioned technical certificates.
1.4.1.3. Experience 
• Having at least 05 years of active and satisfactory service experience in the relevant field in 
a permanent, departmental position in a primary or above service category in a Government 
Ministry/ Department/ District Secretariat/ Divisional Secretariat.
1.4.2. Training Grade (One year training) - 
1.4.2.1. Educational Qualifications 
• Should have passed GCE (O/L) Examination, in six (06) subjects with credit passes for 
Sinhala/Tamil/English Language, Mathematics, and Science in not more than two sitting.
1.4.2.2. Professional Qualifications –
Applicants should have obtained one of the following professional qualifications along with 
educational qualifications mentioned above
• Having possessed a National Technical Certificate by successfully following a course in 
a field applicable to the post offered by a Technical College recognized by Tertiary and 
V ocational Education Commission. (E.g. National Technical Certificate Civil/Electrical/ 
Mechanical) 
or
• Having obtained the relevant certificate by successfully completing a one year fulltime 
course on draftsmanship in a Technical College recognized by Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission. 
or
• Having obtained the relevant certificate by for successfully completing National Certificate 
Course for Industrial Technicians in a field applicable to the post, offered by Technical 
College recognized by Tertiary and V ocational Education Commission.

<!-- page 12 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1132
or
• Possession of other technical qualifications that are deemed fully equivalent in all aspects 
to the aforementioned technical qualifications, as recognized by the Tertiary and V ocational 
Education Commission, following consultation with the Ministry of Education and the 
institutions that issue the above-mentioned technical certificates.
1.4.2.3. Experience 
• Having at least 10 years of active and satisfactory service experience in the relevant field in 
a permanent, departmental position in a primary or above service category in a Government 
Ministry/ Department/ District Secretariat/ Divisional Secretariat.
2.0. Method of Recruitment :
2.1. In the recruitment of Technical Officer Grade III and Training Grade of Sri Lanka Technological Service on an 
limited basis, recruitment to Grade III will be done initially, and in the event that there is not enough number of 
applicants who qualify for recruitment to Grade III, the remaining vacancies will be filled by the candidates who 
satisfy the qualifications applicable to the Training Grade.
2.2. Recruitments will be made on the results of written competitive examination and an interview. Suitable candidates 
will be selected by an interview a number of applicants equivalent to the number of recruitments to be made as 
per the existing vacancies based on the order of merit of the aggregate marks secured by the applicants who have 
passed the written examination. The examination will be held in Sinhala, Tamil and English medium, and all the 
question papers shall be  answered in one and the same language. 
2.3. Written Examination  -
Subjects  Time Duration Maximum marks Amount of marks 
required to pass the 
examination 
Intelligence Test  01 hour 100 40
Technology Paper 03 hours 100 40
2.4. Syllabus of the Written Examination -
Name of the question paper Syllabus 
Intelligence Test  The paper will consists of questions to assess the applicant’s 
logical reasoning, analytical thinking and decision-making 
ability. 
Technology Paper The paper will consists of questions to assess the 
capabilities that the applicant should acquire in with regard 
to principles of building construction, ability to prepare 
and read plans for construction works, ability to prepare 
estimates, water supply, drainage mechanisms and waste 
disposal procedures.   
2.5. The priority list for the interview will be prepared in the order of the aggregate of marks secured by the applicants 
who will obtain 40% of marks or more for each question paper above.

<!-- page 13 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1133
2.6. The applicant shall bring the geometrical equipment and other accessories required for answering the above 
Technology paper to the examination hall.
2.7. The interview board will be appointed by the appointing authority, and marks  will not be given for this 
interview, and it will be conducted only for the purpose of verifying the qualifications. 
3.0. Recruitment to Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service following the completion of 
training period
3.1. Applicants who have been enrolled to the Training Grade, will be recruited to  Technical Officer Grade III 
of Sri Lanka Technological Service, after they have successfully completed the training period and submitted 
the certificate issued by the institution nominated by the Secretary to the Ministry that they have passed the 
examination.
3.2. The applicants who fail to complete the examination held at the end of the training period shall have the 
opportunity to extend their training for a period not  more than 06 months. The candidates who fail the repeat 
examination held at the  end of the extended period will be released to their previous posts.
4.0. Monthly Salary Scale 
4.1. In terms of Schedule II of the Public Administration Circular No. 10/2025 dated 25.03.2025, the monthly salary 
scale applicable to the post of Technical Officer Grade III will be Rs. 52,250-800 x10-1,119 x 11-1,320x10-
1,350x10-Rs.100,040/- (MN-3-2025). The holder of this post will also be entitled to other allowances paid by the 
government from time to time.
  
4.2. Applicants recruited to the Training Grade shall remain further on the same salary scale that they received 
previously, and an annual allowance equivalent to the initial salary increment of the recruitment grade of the 
Technical officer of the Sri Lanka Technological Service will be paid in addition to the basic salary until they 
will pass the examination conducted by an institution authorized by the Secretary to the Ministry at the end to the 
training course. 
5.0. Conditions of Employment 
5.1  The selected candidates will be appointed to this post subject to the general conditions governing the appointments 
of public service, Procedural Rules of the Public Service Commission, provisions of the Establishments Code, 
Financial Regulations, provisions of the recruitment procedure for Supervisory Management Assistant- Technical 
Services Category as approved by the Public Service Commission, and the amendments made thereto and will be 
made from time to time. 
  
5.2.   Also, the selected applicants will be attached to the District Secretariats and Divisional Secretariats under the 
Home Affairs Division at the discretion of the Secretary to the Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial 
Councils, and Local Government. Further, thy will be subject to serve and undergo training in any part of the 
Island. 
5.3. The post of Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service is permanent and pensionable (subject 
to future policy decisions taken by the Government regarding the pension scheme). The appointee shall make 
contributions to the Widows and Orphans Pension Scheme/ Widowers and Orphans Pension Scheme and pay the 
contributions for the scheme as may be prescribed by the Government from time to time.
 5.4. The appointment of Technical Officer Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service is subject to an acting period 
of one year, and the appointee, in terms of the Public Administration Circular No.18/2020 dated 16.10.2020 and 
the Circulars incidental thereto, shall obtain official language proficiency before passing the three (03) years of 

<!-- page 14 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1134
being appointed to the post. The appointee shall pass the first efficiency bar examination before passing the three 
(03) years of being appointed to the post.
 
5.5. The Technical Officers of Grade III of Sri Lanka Technological Service shall  perform the inspection of work 
for all new constructions, renovations, and repairs  and the designing of plans related to constructions, the 
preparation of estimates, the supervision of maintenance works, the checking and recommending of documents 
submitted for payments, and the other duties assigned in relation to the post under the Secretary to the Ministry 
in charge of the subject of Home  Affairs/District Secretary/Divisional Secretary. 
  
6.0.  Method of Application  
6.1. The Online Examination Application should strictly be filled in English language. Once the Examination 
Department receives application submitted online, the applicant will be notified via a text message (SMS) to the 
mobile phone number used to access the system, or via email, whether the application was accepted/not accepted 
by the Department of Examination as a valid application. Before completing the online application, download the 
instructions sheet prepared for this purpose. Instructions therein should be strictly followed. No  alteration done 
after taking print-out the application will be considered as a valid modification. Incomplete applications will be 
rejected without any notice. 
 
6.2. It is mandatory to clearly indicate using the mark () in the relevant place whether the applicant expects to apply 
for the Technical Officer Grade III or Training Grade of the Sri Lanka Technological Service.  
 
6.3. The applicant must get the signature attested on the admission card and shall  present the duly attested 
admission card to the supervisor on the day of the  examination. Applicant without a signature-attested 
admission card will not be allowed to sit the examination. 
6.4. All applicants who have paid the prescribed examination fees and forward duly completed applications on 
or before the closing date of application will be issued   the admission card only via online method by the 
Commissioner General of Examinations on the presumption that only those who possess such qualifications 
as indicated in the gazette notification have, applied. Once the admission cards are issued, it will be published 
through a web notice and the applicants will also be notified through a text message (SMS)  by the Department of 
Examination. An applicant, who has not received the admission card, should inquire thereof from the Institutional 
Examinations Organization Branch of the Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, as specified in the notification. 
In making such an inquiry, the name of the examination that applicant applied for, full name of the applicant, 
National Identity Card number and the address should be mentioned  accurately. In the case of an applicant 
outside of Colombo, it will be more effective to send a letter of request along with the above information to the 
e-mail address indicated in this notification.  When inquiring so, it will be advantageous to keep a copy of the 
application and a copy of the receipt for payment of examination fee in applicant’s possession in order to prove 
any information requested by the Department of Examination.
6.5. The issuance of an admission card to an applicant should not be considered as an acceptance that he or she has 
fulfilled the required qualifications to sit the examination  or for the post.
6.6. If there are any amendments upon checking the admission card, such amendments should be made by requesting 
from the Department of Examinations. Requests made for amendments at the examination hall will be 
rejected. 
6.7. All applicants shall be bound to act in accordance with the general examination rules and regulations specified in 
this Gazette.

<!-- page 15 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1135
7.0.  Examination Fee 
 Examination fee is Rs. 600/=. Payments should be made only under the following methods of payments provided 
by the online system. 
 i. Any Bank Credit Card 
 ii. Any Bank Debit Card with the facility of Internet Transactions
 iii. Online Banking Method of Bank of Ceylon
 iv. Any Branch of the Bank of Ceylon
Note:-
(a) The instructions on how to make payments through the above methods have been published under the 
technical instructions relevant to the examination on the website.
(b) Receipt of payments will be notified via a text message (SMS) or e-mail. The full amount of the 
examination fee should be paid, and the applications with lesser or higher amount fees will be rejected. 
The Department of Examinations, Sri Lanka, will not be responsible for any error that occurs in making 
payment of examination fee through the above-mentioned paying methods.
(c)  The amount paid for the examination will not be refunded or transferred to any other examination under 
any circumstances.
8.0.  Identity of the Candidates  
8.1. The Candidates shall prove their identity to the satisfaction of the supervisor for all the subjects they appear for 
at the examination in the examination hall.  The Following documents will be valid only for that purpose. 
 I. National Identity Card
 II. A valid Passport
 III. A valid Driving License 
Furthermore, the candidate should enter the examination hall, that their identity can be verified, without covering 
their face and ears and also not wearing any electronic communication devices. The candidates, who refuse 
to confirm their identity in such a manner, will not be allowed to enter in to the examination hall. Further, the 
candidates shall remain without covering their faces and ears from the time they enter in the examination hall 
until they leave the hall at the end of the examination. 
9.0  Penalties for providing false information  
9.1. If it is revealed that a candidate does not possess the required qualifications, his/her candidature will be 
annulled at any stage before, during, or after the examination. If it is revealed that a candidate has submitted 
any false information with his /her knowledge, or if he/she has willfully suppressed any important 
information, he/she will be dismissed from government service.
10.0. General Matters 
10.1. The candidates shall be subjected to the rules and regulations imposed by the Commissioner General of 
Examinations for the purpose of conducting the examination and issuing the results. If any candidate will violate 
those rules and regulations, he or she will be liable to be subjected to punishment imposed by the Commissioner 
General of Examinations. 
10.2. If there is any matter not provided for in this notification, such matter and anything with regard to filling 
these vacancies will be determined by the Public Service Commission and Secretary to the Ministry of Public 
Administration, Provincial Councils, and Local Government. 

<!-- page 16 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1136
10.3. In case of any inconsistency among the texts of Sinhala, Tamil, and English languages published in this 
notification, the Sinhala text notification shall be treated as the correct one, and action will be taken accordingly. 
 S. Alokabandara,
 Secretary,  
 Ministry of Public Administration, Provincial  
 Councils and Local Government. 
On 24th day of the month of June  2025,
Colombo 05. 
 
07-585/2
 

<!-- page 17 -->

I fldgi : (IIw) fPoh    ‑ YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h ‑ 2025'07'04
PART  I :  SEC.  (IIA) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 04.07.2025
1137
IMPORTANT  NOTICE   REGARDING   PUBLICATION   OF  GAZETTE
THE Weekly issue of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka is normally published on 
Fridays. If a Friday happens to be a Public Holiday the Gazette is published on the working day immediately 
preceding the Friday. Thus the last date specified for the receipt of notices for publication in the Gazette also 
varies depending on the incidence of public holidays in the week concerned.
The Schedule below shows the date of publication and the latest time by which notices should be re-
ceived for publication in the respective weekly Gazette. All notices received out of times specified below will 
not be published. Such notices will be returned to the sender by post for necessary amendment and return if pub-
lication is desired in a subsequent issue of the Gazette. It will be in the interest of all concerned if those desirous 
of ensuring the timely publication of notices in the Gazette  make it a point to see that sufficient time is allowed 
for postal  transmission of  notices to the Government Press.
The Government Printer accept payments of subscription for the Government Gazette.                
Note.—Payments for inserting Notices in the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
will be received by the Government Printer. 
The Schedule
   Month Date of Publication Last Date and Time of
   Acceptance of Notices for
             Publication in the Gazette
 2025
 JULY  04.07.2025 Friday — 20.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
  11.07.2025 Friday –– 27.06.2025 Friday 12 noon
  18.07.2025 Friday –– 04.07.2025 Friday 12 noon
  25.07.2025 Friday –– 11.07.2025 Friday 12 noon
 AUGUST  01.08.2025 Friday — 18.07.2025 Friday 12 noon
  07.08.2025 Thursday –– 25.07.2025 Friday 12 noon
  15.08.2025 Friday –– 01.08.2025 Friday 12 noon
  22.08.2025 Friday –– 07.08.2025 Thursday 12 noon
  29.08.2025 Friday –– 15.08.2025 Friday 12 noon
 SEPTEMBER  04.09.2025 Thursday — 22.08.2025 Friday 12 noon
  12.09.2025 Friday –– 29.08.2025 Friday 12 noon
  19.09.2025 Friday –– 04.09.2025 Thursday 12 noon
  26.09.2025 Friday –– 12.09.2025 Friday 12 noon
  
  
 S. D. Pandikorala,
 Government Printer (Acting). 
Department of Government Printing,
Colombo 08,  
09th June, 2025.
PRINTED   AT   THE   DEPARTMENT   OF   GOVERNMENT   PRINTING,   SRI LANKA.