

<!-- page 1 -->

1A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
wxl 1689$14 - 2011 ckjdrs 20 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2011'01'20
No. 1689/14 –  THURSDAY  JANUARY 20,  2011
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
EXTRAORDINARY
w;s úfYI
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV(A)  — PROVINCIAL COUNCILS
Provincial Council Notifications
1A
Uva Provincial Council
Provincial Council Co-operative Employees Commission
Statute No 04 of 2010 of the
Uva Provincial Council
The above Statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 09th of December 2010, has
been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date  24th of December, 2010 and which is hereby published
for the notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
Kings Street,
Badulla.
03rd January, 2011.

<!-- page 2 -->

2A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
THE CO-OPERATIVE EMPLOYEES COMMISSION STATUTE NO. 04 OF  2010 OF UV A PROVINCE
 PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
It is a duty of the Uva Province provincial council to provide unbiased and just Co-operative service to
the people of Uva province in accordant to the authorization that provided by the 13th amendment to
the constitution of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, on the objective of establishing a
productive and efficient Co-operative movement in the Uva Province, this statute is aimed to make a
special provision in respect of employees of Co-operative societies, to appoint employees and officers,
promoting and dismissing, discipline, paying salaries, administrating and to provide for matters connected
therewith and incidental thereto. And this statute inconsistent with to the Co-operative Employees
commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 and the amendment made thereto.
The Uva Province Provincial Council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka binding upon to
develop the social and economic status of the People of Uva Province through the efficient, productive
and trustful co-operative movement,
Be it enacted by the Uva Province Provincial council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
1. This statue is known as the Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees commission statute No 4 of
2010.
2. This statue shall come into operation on the date approved or a set date by the governor hereinafter
known as the "Governor" of the Uva Province.
PART I
Establishment  of  Co-operative  Employees  Commission  of  Uva  Province
and  its  Powers  and  Functions
3. For the purpose of this statute, Co-operative Employees Commission of Uva Province hereinafter
called and known as the "Commission" shall be established.
4. The commission shall be an incorporated with perpetual succession and a common seal and may
and be sued of holding power to do the necessary things what consists in this statute.
5. (1) The commission shall be consists three members appointed by the minister, hereinafter known
as "Minister" that who related to subject of Co-operative of Uva Provincial council.
(2) If anyone;
(a) An present employee or past employee of the Co-operative society ; or
(b) A person who is a member of anybody or persons which, in the opinion of the minister, in
a staff association, or trade union, which has its own objects or one of its objects, the
regulation of salaries, wages or conditions of service of any category of persons employed
by Co-operative societies; or
(c) A person who is a present or past officer of a Co-operative society according to the law
relating to the Co-operative societies; or
Preamble
Short title
Date of operation
Establishment of
Cooperative
employees'
Commission of Uva
Province
To be incorporated
Incorporation of
the commission

<!-- page 3 -->

3A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(d) A person who is barmy or bankrupted or who has been verdict as guilty by a Criminal
Code or bribery Code in a court;
(e)  A person who is a Member of Parliament at present or member of a Provincial Council or
a Member of a Local Government Institute; or
(f) A person who appeared or appearing as a representative of law relating matters or inspecting
discipline or appeal for a Co-operative Society or Co-operative employee; or
(g) A person who works in the ministry or department associated with the subject of
Co-operative;
Shouldn't be appointed as a Member of the Commission and inept to involve in activities furthermore.
(3) The two members who are to be selected for the Co-operative Employees Commission should
be retired and who borne staff grade in the Provincial Public Service. Also one has to be a
professional in the Co-operative sector.
6. (1) Each member of the commission shall hold their post for a period of three years or until the
consent of the minister;
(2) A member or all the members of the commission may at anytime to be removed from office by
the minister;
(3) Provided further that any person who is appointed to fill any vacancy caused by the death,
found disqualified according to the Sub clause of 5 (2) and removed, resignation, vacation of
officer, any such member vacates office earlier, hold office during a period equal to the
unexpired portion of the term of office of the member in whose place he is appointed and no
longer.
(4) A former member of the commission could be appointed as a member again.
7. (1) The minister shall appoint one of the members of the commission to be its Chairman. The
Chairman shall preside at all the meetings of the commission at he is present. In the absence
of the Chairman from any meeting of the commission any member present may preside
thereat;
(2) Two members shall constitute the quorum for a meeting of the commission;
(3) If at any meeting only two members of the commission are present and such members are
divided in opinion as to the decision to be taken on any question, such question shall be
referred to a meeting at which the three members of the commission are present;
(4) If at any meeting, at which the three members  of the commission are present, the members of
the commission divided in opinion as to the decision to be given on any question, such
question shall be decided according to the opinion of the majority of the members present, but
if the members are equally divided, then the Chairman shall have a casting vote;
(5) Any act or proceeding of the commission shall not be invalid by the reasons of the existence
of a vacancy among its members or any defect in the appoinment of any of its members or shall
not deemed as invalidated;
(6) The commission may regulate its own procedure in any matter not provided for in this statute
or any regulation made there under,
Term  of  office  of
members
Chairman and
conduct of
business

<!-- page 4 -->

4A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
8. The Chairman and members of the commission shall be paid such remuneration and such
allowances as may be determined by the minister, in consultation with the Minister of Finance of
Uva Provincial Council.
9. (1)There shall be a Secretary to the commission who shall be a member of  Sri Lanka Administrative
Service borne minimum Class II seniority;
(2)The other members of the staff of the commission shall be appointed from the transferable
services of the Provincial Public Service.
10. (1)The Chairman and members, who are appointed shall take an oath or affirmation before the High
Court  Judge of  Uva Province according to the Schedule No. 01 of this statute, prior to be assigned
the respected duty;
(2)The Secretary and the other officers of the commission as may be required to take oath or
affirmation before the Chairman of the Commission according to the schedule No. 02 of this statute.
11. The commission shall have the following powers:
(1) Determines all matters relating to methods of recruitment and relevant conditions of promotion
and regulating the procedure of the principles;
(2) Conduct examinations for recruitment when necessary and appoint Boards of Examiners for the
purpose and determine fees for the examination as such;
(3) Determines the qualifications necessary for appointment, fix the scales of salaries to be attached
to any such post or posts in any class or grade, revise or adjust such scales of salaries from time
to time in consultation with the Commissioner;
(4) To require co-operative societies to pay salaries in accordance with the  salary scales fixed by
the commission for any post or posts in any class or grade;
(5) Determines the procedures to be followed by Co-operative Societies in exercising their rights of
disciplinary action against theirs employees, to call upon any Co-operative society to complete
disciplinary inquires against its employees within a time stipulated by the commission;
(6) Inquires the appeals that what raised on disciplinary action of any Co-opertative Society;
(7) Determines that what kind of records of their employees should be kept by the Co-operative
Society;
(8) To be called upon any Co-operative Society to furnish or forward before a specified date such
files, other documents or information as the commission may  require in respect of any employee
of the society;
(9) A panel or panels of officers shall be nominated to make inquiries as are necessary on appeals
that referred by the commission to such panel or panels and to reports thereon to the
commission;
(10) When any employee forwarded an appeal against the order of any society on disciplinary
matter, the commission may give orders to the society to change decision,  liberal, cancel,
another decision instead, ordered to have inquiry, reinstatement, and ordered to enforce the
instruction as mentioned on such date or prior date;
Remuneration of
members
Secretary and
other officers
Taking of oaths by
members and
officers of the
commission
Powers of the
commission

<!-- page 5 -->

5A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(11) To determine the general principles in accordance with which gratuity or other benefits may be
granted to employees on the termination of their services;
(12) To derermine to an appellant to deposit a sum of rupees through the regulation of the minister
and deposit to be remained after the inspection of the appeal or making decision to pay back;
(13) To advise the minister, in consultation with the commissioner, in the exemption of any
Co-operative Society or class of Co-operative societies from the operation of this statute;
(14) To exercise such other powers in relation to Co-operative societies and their employees as may
be vested to the commission by order made by the Minister and published in the Gazette after
the approval of the Provincial Council;
(15)  In the exercise of the powers vested to the commission by sub sections (6) and (12) above, the
commission may modify, vary or revise or set aside any decisions  or orders made by the
commission.
12. The expenses of the commission shall be paid out of the money provided for the purpose by the
Provincial Council by annual or supplementary budgets.
13. (1) A fund may be established by the deposit of appellants. The deposits mentioned in the sub
section (12) of section 11 could be credited to the said above fund. The management of the fund
shall be possessed by the commission.
(2) A syntax shall be made and shall be approved by the minister to control this fund.
PART II
Co-operative Societies and Their Employees
14. A Co-operative Society which for the time being pays out of its funds the salary and other
emoluments of any employee shall be deemed to be employer of such employee.
15. All the Co-operative societies shall be paid the salary and other emoluments of employees from
their fund.
16. Any Co-operative society, and any employee of such society, shall be subjected to such directions
as may be given by the commission under this statute, and all decisions of the Commission in the
discharge and exercise of its functions and powers under this statute subject to the provisions of
sub section (15) of section 11 shall be the final, and shall be binding on all such Co-operative
Societies as are not exempted from the operation of this Statute.
17. All directions given by the commission in regard to any employee of any Co-operative Society,
subject to the provisions of sub section (15) of section 11 shall be final and binding upon such
employee as if such directions were given by such society.
18. (1) The method of determined wages and service regulations including all grading;
(2) All sort of regulations or orders released to accomplish the Act of Co-operative Employees
Commission No. 12 of 1972;
Financial
Provisions
Establishing Fund
The Co-operative
Society shall be an
employer
Emoluments of
employees
Direction of
Commission to be
binding upon the
co-operative
societies and their
employees
The co-operative
employees of the
Co-operative
binding upon with
the order of the
Commission
Ratifying the
implementation of
activities on date
and prior of this
statute

<!-- page 6 -->

6A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(3) All kind of appeals accepted and commenced to inquire and all appeals that have made orders
after completion of inquires;
(4) All enacted regulations and released provisions of the circulars;
(5) All the appointments and promotions done; on the date of estabsishing the Uva Provincial
co-operative employees commission under this statute or prior by the co-operative employees
commission established under the Co-operative Employees Commission Act, No. 12 of 1972 and
amendments thereto, or by the provincial Co-operative Employees Commission appointed by
the Uva Provincial co-operative Minister and by him under the Provincial Council
(consequential) Act, No. 12 of 1989, or by Uva Provincial Co-operative Employees Commission
established under the Uva Provincial Co-operative Societies and Co-operative Employees
Commission statute No. 05 of 1991 approved by the Governor of Uva Province, shall be enacted
with legal power as enacted under this statute.
19. Only that who resides permanently more than two years in the Uva province shall be selected for
any posts in the Co-operative Society. However according to the opinion of the commission, if
there wasn't a qualified person in the Uva Province to be filled such vacant, the Co-operative
society has the power to appoint a qualified person under the regulation of the minister and after
notifying to the commission and on approval.
20. Who ever appointed for the post of any Co-operative society, the salary shall be paid in accordant
the post selected. And has to be decided according to the grade of the sociey and the grade and the
class of employees, as describe in the sub section 25(1) below.
21. What so ever mentioned in the provisions of this statute, the commission could appoint an officer
as secondment from the provincial public service to a post of a society with the concurrence of the
appointing authority and consent of relevant officer and society under the determined time frame,
order and subject of the regulation of the commission. The appointing officer means that who, has
the authority to appoint officers in public service in the Uva provincial council.
22. (1) No employee of a Co-operative society shall be dismissed or otherwise punished by any
Co-operative society except in accordance with the provisions of this statute or any regulations
made there under;
(2) Nothing in the preceding provisions of this section shall be deemed to render it unlawful for any
Co-operative society to commence proceedings in accordance with such provisions, or to
continue and complete as far as possible in accordance with such provisions any proceedings
pending on the date of establishment of the commission against any of its employees in respect
of any misconduct of discipline or other cause of complaint which may have occurred or arisen
before such date;
(3) if any employee submitted any appeal as that he or she has been punished by any co-operative
society except regular proceedings and the legal action lead to pay the compensation, arrears or
penalty or other, the committee, chairman including the Directors of the society who involved in
making decision of penalizing are binding upon to replenish individually or united. The money
could be charged according to the statute of Uva Provincial Co-operative society.
Residential
Qualification.
Scales of salary of
employee to be
determined
according to
grading of a
co-operative
society and grade
and class of
employees.
Dismissal and
punishment of
employees of
Co-operative
societies.
Secondment from
the Uva provincial
public service.

<!-- page 7 -->

7A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(23) (1) Regulation;
(a) In respect of the recruitment, appointment, promotion, transfer, resignation and termination
of services of employees of Co-operative societies,
(b) prescribing such terms and conditions of employement of such employees and providing for
salary scales, the payment of allowances and gratuties, the   grant  of advances, promotion, leave,
the interdiction of officers, the termination of appointments, dismissals or the imposition of any
other form of punishment to such employees and other form of punishment to such employees and
any appeal there from and,
(c) In respect of such other matters are deemed necessary,
May be made by the Minister;
(2) All Co-operative societies and employees of them are binding upon with all regulations enacted
related to the Sub section (1) above.
(24) (1) Every Co-operative Society shall-
(a) Keep and maintain in respect of its employees the prescribed registers or records, and enter
therein all such particulars relating to each such employee as may be prescribed which could
be determined by the commission.
(b)  Furnish to the commission such returns or reports relating to its employees as may be
prescribed or such information as the commission may from time to time  require.
(c) Permit any member or servant of the commission authorised or an apporoval of  the  Secretary
of Uva Co-operative employees Commission, an officer of  Co-operative Develpoment
Department that who had pre approval  of the Co-operative Commissioner, in that behalf to
enter any of its offices and inspect and take copies of any books, accounts, records or other
document kept therin.
PART III
Powers of the Commissioner
(25) The commissioner shall have the power to grade each Co-operative society for the purpose of
fixing scales of salaries for posts in Co-operative societies and to determine the grades or classes
of employees and the number of employees in each such grade or class of any Co-operative
society and vary it as he may deem necessary, from time to time.
(2) No Co-operative society shall employ any person in contravention of the determination made
by the Commissioner under Sub section (1).
(26) The Commission shall, with the concurrence of the Commissioner, determine the qualification
necessary for appointment to any post in Co-operative societies,  fix the scales of salary to be
attached to any such post or posts in any class or grade and revise such scales of salaries from
time to time.
Regulations relating
to employees.
Commissioner to
grade societies
and determine
staff.
Duties of
Co-operative
society in respect
of its employees.
The Commission to
secure  the
concurrence
of the commissioner
regarding qualifica-
tions,
salary, scales, etc.,

<!-- page 8 -->

8A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
PART IV
Miscellaneous
(27) (1) If in giving effect to the provisions of this statue any doubt or difficulty arises in respect of any
matter or question for which no provision or no effective  provision is made by this statue, the
minister may, by order, remove or determine such doubt or diffculty. Every such order shall be
published in the Gazette,  and upon such publication shall have the force of low and be as valid and
effectual as if it were herein enacted.
(2) The commission has the power to make any necessary provision on any matter which are not
covered by making the above respected procedure.
(28) (1) unless otherwise expressly provided, the commission may make all such regulations as seem to
the commission to be necessary for carrying out the provisions of  this statue or giving effect to the
principles thereof, including  regulations for all matters for or in respect of which regulations are
authorized   or required to be made this staute, and all matters stated or required by this statue to
be prescribed.
(2) No such  regulation shall have effect until it has been approved by the Minister and notification
of such approval has been published in the Gazette. And it shall be enforced on the date of
published or the date after ordered to be determined.
(3) All orders made under sub section (1) to be submitted to the Uva provincial council for approval
as soon as possible after it was published in the  Gazette. The orders such not approved, consid-
ered as rescinded and it wasn't  caused any harm to the previous what has done under it from the
date of order, and the date considered as rescinded shall be notified by a Gazette notice.
(29) No action, prosecution or other proceedings whether civil  or criminal shall be instituted or mainatined
against any individual member of the commission in respect of any decision taken or act done or
omitted to be done by him in his capacity as such member or by the commission in its corporation
capacity.
(30) Notwithstanding the provisions of this statute, Co-operative society may in the interests of its
efficient operation.
(1)The services of an expert or a specialist for any defined term on a contractual basis with prior
approval of the commission or,
(2)Engage casual or daily paid employees or employees paid on a piece rate basis, however that no
permanency of tenure of the office shall be granted to such employees without the concurrence of
the commission.
31. (1)Any co-operative society or any committee any officer or employee thereof;
(a) Which or who contravenes the provisions of this statute or,
(b)Which or who willfully neglects or refuses or fails to do any act required by the commission to
be done, or to furnish any information required for the purposes of this statute by the commission
or other duly authorized person or,
(c)Which or who willfully makes a false return or furnishes false information,Shall be guilty of an
offence under this statute,
Removal of
Difficulties.
Minister
enacts
regulations.
Legal protection.
Offences.

<!-- page 9 -->

9A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(2) Every Co-operative society or person which or who commits any offence referred to in above
subsection (1) shall on conviction after summary trial before a magistrate, be liable to a fine not
exceeding Rs. 5,000,
(3) Where any offence under this statute is committed by a Co-operative society every officer of
that society shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence, unless he proved that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commission
of the offence.
(4) On the conviction of any Co-operative society for failure to carry out any instructions given
by the commission as require the reinstatement of any employee, such Co-operative society
shall be liable;
(a) To pay, in addition to any punishment that may be imposed on such Co-operative society
under subsection 31 (2), a fine of Rs. 250 each day on which the failure is continued after
conviction thereof and,
(b) To pay such employee the remuneration which would have been payable to him if he had been
in such service on each day and on each day of the period commencing on the date on which
he should have been reinstated in service according to the instructions of the Commission and
ending on the date of the conviction of such Co-operative Society computed at the rate of
salary or wages to which he would have been entitled if his services had not been terminated.
(c) Remuneration or compensation which that commission has been ordered to the Co-operative
Society to pay and fail to do so, shall be convicted, to be liable to a fine of the commission in
addition of the punishment of above Subsection (2).
(d) Any sum which a Co-operative Society is liable to pay under Sub section (b) & (c) above may
be recovered on the order of the Court by which it was convicted as if it were a fine imposed on
it by that court and the amount so recovered shall be paid to the employee.
(5) No power to be provided through this provision to the magistrate to consider the accuracy or
inspect or make decision for about the order of the commission, in such legal action under this
provision,.  Also, shall not determine.
32. Every person who, otherwise than in the course of his duty, directly or indirectly, by himself or
any other person, in any manner what so ever influences or attempts to influence any decision
of the commission or any member thereof, shall be guilty of an offence, and shall, on conviction
after summary trial before a magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding Rs. 5,000 or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both such fine and such imprisnment.
33. No member of this commission, nor the secretary of the commission, or any member of the staff
of the commission, nor other persons shall publish or disclose to any person, otherwise than
in the exercise of his official functions, the contents of any document, communication or
information what so ever which has come to his notice in the course of his duties.
34. No person shall in any legal proceedings be permitted or compelled to produce or disclose any
communication, written or oral, which has taken place between the commission or any member,
or officer there of, and any Co-operative Society or any member of the committee of management
of such society or officer of thereof or between any member or officer of the commission in the
exercise of, or in connection with the exercise of any of the functions of the commission unless
the, Chairman shall consent in writing to such production or disclosure.
Interference with
the commission.
Unauthorized
disclosure of
information
prohibited.
Communications
of the Commission
to be privileged.

<!-- page 10 -->

10A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
35. (1) If any requirement forwarded under the provision No. 3 ( b) of industrial dispute act by the
employee to the labor tribunal which established under the same act, the matter or the matter in
brief or the appeal what forwarded by the employess shall not be accepted by the commission.
(2) If any requirement forwarded by an employee to the commission on any matter under this
statute, the employee shall not have power to be forwarded to an authority of labour tribunal
which established under Industrial Disputes Act.
36. The chairman and all members including all employees of the commission shall be deemed to be
public servants within the meaning and for the purpose of the penal code.
37. The commission shall be deemed to be a scheduled institute within the meaning of the Bribery
Act.
38. The activity of below mentioned statutes shall be rescinded, when this statute activated,
(a)  Co-operative Society and Employees Commission Statute, No. 05 of 1991 of Uva Provincial
Council.
(b)  Co-operative Society and Co-operative Employees Commission (revised) Statute No. 05 of
1992 of Uva Provincial Council.
39. If any textual inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English of this statute, the textual of
Sinhala shall be influenced.
40. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires:
"Governor" means the Governor of Uva province.
"Minister" means the subject minister of the Co-operative Affairs of Uva Provincial Council.
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Co-operative Development of Uva Province and
Registrar of Co-operative Societies.
"Co-operative Society" means a society registered under the law relating to Co-operative
Societies.
"Committee" assumed Management of a registered Co-operative Society and contemplates the
administration of the society and persons appointed by the Director Board of the Registered
Society and Commissioner.
"Officer" means committee Members, Secretaries, Executive Officers, in all occasions, when
mentioning about the Co-operative Society,
"Employee" means an employee of a Co-operative Society, who has an appointment of a co-
operative society and obtaining remuner
ations, allowances, and emoluments and assigned certain
duties from the co-operative society.
Industrial disputes
Act relevant to the
Co-operative
society their
employees concern.
The Officers of
the Commission
should be deemed
as Government
Servant.
The Commission
should be scheduled
Institute of the
Breibery Act.
Contravenes of
this statute.
Sinhala Language
shall be influenced
if any
inconsistency.
Interpretation.

<!-- page 11 -->

11A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Schedule No. 01
Oath or affirmation of member of the Commission under the Subsection 10(1) of the statute of the Co-operative Employees
Commission by the Chairman/Member of the Co-operative Employees Commission of Uva Province.
I, ........................................ having been appointed the Chairman / a member of the Co-operative Employees Commission do
swear / solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will, without fear or favour, affection or ill-will, discharge the functions of the office
of Chairman / Member of the Co-operative Employees Commission and that I will not directly or indirectly, reveal any matters
relating to such functions to any person otherwise than the course of duty.
...............................
Signature.
Sworn/affirmed before me this ............................ day of ........................... 20................
.....................................
Judge of the Provincial High Court.
Schedule No. 02
Oath or affirmation of member of the Commission under the subsection 10(2) of the statute of the Co-operative Employees
Commission by the Secretary/Employee of the Co-operative Employees Commission of Uva Province.
I, ........................................ having been called upon to exercise the functions of the Secretary of / an officer of the Co-operative
Employees Commission do swear / solemnly and sincerely affirm that I will not, directly or indirectly, reveal to any person
otherwise than in the course of duty the contents or any part of the contents of any document, communication or information
whatsoever which may come to my knowledge in the course of duties as secretary of / an officer of the Co-operative employees
commission.
...............................
Signature.
Sworn/affirmed before me this ............................ day of ........................... 20................
.....................................
Chairman of the Co-operative
Employees Commission of Uva Province.
02-49/1

<!-- page 12 -->

12A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
UV A PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
Provincial Council Rent Statute No 05 of 2010 of the Uva Provincial Council
The above Statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 09th of December, 2010, has
been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date  24th of December, 2010 and which is hereby published
for the notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
Kings Street,
Badulla.
03rd January, 2011.
Short title and Date
of Operation
Relevant Acts
Uva Province
Provincial Council
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
UV A PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
THE RENT STA TUTE OF UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
This statute cited to set provisions in the Uva province to protect rights of the people who dwell in rental
houses in the Uva province and to provide necessary facilities for who dwell and to be deemed for their
well-beings and to be achieved the goals of this statute by providing necessary legal provisions to be
enforced the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 in the Uva Province and to establish institutions and organizations
with legal power to implement the statute and incidental matters thereto,
This statue is consistent with the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 and amended Acts thereto.
Be it enacted by the Uva Province Provincial council according to the power vested to Provincial
councils by the 13th Amendment to the constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1. This statute is known as the Uva Provincial rent Statute No. 5 of 2010 and this statue shall come
into operation on the date approved or on the date determined by the Governor, of the Uva
Province.
2. It is lawful to entrust the responsibilities as mention hereinafter to accomplish the duties, and
tasks mentioned in the Rent Act, No. 7 of 1972 and the amended Acts thereto, hereinafter known
as "Relevant Acts", within Uva province.
3. The area that covers Badulla and Monaragala administrating Districts known as Uva Province,
hereinafter known as the "Province".
4. (1) The constituted authority established in terms of the 13th amendment to the constitution of
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for Uva province to enforce the current activities
according to the Provincial council Act, No. 42 of 1987 is known as the Uva Province Provincial
Council and shall be mentioned as parliament in the relevant Acts, the Provincial Council shall
be accomplished, when enforcing the constituted liability in the province.
(2) Shall be mentioned as House of Representative in the relevant Acts, the liable what demised
by the Acts to be enforced , should be accomplished by the members of the Uva province
provincial council, in the province.

<!-- page 13 -->

13A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Provincial
Minister
Incorporation of
Pradeshiya Sabha
Sinhala text to
prevail in event of
inconsistency
Provincial
Housing
 Account
Provincial
Housing
Commissioner
Establishing
Prpvincial
Housing
Department
5. (1) The subject Ministere of Housing of the Uva Province Provincial Council known as the
minister of this Province, shall be mentioned as "Minister" in the relevant Acts, the activities
of the Provincial Minister shall be legalized when the duty and task demised him to be
accomplished in the Province.
(2) The regulations made by the Ministr currently in force shall be deemed as made by the
Provincial minister, when enforcing the relevant act in the province, enforcing as according
to the minister's regulation of this act is legitimated. Also the provincial Minister shall be able
to be abolished the current order, alternate, make amendment or make regulation.
6. A department of provincial Housing shall be established to accomplish the duty and task mentioned
in the relevant Acts. The department shall be enforced as a unit or section under the subject
Ministry of Housing of Uva Province.
7. When the relevant Acts enforce in the Uva Province, shall be mentioned as "National Housing
Department" in the said Acts and shall be accomplished the duties and tasks and bearing liability
mentioned in the paragraph 6 above and implementing the task to the extent motioned in the 13th
amendment to the constitution by the Provincial Housing Department is legitimated.
8. (1) A commissioner shall be appointed by the Governor of Uva province for the Provincial
Housing Department as mentioned in the paragraph 6 above, the appointed officer shall be a
grade one officer of the administrative service of Sri Lanka.
(2) When enforcing the relevant Acts in the province, shall be mentioned as "National Housing
Commissioner" or Commissioner and he should accomplish the duties and tasks what
mentioned and demised by the Acts and enforcing shall be done to the extent mentioned in
the 13th amendment to the constitution, in the province by the Housing Commissioner of the
Province, implementing as such shall be legitimated.
9. While enforcing the relevant Acts in the Uva Province, shall be mentioned as "National Housing
Fund" or "Repairs Fund" and to be accomplished the duties and tasks which demised by the
relavant Acts, a fund shall be formed known as "Provincial Housing Account" the Performance
what shall be accomplished by the National Housing Fund, Implementing as such tasks by the
"Province Housing Account" of Uva Province shall be legitimated.
10. (1) In the relevant Acts, where ever known as "Local Authority", the Pradeshiya Sabhas which
currently under operation shall be incorporated and where ever mentioned urban council or
village council enforcing duries substituting by Pradeshiya Sabha shall be legitimated.
(2) When enforcing the relevant Acts in the Uva province, as mentioning urban councils and
village councils in the relevant Acts and liability of the duties and tasks which demised to
such institute, shall be enforcing by pradeshiya Sabha and bearing the liability is legitimated.
11. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and English or Tamil text of this statute, the
Sinhala text shall prevail.
02-49/2

<!-- page 14 -->

14A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Preamble
Short title and date
of operation
Goal
Uva Provincial Council
Provincial Council Housing Development No. 06 of 2010 of the Uva Provincial Council
The above Statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 09th of December, 2010, has
been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date  24th of December, 2010 and which is hereby published
for the notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council,
Kings Street,
Badulla.
05th January, 2011.
  DEMOCRATIC  SOCIALIST  REPUBLIC  OF  SRI  LANKA
UV A  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
The Housing Development Statute of Uva Province Provincial Council
This statute cited to provide provisions to select the beneficiaries for housing development programms
in the Uva Province and providing material assistances, loans, financial assistances land or constructed
housess for them and project planning for promotion of the housing facilities, enforcing, co-
coordinating,monitoring, administrating the progress and deeming fiancial assistances as such to enforce
them and financial management for the allocated such and necessary community based organization
shall be established to get the participation of the people that who are on the objective of Housing
development and to share the power to such and deem provisions to provide necessary infrastructure
facilities for housing development projects in accordance to the thirteenth Amendment to the Constitution
of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and according to the provisions of power vesting to
Provincial Councils. This statute is inconsistent with the National Housing Development Authority
Act, No. 17 of 1979.
As the policy of Uva Province Provincial council is providing appropriate houses to dwell to all the
habitants of Uva Province by fulfilling their necessity of houses by providing necessary assistance to
obtain or construct a house;
Be it enacted by the Uva Province Provincial council of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka:-
1. This statue is known as the Uva Provincial Housing Development Statute No. 6 of 2010 and this
statue shall come into operation on the date approved or a set date of the Governor, hereinafter
known as the "governor" of the province.
Part I
General
2. The goal of this statute is to provide necessary provisions to obtain apt houses to dwell for the
habitants of Uva Province or providing necessary facilities to construct them in the Province.

<!-- page 15 -->

15A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Housing
Development
department
Commissioner of
Provincial Housing
Appointing other
officers
The duty and task
of  Housing
commissioner
3. A Department of Housing Development of Uva Province (hereinafter known as the "Department")
may be exist to accomplish the duties and tasks of this statute and achieve the goal mentioned
above section 2 and it shall be organized as a separate Department or a unit.
4. A Commissioner (hereinafter known as the Commissioner") shall be appointed by the Governor as
the head of the Department mentioned above section 3 and he should be an officer of grade one
of the Sri Lanka Administrative service.
5. Assistant Commissioners and other officers shall be appointed to assist the Commissioner of
Housing of the province.
6. The Commissioner shall be subjected to the general and special provisions of the subject Minister
(hereinafter known as the "Minister") of Housing of the province and the Secretary (hereinafter
known as the "Secretary") to Ministry of Housing of the Uva Province.
II Part
Powers and Duties
7. The Commissioner shall be liable to accomplish the duties and tasks mentioned below determined
by the Minister and the Secretary.
(1) Organizing systematize projects to provide building materials and financial assistances to
the low incomers and who exist on public assistance.
(2) Providing loans to the low incomers for housing.
(3) Organizing Handicraft Housing Projects.
(4) Manufacturing building materials for housing development.
(5) Providing infrastructural facilities for Housing development project.
(6) Providing additional necessary facilities to the projects what demised to the Public.
(7) Recognizing appropriate lands for the Housing development Projects, developing the lands
and constructing houses on the same lands.
(8) Taking necessary actions for recognizing and selecting beneficiaries for houses and land,
and demising houses and lands to them.
(9) Providing appropriate lands to who do not have apt lands, for housing.
(10) Making appropriate methodology with the concurrence of the Minister to provide meterial
assistances, financial assistances, and loans.
(11) Appropriate methodology shall be made with the concurrence of the Minister to recover
loans and the value of the asset.
(12) The funds what flows on goals of housing development from various source shall be utilized
to appropriate projects with the concurrence of the Minister and the Secretary.
(13) Planning implementing, administrating, managing, monitoring and evaluating Housing
development projects.

<!-- page 16 -->

16A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Power of
Minister
Providing
Provisions
(14) Working towards to establish community based organizations for the purpose of housing
development and registration shall be made as such.
(15) W ritten agreements shall be made on behalf of the secretary for the purpose of housing
development with the same goal oriented organization and institutions, signatories for the
official documents and working towards with the organizations and institutions as such.
(16) Providing facilities to the beneficiaries to get loans through the local fund sources for the
purpose of this statute.
(17) Assume and charge rental, lease or charges for the buildings provided in accordance this
statute.
8. In order to achieve the goals of this Statute, the Minister shall have the powers below.
(1) Approval shall be made to assume moveable and Immovable properties, or properties such
as granted or other, conserving, administrating, promoting, leasing, mortgaging, transferring
or releasing any other ways on the objective of  Housing development.
(2) Determining the qualifications and income limit of the beneficiaries, when granting building
materials, financial assistances, loans, lands and houses to low incomers and appointing
committees for the purpose of selecting beneficiaries or monitoring housing development
activities.
(3) The land allocated for the goal of Housing development shall be approved, as such
consumed for the same purpose.
(4) Determine shall be made the limit of funding, interest, installments, amount, and the time
frame when donating loans, financial assistance, lands, houses, or material
(5) Taking decisions on granting loans from the recoveries of loans.
(6) Appropriate regulations shall be enacted for the purpose of this statute.
9. (1) The provision shall be deemed towards to allocate funds annually from the budget of the
Provincial Council for the purpose of this statute.
(2) The revenue accumulated by the Ministry of the subject or department by organizing
programs for the purpose of housing development should be granted to the Ministry
through the account of the Provincial Council.
(3) The revenue of lottery what organized for the purpose of Housing development could be
assumed by the Ministry.
(4) Donations made by the various sources for housing development Programs could be
assumed by the Ministry.
(5) Donation of various charities given for the purpose of Housing development could be
assumed by the Ministry.
(6) In accordance with this statute the revenue such as rental, lease or other, obtained from the
assets managed by the ministry or the department could be assumed by the Ministry.
(7) The revenue by loan installments or exclusion of assets could be assumed by the ministry
by installment basis or at once.

<!-- page 17 -->

17A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Housing
development
Account
Housing
development
society
Responsibilities
of Beneficiaries
10. (1) The revenue what obtained from the various sources according to the above section 9
should be accumulated in the Provincial Housing development Account (hereinafter known
as the "Account").
(2) The calendar is the financial year of the Account.
(3) This account shall be subjected to auditing according to the 42nd Paragraph of the Provincial
Council Act of 1987. Also subject to the internal auditor of Uva provincial Council and
internal auditor of the ministry.
(4) This account subject to the direct monitoring of the secretary.
11. (1) Establishing community based societies to get assistances with the goal of housing
development shall be ligalized.
(2) An appropriate constitution for establishing and administrating the above societies
mentioned in sub section (1), could be prepared and published in the gazette by the minister
as a regulation, could be implemented.
(3) The secieties constitutionally established as above sub section (2) shall be registered by
the commissioner and a certificate shall be issued for conformation.
(4) The contracts could be granted for the projects that oriented on Housing development out
of the tender procedure to a registered housing development society and the maximum
value of the agreement time to time subject to the determined limit of the treasury and the
secretary to the financial ministry.
(5) The commissioner and the secretary could get assistance from the Housing development
societies to achieve the goals of housing development.
12. (1) The beneficiaries that assume land, house, material assistances, loan, financial aid or any
other assistance should be signed an agreement, hereinafter known as "agreement", with
the commissioner and the agreement should consist apt conditions and terms to meet the
goals of Housing development.
(2) The Commissioner should have the rights to recover the dues of land, house, material
assistances, loans, and other assistances through the magistrate against beneficiaries that
who violate the agreement mentioned above sub section (1).
(3) In advance of forwarding to the magistrate mentioned sub section (2), the beneficiaries
should be informed by the commissioner about the violation of agreement by registered
post letter and the commissioner shall give minimum 21 days to get down the agreement.
(4) When appeal as above subsection (2) shall be forwarded to the magistrate 25% should be
added as administration fee to the value of the assets, material or finance which mentioned
in the agreement.
(5) It is liable to grant the land, house, material or any financial assistance to any other qualified
beneficiary by the commissioner, which acquired after the judgment of the magistrate of
sub section (2).

<!-- page 18 -->

18A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Acquisition lands
and paying
compensation
Exclusion of Assets
Regulations
Interpretation
(6) The money which acquired after the magistrate in accord of sub section (2) above shall be
deposited in the account of housing development.
SECTION  III
General Provisions
13. (1) For the purpose of this statute, any land or any link to the particular land needed be
acquired, could be done under the Land  Acquiring Act, (460th Authority) by the
Government for Uva Province Provincial Council.
(2) If any Government land needed for the purpose of this statute, the steps should be taken
by the section 1.2:2 of Appendix II of 13th amendment to the constitution.
(3) When counting the amount of compensation which to be paid for acquisition and other purpose, they
shall be paid according to the provision of Land Acquisition Act (460th Authority) and the expenditure
shall be borne by the fund of Provincial Council.
(4) When an appropriate land is recognized for the purpose of this statute, the minister should get the
approval of the Board of Minister, Provincial Council and the Governor before the acquisition begun.
(5) The land acquired under Sub sections (1) or (2) should not be used for a purpose except housing
development.
14. (1) When a land or house granted to any beneficiary under this statute, the value of the asset should be
paid at once or in installment basis to the provincial council according to the commissioner's advise.
(2) When the value of the asset recovered which assigned under Sub -section (1) above, the commissioner
shall be assigned the proprietorship through the Notaries Public signed deed for the relevant asset.
(3) The proprietorship shall be assigned under the Sub section (2) above, only after the completion of
building a house.
15. (1) The Minister shall be enacted the appropriate and applicable regulations what necessary to
accomplish the duties and the tasks and achieve the goals of this statute and proper administration.
(2) The regulations what enacted by the Minister should be published in the Gazette.
(3) The regulations what published in the Gazette shall come into operation on such date or the following
date determined.
(4) The regulations what published in the Gazette should be forwarded to the Provincial Council by the
Minister for approval.
(5) If the regulations which submitted to the Provincial Council under the Sub section (4) above is not
approved, it is liable to made aware the public through the Gazette by the Minister.
(6) Any action done, in between the period mentioned Sub sections (3) and (5) above, under the particular
regulation shall not be deemed as illegitimated.
16. In this statute, unless the context otherwise requires -
"Province" means in this statute, a province known as Uva which formed by the Districts called Badulla
and Moneragala,

<!-- page 19 -->

19A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
Sinhala text shall be
reckoned
as incorrect if any
inconsistency
Provincial Council Notifications
Uva Provincial Council
Provincial Council Social Service Statute
No. 08 of 2010 of the
Uva Provincial Council
The above Statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 09th of December 2010, has been approved
by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date 30th of December 2010 and which is hereby published for the notification o f the
public.
K. D. Sirisena,
Secretary,
Uva Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Provincial Council
Kings Street,
Badulla
05th January 2011.
"Provincial Council" means in this Statute Uva Provincial Council in the Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka.
"Governor" means the Governor of the Uva Province.
"Ministry" means  the relevant ministry that deal with the subject of Housing Development of Uva
Provincial Council.
"Minister" means the ministre to whom the subject of housing development of Uva Provincial Council.
"Secretary" means the secretary to the ministry of the subject of housing  development of Uva Provincial
Council.
"Commissioner" means the commissioner of the Housing Development Department of Uva Provincial
Council.
"Department" means the department of Housing Development or a unit or a Section established on the
goal of accomplishing the housing developemnt task, of the Uva Provincial Council.
"Account" means an account opened under the aim of Housing Development which runs by the Ministry
of Housing Development.
"Society" means the society that established under this statute, with the participation of public for the
purpose  of Housing Development.
(17) In event of inconsistency between the text of Sinhala and Tamil or English, the Sinhala meaning and term
shall be influenced.

<!-- page 20 -->

20A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
UV A PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
SOCIAL SERVICES PRECEPT, NO. 8 OF  2010 OF UVA PROVINCE PROVINCIAL COUNCIL
The precept to provide rules and regulations to rehabilitate displaced individuals and families provide relief to the
poor, to aid the helpless due to tuberculosis, cancer, leprosy, thalacemia and kidney diseases, rehabilitate physically,
mentally and socially disabled and look into their welfare to provide relief to those who are unable to be occupied
with get employments due to disability, to provide relief to helpless due to deaths from terrorism and racial riots or
disabled due to civil war or disaster of natural calamity within Uva Province and to maintain all other welfare means
efficiently, and to introduce a new approach meant to social development, within the Province of Uva.
The Uva Province Provincial Council of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka declare thus:
1. This precept is introduced as the precept of Social Services No. 08 of 2010 of Uva Province Provincial
Council and will be implemented from the date of approval by the Governor of Uva.
2. Aims of this precept are as follows:-
(1) To supply aid and relief services to the poor and destitute and rehabilitate them;
(2) To provide protection and rehabilitate the physically, mentally and socially disabled and destituted senior
citizens of low-income families of Uva Province;
(3) To aid and supervise the voluntary homes for the disabled individuals and senior citizens and disabled with
mental, physical and social defects;
(4) To aid without concerning the income, with equipment and finance, the people helpless due to deaths of
terrorism and racial riots or disabled due to natural calamity;
(5) To carryout various social development project with the aim of socializing and protecting the cultural
values of school children religions school children, widows and spinsters, family members of imprisoned,
family members of disabled and family members of persons destitute due to loss of social protection;
(6) To plan and implement community development projects regarding destitute and ignored children, street
children and children without social protection.
3. The Governor of Uva Province may appoint qualified and capable officers to carryout below mentioned
prospects to the institute known as Uva Provincial Social Services Department at present (which will be called
as "The Department" here upon) to fulfill the aims of this precept:---
(1) The director of Uva Provincial Social Services, who will be called as "the Director "here upon, will be
the Head of the Department and he should be an Officer of Grade II of Sri Lanka Administrative
Service.  He will be appointed by the Governor of Uva Province.  The Governor will also appoint two
Asst. Directors who are in Grade III of Sri Lanka Administrative Service to the both Districts of
Badulla and Moneragala;
(2) The rules and Regulations of Provincial Council Act No. 42 of 1987 and powers issued by the
Governor of Uva Province and the Uva Provincial Public Services Commission will be relevant in
appointing the officers to the department transferring and dismissing them, maintaining their discipline
and other eventual matters.
4. The duties and responsibilities of the department would be as follows :-
(1) Payments of monthly charity allowance to poor families ;
(2) Payment of allowances ordered by the Minister to the poor,  suffering with illnesses identified under this
precept;
The Director and
Staff of the
Department
Brief name and
date of
implementation
Aims of this
 precept
Work allotment of
 the Department
Full name

<!-- page 21 -->

21A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(3) Provide relief to individuals and families destituted due to indirect ways of disasters and rehabilitate them;
(4) Establishing senior citizen protecting centres, homes or institutes of that nature for senior citizens who
have lost the protection of their families or the society and rehabilitate them;
(5) Establishing protecting centres/homes/institutes for children physically handicapped and children of slow
growing mentality, who need social protection and also start special schools and skills training centres for
them,  to educate and train them to enable them to join  the development of the province, and rehabilitate
them;
(6) Establishing special schools for children with defects of hearing, vision and speaking and maintain their
education needs properly build up homes or centres for their protection and maintain them, provide them
with necessary education and skills training and join them to the development of the province;
(7) Preparing programmes and implements them to send back the senior citizens and handicapped children
who reside outside from homes and destituted without social protection, for the protection under their
families;
(8) (i) Steps will be taken Pay a recompense limited to a maximum, decided under orders of the Minister,
without concerning about the income of the family on behalf of a death due to terrorism or racial riots.
(ii)
(9) Supplying hearing aids, spectacles, wheel chairs, tricycles, crutches, contact lenses etc. to the disabled
belong to relief expecting families;
(10) Providing necessary aid to registered organizations or institutes, keeping residentially and
looking after the senior citizens and persons with minor disabilities;
(11) Taking necessary steps of rehabilitation services for identified individuals and families as
destitute socially or will be destituted;
(12) Rehabilitate the persons and families through consultation services, suffering or liable to
suffer due to various happening in the society and put up and maintain consultation centres
for them;
(13) Or ganize programmes for special study. Verification and research in relation to the aims of
above sections and conduct programmes and conference to lessen anti social activities and
review the progress of those programmes;
(14) Conduct various programmes to strengthen the senior citizens, family members of persons
with disabilities, family members of imprisoned, senior citizens with widowhood, members of
destitute families and school children and youth, socially, mentally and economically, and to
maintain social values and social development;
5. Any organization or individual is expected to give any information or report helpful to the work
prepared in achieving the aims of this precept to the director or his representative:--
(1) The director or his representative is entitled to inspect, hold inquiries, verifications,
investigation for the regiments of this precept and reasonably obtain or inspect any documents.
letters, files, registers etc. or hold any legal inspection by entering with or without prior
notification to any home, centre or institute, maintained on behalf of senior citizens, disabled
or any other social service means, within the Province of Uva.
6. It is a must that all institutes, homes or organizations in operation voluntarily to fulfill the scope
of work under section No.04 of this precept, should be registered in the department. If it is a home
or an institute maintained by a foreign non-Government organization, it should be registered in
It is a must to register
  homes/institutes
Powers of the
  Department

<!-- page 22 -->

22A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
the secretariat registering non-Government organizations of the Social Service and Social Welfare
Ministry, prior to the registration in the Uva Provincial Social Services Department.
7. To fulfill the aims of section No. 02 of this precept it is entitled to establish and maintain a fund
by the name of "Uva Provincial Social Services Fund Account".
(1) The objectives of establishing this fund:---
(i) to assist the work regarding probation and childcare;
(ii) to rehabilitate disabled and displaced and aid them in finance or in other ways. Also
assist them if they are in need of medical treatment abroad;
(iii) to aid registered children's home, senior citizens' homes, homes for disabled, homes
for displaced and daycare centres;
(iv) to rehabilitate the individuals or families destituted due to terrorism or racial riots or
due to extraordinary situations or natural disaster may occur in future;
(v) to assist and aid people becoming destitute due to sudden disaster;
(vi) to help for needs in higher education of children of disabled parents and children of
poor families and destitute families, and give financial aid for primary education of
children of poor families and destitute families as decided by the authorized committee;
(vii) to provide aid on a medical certificate from a (specialist) medical officer, to patients
belonging to low income families for treatments of special diseases and surgery.
(2) Administration of the Fund:
(i) A board for a trust must be appointed to administrate the fund account. This trust
board will consist of three members officially appointed and two other representatives.
(ii) The members officially appointed would be the Secretary, the Accountant of Uva
Provincial Social Services and Social Welfare Ministry and the Director of Social
Services. The other two members should be named by the minister to represent Tamil
and Muslim communities who are interested in social services (When officially
appointed board members are Tamil and Muslim, the two members named by the
Minister should be a Buddhist and a Christian).
(iii) The period of nominated board members is three years. When appointing new
members after three years, prior members may be reappointed if needed.
(iv) Of ficially, the Chairman of the Trust Board would be the Secretary of the Ministry of
Social Services of Uva Province and the Director would be the Secretary. The treasurer
should be the Accountant of the Ministry.
(v) The Trust Board must meet at least once in three months.
(vi) ( a) The quorum of the meeting should be three.
(b) If not for half the attendance is given the consent for, no proposal shall be
considered as approved by the Trust Board.
Objectives of
  fund account
Uva Provincial
  Social Services Fund
  Account
Meetings of Trust
  Board
Quorum and
  approving of
  proposals

<!-- page 23 -->

23A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(vii) Convening meetings maintaining minutes and other records of them are the responsibilities
of the Secretary of that board.
(3) The ways of enriching the Fund Account :
(i) Through aid given by the Central Government or the Provincial Council,
(ii) By aid received from individuals or organizations,
(iii) Foreign aid received through the Government,
(iv) Other aid received on behalf of services performed,
(v) Money received through concerts, lotteries and other accepted means.
(4) The treasurer of the Trust Board should maintain the account and the auditing should be done
by the auditor appointed by the board. Auditing should be relevant to section No. 154 of the
Constitution of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(i) The financial year of this account should be from 1st of January to 31st December.
A suitable constitution should be constructed through the Minister's orders to fulfill the aims
of the fund.
(5) Should any member of the board be appointed as a Member of the Parliament, a Provincial
Council or Local Government Body, he/she would be disqualified to hold the membership of
the board from the due date of his/her new appointment.
(6) If any Member of the Trust Board becomes an offender at court or becomes guilty of misconduct,
he/she should be removed from the membership by the Minister.
PART II
Offences and Penalties
8. Any person breaking, neglecting or ignoring any rule or regulation formed under orders of this
precept or disturbing a person who is engaged to carryout the rules and regulations of this
precept or forwarding false data to consume the services mentioned in the precept would be an
offender under this precept:
(1) Any person found guilty for an offence under this precept before a magistrate, he/she shall be
subject to a fine of Rs. 5,000 or imprisonment for a period of not more than six months or both
the penalties,
(2) The minister can tan the functioning of any institute for breaking neglecting or ignoring the
rules and regulations of this precept.
PART III
General Rules and Regulations
9. The Minister is entitled to construct rules entrusted by this precept for all matters that may be
needed according to the precept:
Account of the
  fund
Rules regarding
  the fund
  disqualifications
  of membership
Composition of the
  fund account

<!-- page 24 -->

24A  IV(w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
(1) Every order made by the Minister should be published in the gazette, and they should be made to implement from
the date of published or a due date given. Every order made by the Minister should be forwarded to the Provincial
council for the approval within three months from the date published in the Gazette, It should be preannounced
through the Gazette whether that order was approved by the provincial council or not when publishing it, it should
be considered that the amendment should not damage the work done under prior order,
(2) The date of any amendment of any order should be published in the gazette.
10. Provincial Councils Act, No. 42 of 1987 should be relevant in financing and expending of institutes established under
this precept.
11. Unless for another meaning is needed the meaning of the following words included in this precept should be understood
as thus :--
(1) ''The Minister'' the Minister-in-Charge of the subject of social services,
(2) ''Secretary of the Ministry'' the Secretary of the Ministry responsible for the subject of social services,
(3) "The Director" the Director of Social Services of Uva Province appointed under the Provincial Council Act 42 of
1987;
(4) "Incidential ways of disaster" Minor damage happening beyond control of an individual found not much commonly;
(5) "The disables" persons with deform of hands or legs, dumbness, deafness and persons mentally retarded and
physically handycapped;
(6) "The poor" people who would be unable to maintain their lives if they are not supplied and for their basic regiments;
(7) "Fund Account" the account established under section 7 of the precept to manage the fund;
(8) "Charity allowance" A financial aid given monthly to poor elders, persons with sicknesses or mental or physical
defects;
(9) "V oluntary" An organization formed by groups of citizens for social development without expecting any profit, with
a non-Government nature, with an aim of merely serving the dependents on local and foreign aid, mental and
physical disabled, the poor, the displaced, the restituted, by helping with supplying aid get oral and residential
services and supplying relief aid at natural disasters, with the Public, Government aid, local and foreign donations.
12. If any incompatibility arises between the Sinhala and Tamil versions of this precept, the Sinhala version should be
considered as the Original.
02-49/4
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
An amended Statute to make payments of salaries and allowances
for the members of the Public Services Commission
Provincial Council/Payment of Salaries and Allowances
 amended statute No. 09 of 2010 of the Uva Province Provincial Council
THE above Statute having approved by the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka on the 09th of December, 2010, has
been approved by the Hon. Governor of the Uva Province on the date  24th of December, 2010 and which is hereby published
for the notification of the public.
K. D. S
IRISENA,
Secretary,
Uva Province Provincial Council.
Council Secretariat,
Uva Province Provincial Council,
Kings Street,
Badulla.
03rd January, 2011.

<!-- page 25 -->

25A IV (w) jeks fldgi – YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h – 2011'01'20
PART IV(A) – GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 20.01.2011
UV A  PROVINCE  PROVINCIAL  COUNCIL
PROVINCIAL COUNCIL  (PAYMENTS OF SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES)
AMENDED STATUTE  NO. 09 OF 2010
An  Amended  Statute  to make Payments of  Salaries and Allowances  for the members of the Public
Services Commission of  Uva Province Provincial Council
Be it enacted by  the Uva  Provincial Council of the Demcratic Socialilst Republic of Sri Lanka as
Follows :-
1. This statute may be cited  as the  Provincial  Councils (Payment of  Salaries and Allowances)
amended Statute, No. 09 of 2010 and shall come into operation on such date as may be approved
by the Governor of Uva Province.
2. Date of operation of the Statute and after -
(A) A sum of Rs. 15,000/- paid to the Chairman of the Public Services Commission of the Uva
Province Provincial Council as an allowance;
(B) A sum of Rs. 10,000/- has to be paid to a Member of the Public Services Commission of the Uva
Province Provi ncial Council as a monthly Allowance with effect from 01st January, 2006.
3. The Allowances paid for the Chairman and the Members of the Provincial Public Services of the
Uva Province Provincial Council and be a credit to the Provincial Council Fund under this
Statute.
02-49/5
Short title and Date
of Operation
Payment of Salaries
and Allowances be a
credit to the
Provincial Council
Fund of the
Province
Salaries and
Allowances paid for
the Chairman and
the Members of the
Public Services of
Uva Province
Provincial Council
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.