

<!-- page 1 -->

w;s úfYI
wxl 2382$11 - 2024 wfm%a,a ui 30 jeks w`.yrejdod - 2024'04'30
No. 2382/11  -  tuesday,   april  30,  2024
EXTRAORDINARY
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART I : SECTION (I) — GENERAL
Government Notifications
1a - pG 6737 - 404 (05/2024) 
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
PAYmENT  AND  SETTLEmENT  SYSTEmS  ACT,  No.  28  Of  2005
mONEY  OR  VALuE  TRANSfER  SERVICE  PROVIDERS  REGuLATIONS  No.  1  Of 2024
reGulatiONs made by the Minister of Finance, economic stabilization and National policies under section 17 of the 
payment and settlement systems act, No. 28 of 2005, read with section 11 thereof
 Ranil WickRemesinghe,
 Minister of Finance, economic stabilization and
 National policies.
Colombo,
20th april, 2024.
Regulations
 1. these regulations may be cited as the Money or Value transfer service providers regulations No. 1 of 2024 
(hereinafter referred to as “the regulations”).
 2. (a) the Central Bank of sri lanka (hereinafter referred to as “the Central Bank”) shall function as the regulatory 
and supervisory authority of Money or Value transfer service providers (hereinafter referred to as “MVts 
providers”) and shall be responsible for regulation and supervision of MVts providers.
	 	 (b)	 The	 Central	Bank	may	authorize	any	of	its	officers	in	writing	to	carry	out	the	functions	of	the	Central	Bank	in	
accordance with the provisions of these regulations.

<!-- page 2 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.04.2024
2a
	 3.	 In	these	Regulations	“Money	or	Value	Transfer	Service	(hereinafter	referred	to	as	“MVTS”)”	means	“financial	
services that involve the acceptance of cash, cheques, other monetary instruments or other stores of value and the 
payment	of	a	corresponding	sum	in	cash	or	other	forms	to	a	beneficiary	by	means	of	communication,	message,	
transfer, or through a clearing network to which the registered Money or Value transfer service provider belongs. 
Such	transactions	may	involve	one	or	more	intermediaries	and	a	final	payment	to	a	third	party,	and	may	be	from	place	
to place, within, to or from sri lanka or any other country.”
 4. No person shall engage in the business of or function as a MVts provider except under the authority and in 
accordance	with	the	terms	and	conditions	of	a	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	by	the	Central	Bank.
     provided however that the provisions of these regulations shall not apply to a person who is already engaged 
in or is eligible to engage in the business of or function as a Money or Value transfer service provider under any 
other licence, permit or authorization issued by the Central Bank, or any other regulator or Government entity.
 5. (a) in order to be eligible to apply for a registration to engage in the business of or function as a MVts provider, 
a person shall-
 i. be a company registered under the Companies act, No. 7 of 2007 having an unimpaired capital of at least 
rupees twenty Million (20 Million) or such other amount determined by the Central Bank, other than a 
company limited by guarantee, an offshore company or an overseas company within the meaning of the 
Companies act, No. 7 of 2007, 
 ii. exclusively carry out businesses and activities of a MVts provider, and
	 iii.	 maintain/operate	a	system	or	well-defined	mechanism	for	providing	MVTS.
  (b) an eligible person mentioned in paragraph (a) above may engage in the business of or function as a MVts 
provider in respect of money transmission and safekeeping of funds to the extent necessary in order to facilitate 
providing	MVTS,	under	the	authority	of	a	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	by	the	Central	Bank	in	terms	of	
these regulations.
  (c) existing MVts providers who are already providing services without any licence, permit or authorization 
issued	by	the	Central	Bank,	or	any	other	Regulator	or	Government	entity	shall	apply	for	a	Certificate	of	
registration within one year from the effective date of these regulations and shall be allowed to continue their 
business till they receive a communication from the Central Bank with regard to their application, provided 
that	the	application	for	a	certificate	for	registration	is	duly	logged	within	the	prescribed	period.
 6. (a) an eligible person who intends to engage in the business of or function as a MVts provider shall make an 
application,	for	registration	in	a	form	of	application	specified	by	the	Central	Bank.
  (b) an eligible person who intends to engage in the business of or function as a MVts provider shall include the 
details of the MVts system or mechanism with the application.
	 	 (c)	 The	 Central	Bank	may	issue	a	Certificate	of	Registration	to	engage	in	the	business	of	or	function	as	a	MVTS	
Provider	on	being	satisfied	of	the	contents	of	the	application,	documents,	information,	and	other	particulars	
that are required to be submitted with the application and any such other documents or information required by 
the Central Bank.
	 	 (d)	 The	Central	Bank	may	refuse	to	issue	a	Certificate	of	Registration	without	giving	any	reason	therefor.
	 	 (e)	 The	 Certificate	of	Registration	issued	under	paragraph	(c)	of	this	regulation	may	be	subject	to	conditions	
specified	in	the	Certificate	of	Registration	itself	or	in	a	Schedule	to	the	Certificate	of	Registration.

<!-- page 3 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.04.2024
3a
	 7.	 (a)	 The	applicant	shall	pay	a	registration	fee	to	the	Central	Bank,	upon	receiving	a	notification	from	the	Central	
Bank after submission of an application as per paragraph (a) of regulation 6.
	 	 (b)	 Once	 a	Certificate	of	Registration	is	issued	and	until	such	registration	remains	in	force,	an	annual	fee	shall	be	
paid to the Central Bank and such payments shall be made within the month of January of each calendar year.
  (c) the Central Bank may determine the registration fee and the annual fee from time to time.
	 	 (d)	 The	 Certificate	of	Registration	issued,	shall	be	renewed	in	every	3	years	as	specified	in	the	Guidelines	issued	
under these regulations.
	 8.	 A	person	issued	with	a	Certificate	of	Registration	under	paragraph	(c)	of	regulation	6	is	hereinafter	referred	to	as	a	
“registered MVts provider”.
	 9.	 Every	Registered	MVTS	Provider	shall	display	a	copy	of	the	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	to	it	under	paragraph	
(c) of regulation 6 at its principal place of business and each of its branches, if any. 
	 10.	 (a)	 A	Registered	MVTS	Provider	may	appoint	Agents,	subject	to	the	instructions	issued	under	this	regulation.
  (b) the agents appointed under (a) above shall display a copy of the appointment letter from the registered 
MVts provider with the duly placed stamp at the place of business.
	 11.	 Every	Registered	MVTS	Provider,	subject	to	paragraph	(c)	of	regulation	6,	shall;
  (a) be entitled to engage in the business of or function as a MVts provider only in respect of the business 
specified	in	these	Regulations;
	 	 (b)	 transmit	money,	between	Registered	MVTS	Providers	and	 Agents,	by	way	of	bank	transfers;
	 	 (c)	 maintain	 records	of	Agents,	associates,	employees	engaging	in	the	activities	carried	out	under	the	Certificate	
of	Registration	for	MVTS	Business;	and
	 	 (d)	 maintain	 records	of	transactions	including	details	of	Transmitter,	Beneficiary,	Agent,	the	method	of	transfer,	
period of safe keeping, etc.
	 12.	 No	Registered	MVTS	Provider	or	its	Agents	shall	engage	in	any	of	the	following	activities	under	the	Certificate	
of registration issued by the Central Bank, except with the authority of a license, permission, authorization or 
registration	as	may	be	applicable	in	terms	of	the	applicable	law	for	the	time	being;
  (a) acceptance of deposits
  (b) Foreign exchange dealings
  (c) Granting of loans
  (d) activities that require a license, pennit, authorization or registration under any act including Banking act, No. 
30 of 1988, Finance Business act, No. 42 of 2011, Foreign exchange act, No. 12 of 2017, local treasury 
Bills Ordinance, No. 8 of 1923, registered stock and securities Ordinance, No. 7 of 1937, Central Bank of sri 
lanka act, No. 16 of 2023, payment and settlement systems act, No.28 of 2005, or any amendment to such 
acts or Ordinances or any regulations issued thereunder
  (e) activities that are restricted by any other law or any direction or regulations issued by the Central Bank
	 13.	 The	Registered	MVTS	Provider	and	its	Agents	shall	not	include	in	its	name	words	such	as	bank,	financial	institution,	
investment company, money or currency exchange, real estate, or any other words indicative of activities other than 
as a MVts providing business.
 14. every registered MVts provider shall inform the Central Bank, in writing, of any change in its name, address of 
registered	office,	board	of	directors,	key	personnel	of	the	business	or	Articles	of	Association	within	three	working	
days of such change being effective.

<!-- page 4 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.04.2024
4a
	 15.	 (a)	 The	Central	Bank	may,	if	it	is	proved	to	the	satisfaction	of	the	Central	Bank	that	a	Registered	MVTS	Provider;
	 i.	 has	furnished	false	or	incorrect	information	or	omitted	any	material	information;	or
 ii. has failed to comply with any provision of the act, any regulation, direction, directive, rule, condition, 
circular,	guideline	or	instruction	issued	under	the	Act;	or
	 iii.	 has	failed	to	take	corrective	measures	as	required	by	the	Central	Bank	within	the	period	specified	by	the	
Central	Bank;	or
	 iv.	 is	insolvent	or	likely	to	be	insolvent;	or
	 v.	 has	been	convicted	of	any	offence	by	a	court	of	law;	or
	 vi.	 is	continuously	engaging	in	such	practices	that	pose	a	threat	to,	or	undermines	Financial	System	Stability;
	 	 give	 notice	that	the	Central	Bank	will	cancel	the	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	to	such	Registered	MVTS	Provider.
	 	 (b)	 The	 Registered	MVTS	Provider	who	is	given	the	notice	under	paragraph	(a)	above	may	tender	objections	in	
writing to the Central Bank against the notice of intended cancellation, within fourteen days of the date of such 
notice,	giving	reasons	as	to	why	the	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	to	such	Registered	MVTS	Provider	under	
paragraph (c) of regulation 6 should not be so cancelled.
	 	 (c)	 The	 Central	Bank	may,	within	thirty	days	from	the	last	date	for	tendering	objections	under	paragraph	(b)	
above,	after	considering	the	objections	tendered	under	that	paragraph,	if	any,	and	after	hearing	the	Registered	
MVTS	Provider	in	support	of	its	objections,	either	withdraw	the	notice	given	under	paragraph	(a)	above	with	
or	without	conditions	or	cancel	the	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	to	the	Registered	MVTS	Provider,	and	
shall notify such registered MVts provider in writing accordingly.
	 16.	 Where	a	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	to	a	Registered	MVTS	Provider	has	been	cancelled,	the	Central	Bank	shall	
direct such MVts provider to forthwith cease and discontinue the business relating to MVts. the Central Bank 
may take any action necessary to carry out such decision of the Central Bank in accordance with the provisions of 
the act.
 17. the Central Bank may carry out on-site examinations and off-site surveillance on business relating to MVts of any 
registered MVts provider.
 18. (a)  every registered MVts provider shall provide documents, information and other particulars that may be 
required	by	the	Central	Bank	or	any	officer	authorized	by	the	Central	Bank	for	the	purpose	of	carrying	out	the	
activities stipulated in the section 11 and 16 of the act, including on-site examinations and off-site surveillance 
or to evaluate the capacity of the registered MVts provider to continue its operations as a registered MVts 
provider.
  (b) every registered MVts provider shall comply with the Convention on the suppression of terrorist Financing 
act, No. 25 of 2005, prevention of Money laundering act, No. 5 of 2006, Financial transactions reporting 
act, No. 6 of 2006, any amendment thereto and regulations, directions, rules guidelines, instructions issued 
thereunder and shall provide any documents, information and other particulars that may be required by the 
Financial intelligence unit for the purpose of carrying out anti-Money laundering and Countering the 
Financing of terrorism supervision.
 19. (a) if it is revealed in an on-site examination and/or off-site surveillance or inspection conducted on any information 
received,	that	a	Registered	MVTS	Provider;
	 i.	 is	unable	to	carry	out	business	relating	to	MVTS	business;	or
 ii. is engaged in unsafe and/or unsound practices in the course of business relating to MVts business which 
is	likely	to	affect	the	financial	system	stability;	or

<!-- page 5 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.04.2024
5a
 iii. is conducting the business or activities in such a manner that may be detrimental to the protection of 
customers	and	to	the	integrity,	improvements	and	smooth	functioning	of	financial	system;	or
 iv. is in violation of these regulations and/or the act
  the Central Bank shall direct such registered MVts provider to forthwith suspend its business and to take corrective 
measures	in	such	manner,	subject	to	such	conditions	and	within	such	period	as	may	be	determined	by	the	Central	
Bank.
  (b) if the registered MVts provider fails to implement such corrective measures, the Central Bank may cancel 
the registration in tenns of regulation 15 above.
 20. (a) Where the Board of directors of any registered MVts provider decides to voluntarily discontinue its business, 
registered MVts provider shall notify the Central Bank immediately of such decision and within seven days 
from	the	date	of	such	decision	shall;
 i. inform the reasons for discontinuation of business or inability to continue the business relating to MVts 
business;	and
 ii. submit a detailed proposal of the manner of handling the existing obligations and method for providing 
the agreed services.
  (b) upon intimation of the decision to discontinue the business of a registered MVts provider, the Central Bank 
may	issue	directions	as	to	the	manner	of	termination	and	conditions	subject	to	which	such	termination	shall	
take place.
 21. the Central Bank may, from time to time, issue directions, directives, rules, conditions, circulars, guidelines or 
instructions to any one or more registered MVts providers, regarding the manner in which any aspect of the 
business	of	all	or	any	category	of	Registered	MVTS	Providers	is	to	be	conducted.	Without	prejudice	to	the	foregoing,	
the Central Bank may issue directions, directives, rules, conditions, circulars, guidelines or instructions specifying -
 
	 	 (a)	 governance,	risk	management	and	control;
	 	 (b)	 capital	adequacy	and	other	capital	requirements;
	 	 (c)	 limits	on	usage	of	MVTS	businesses;
	 	 (d)	 fees	and	charges	applicable	to	customers	obtaining	services	of	Registered	MVTS	Providers;
	 	 (e)	 measures	necessary	for	protection	of	customers	and	Registered	MVTS	Providers;
	 	 (f)	 arrangements	with	 Agents,	subsidiaries	and	any	outsourced	parties	in	respect	of	MVTS	business;
	 	 (g)	 the	security	features	of	technology	relating	to	money	transmission;
	 	 (h)	 business	and	investment	limitations;
	 	 (i)	 dissemination	of	information	regarding	MVTS	business;
	 	 (j)	 display	of	information;
	 	 (k)	 safe	keeping	of	funds	and	related	requirements;	and
  (l) any other requirement that the Central Bank may deem necessary.
	 22.	 Where	a	Certificate	of	Registration	issued	under	paragraph	(c)	of	regulation	6	is	cancelled	under	regulation	15,	
such	cancellation	shall	be	notified	to	the	general	public	by	the	Central	Bank	by	publication	of	at	least	one	notice	in	
sinhala, tamil and english newspapers or by a press release.
	 23.	 (a)	 Upon	the	issuance	of	a	Certificate	of	Registration	to	an	eligible	applicant,	the	Central	Bank	may	cause	to	
be published in at least one sinhala, tamil and english daily newspapers circulating in sri lanka, a notice 
informing	the	public	that	a	Certificate	of	Registration	has	been	issued	to	such	applicant	authorizing	it	to	carry	
on MVts in accordance with these regulations.

<!-- page 6 -->

I fldgi ( ^I& fPoh - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2024'04'30
Part I : Sec. (I) - GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA - 30.04.2024
6a
  (b) the Central Bank may notify the general public the updated list of registered MVts providers by the 
publication of at least one notice in sinhala, tamil and english newspapers or by a press release, semiannually.
 24. Where the Central Bank is of the opinion that any advertisement published, transmitted, broadcast, telecast or 
displayed by the registered MVts provider is in violation of the provisions of the act, regulations made thereunder 
or directions, guidelines or instructions issued under the act or these regulations, or is likely to mislead the public, 
the Central Bank may require the registered MVts provider to discontinue the publication, transmission, broadcast, 
telecast	or	display	of	such	advertisements	or	to	change	such	advertisements	within	a	specified	period	of	time.
 25. these regulations shall be in effect from 03rd June 2024.
 26. in these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:
“Act”	means	the	Payment	and	Settlement	Systems	Act,	No.	28	of	2005;
“Agent”	means	an	entity	appointed	by	the	Registered	MVTS	Provider	for	the	provision	of	MVTS;
“Certificate	of	Registration”	shall	mean	the	Registration	issued	by	the	Central	Bank	for	a	company	to	engage	in	
MVTS	business	under	this	Regulations;
“Day”	means	a	calendar	day;
“safe keeping” means keeping of money to the extent of facilitating money transmission within the limits 
stipulated	by	the	Central	Bank;
“Unimpaired	Capital”	shall	mean	capital	on	which	there	is	no	lien	or	other	charges;
“Beneficiary”	means	the	intended	recipient	of	the	money	that	the	Transmitter	is	sending	through	the	service	of	a	
Registered	MVTS	Provider;
“t ransmitter” means a person who initiate the money transfer and/or give the transmission order to the registered 
MVTS	Provider;
eOG 05 - 0009
            
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING,  SRI LANKA.