

<!-- page 1 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
867
wxl 1"774 - 2012 wf.daia;= 30 jeks n%yiam;skaod - 2012'08'30
No. 1,774  – THURSDAY , AUGUST 30, 2012
(Published by Authority)
PART IV (B) — LOCAL GOVERNMENT
(Separate paging is given to each language of every Part in order that it may be filed separately)
PAGE
Statements of Revenue & Expenditure ... —
Budgets ... – –
Miscellaneous Notices ... ––
PAGE
Posts - Vacants ... 868
Examinations, Results of Examinations, &c. ... ––
Local Government Notifications ... 872
By-Laws ... ––
Notices under the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance —
867
YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of  Sri Lanka
IMPORTANT  NOTICE  REGARDING  ACCEPTANCE  OF  NOTICES
FOR  PUBLICATION  IN  THE  WEEKLY  “GAZETTE”
ATTENTION is drawn to the Notification appearing in the 1st week of every month, regarding the latest dates and times of accept ance
of Notices for publication in the weekly Gazettes, at the end of every weekly Gazette of Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazettes  shall close at 12.00 noon of each Friday, two weeks before the date of
publication. All Government Departments, Corporations, Boards, etc. are hereby advised that Notifications fixing closing dates and times
of applications in respect of Post-vacancies, Examinations, Tender Notices and dates and times of Auction Sales, etc. should be  prepared
by giving adequate time both from the date of despatch of notices to Govt. Press and from the date of publication, thereby enab ling those
interested in the contents of such notices to actively and positively participate please note that inquiries and complaints mad e in respect
of corrections pertaining to notification will not be entertained after three months  from the date of publication.
All Notices to be published in the weekly Gazette should reach Government Press two weeks before the date of publication i.e.
Notices for publication in the weekly Gazette of 21st September, 2012 should reach Government Press on or before 12.00 noon on 07th
September, 2012.
B. K. S. R A VINDRA,
 Acting Government Printer.
Department of Govt. Printing,
Colombo 08,
June 23, 2012.
N.B.— Parts III and IV(A) of the Gazette No. 1,773 of 24.08.2012 were not published.
The Catalogue of books printed quarterly in January– March, 2009 has been published in Part V of this gazette.

<!-- page 2 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
868
Posts – Vacant
KOTHMALE   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
APPLICATION are called for the recruitemnt post in the Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha, from the permanent resident in the authoritative area
of Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha (Preference will be given to those, who are employed in Pradeshiya Sabha on the basis of casual/substitude).
Serial Name of the No. of the Salary Scale monthly Educational Qualification
No. Posts Posts (as P . A. C. No. 6/2006 IV)
01 Street Labour 03 PL1- Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- Should have passed G. C. E. O/L at least Six
10x145- 12x160 -Rs. 17,600 subjects with two credit pass and four simple
pass and not more than two times of sitting
in Sinhala medium or Tamil medium for the
exam.
02 Water Labour 02 PL1- Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- Should have passed G. C. E. O/L at least Six
10x145- 12x160 -Rs. 17,600 subjects with two credit pass and four simple
pass and not more than two times of sitting
in Sinhala medium or Tamil medium for the
exam.
03 Sani Labour 02 PL1- Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- Should have passed G. C. E. O/L at least Six
10x145- 12x160 -Rs. 17,600 subjects with two credit pass and four simple
pass and not more than two times of sitting
in Sinhala medium or Tamil medium for the
exam.
04 Library Assistant 01 PL1- Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- Should have passed G. C. E. O/L at least Six
10x145- 12x160 -Rs. 17,600 subjects with two credit pass and four simple
pass and not more than two times of sitting
in Sinhala medium or Tamil medium for the
exam.
05 Library Labour 01 PL1- Rs. 11,730-10x120-10x 130- Should have passed G. C. E. O/L at least Six
10x145- 12x160 -Rs. 17,600 subjects with two credit pass and four simple
pass and not more than two times of sitting
in Sinhala medium or Tamil medium for the
exam.
02. Other qualification required  :
(i) Applicant must be a citizen of Sri Lanka ;
(ii) Should be an excellent character and sound physique ;
(iii) Applicant should be a permanent resident within the authoritative area of Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha for a period of 03
years immediately before the closing date of the application (The voters list or a certificate obtained from the Divisional
Secretary, should be submitted to proof the residence) ;
(iv) Age not less than 18 years and not more than 45 years at the closing date of the application (upper limit is not applicable
for those who employed in the Public, Provincial Public Service) ;
(v) Appilcant should not have been convicted in court of law, under the Penal Code ;
(vi) The applicant should not be dimissed by the Public/Provincial Public Service/Local Government or Corproation Service ;
(vii) At the time of aceptance of applications from permanent employees in government or Provincial Councils they should not
received any punishment (other than warnings) and only those who have earned all increment and posses satisfactory
period of service.
03. Method of recruitment.– Recruitment will be made on the submission of applications through a structured interview.

<!-- page 3 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
869
04. Terms of Engagement :
(i) This posts are permanent and pensionable, should contribute to the W & OP ;
(ii) The appointments will be on probation for a period of 03 years ;
(iii) In ad dition to the recruitment, applicants will be required to company with the regulation in the Establishment Code,
Financial Regulation and rules and regulations of the Central Prvoincial Public Service, Acts and Ordinance relating Local
Government Institutions and orders issued by the Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha, from time to time.
01. Only the applicants who have fulfilled required minimum qualifications will be called for interview.
02. Method of Applications.– Applications prepared according to the specimen given below should be sent to the "Secretary -
Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha - Pundaluoya", under registered post on or before 15.10.2012 the post applied should be marked on the top left
hand corner of the envelope, enclosing the application.
The applicants who are already in the Provincial Public Service should forward their applications though their respective Heads
of institutes. Applications which are received after the closing date will be rejected.
The Secretary to the Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha reserves all such power to delay or later such process or cancel this notice.
K. M. D. G . M
UTHUBANDA,
Secretary,
Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha.
Office in Pradeshiya Sabha, Kothmale,
Pundaluoya,
17th of August, 2012.
Recruitment to the Post in Kothmale Pradeshiya Sabha – 2012
APPLICATION FOR THE POST OF ............................
01. Name with initials :–––––––––––.
Names denoted by initials :–––––––––––.
02. District of permanent residence :–––––––––––.
03. Permanent address :–––––––––––.
04. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––.
05. Age of closing date of applications :
Years :–––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––.
06. National Identity Card No. :–––––––––––.
07. Sex :–––––––––––.
08. Civil status :–––––––––––.
09. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka either by decent or of by registration :–––––––––––.
10. Educational qualification (details of examination passed) :–––––––––––.
11. Professional qualifications (should be supported with the certificates) :–––––––––––.
12. Work experience :–––––––––––.
13. Have you ever been convicted of any charge in Court of Law ? :–––––––––––.
14. Are you already employed in this Pradeshiya Sabha ? if so please mention the nature of appointment (Permanent/Casual/Temporary)
:–––––––––––.
I declare that the particular furnished in this application are true and correct to the best of my knowledge and belief. I am aware
that I am liable to be disqualified before the appointment, if the information furnished by me are found to be false as per the condition of
recruitment and I am liable to dismissal after selection to this post.
––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––.

<!-- page 4 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
870
Certificate of Head of Institution for the applicants who are already in the Public Service :– The applicant Mr./Mrs./Miss/Master
...................... is presently employed in this institution as ....................................... He/She, can/cannot be released from the service. I certify
that he/she has not been subjected to any form of disciplinary (except warning) and I recommend and forward the application.
–––––––––––––,
Signature of Head of Department.
Name :–––––––––––.
Designation :–––––––––––.
Department/Institution :–––––––––––.
Date :–––––––––––.
08–888
––––––––––––––––––––––
PATHADUMBARA   PRADESHIYA   SABHA
Recruitment for the Posts of Road Labourer for Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha in
Central Provincial Government Service
APPLICATIONS are invited for the following posts at the Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha in the Central Provincial Government Service,
from the permanent residents within the limits of the Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha, possessing the required qualifications stated in this
notice.
Application prepared as per specimen shown at the end of this ntoice should be sent under registered cover quoting the post
applied on the top left hand corner of the envelope, to reach the "Secretary, Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha, Pitiyegedara, Wattegama" on
or before the 01.10.2012.
Name of Post Number of Monthly Salary Scale Minimum Educational Qualifications
V acancies
Road Labourer 02 06/2006/IV-PLI Should have passed at-least in six subjects at the
Rs. 11,730- 120x10 - 130x10- 145x10- G . C. E. (O/L) exam including Sinhalese/Tamil
160x12 - Rs. 17,600 in not more than two sittings.
Other General Conditions :
(i) Applicants should not be less than 18 years and over 45 years of age, at the time of the closing date of application. (The age
limit will not apply to those who are in permanent service in the Government or Local Government Serivce).
(ii) The applicants should be citizens of Sri Lanka by descend or by registration.
(iii) Applicant should be a permanent resident within the area of authority of the Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha, at-least for
three years, prior to the closing date of application. (This should be proved by a voter's extract or a certificate from the
Divisional Secretary).
(iv) Applicant should bear a good character and be sound in health. If selected he should appear for a medical test before a doctor
within a period of one month. If found physically unfit, the appointment will be cancelled.
(v) Applicant should not have been punished by a Court of Law, after being found guilty for criminal offence.
(vi) Applicants should have obtained at-least the minimum qualifications and working experience of those who are currently
working under casual, substitute or daily basis will be considered as advanced qualification.
(vii) In addition to the conditions and regulations of recruitment, the applicants should act in accordance with the regulations of
the Establishment Code of the Sri Lankan Republic and the Financial Regulations and the orders issued from time to time
by the Central Provincial Council and the Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha.
(viii) The applicant should not be a person dismissed from Government or Local Government Service or a person retired under
Public Administration Circular, No. 44/90.
(ix) Applicant should not be a person engaged in Armed Forces and Security Service as per other statutory Provisions and not
released lawfully.

<!-- page 5 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
871
Conditions of Service :
(i) This post is permanent and pensionable. Applicant should contribute to Widows and Orphan Pension Fund/Widowers
and Orphan Pension Fund.
(ii) Selected candidates should be subject to three years probation period and liable to be discontinued from service, if his
work, conduct and attendance are found to be unsatisfactory during this period.
04. Submission of Application.– Perfect and forward the application prepared as per specimen appears below, with copies of the
following certificates to reach "The Secretary, Pradeshiya Sabha Pathadumbara, Pitiyegedara, Wattegama" on or before 01.10.2012 :
(i) Birth Certificate,
(ii) Educational Certificates,
(iii) District Secretary's Certificate to prove the occupancy,
(iv) Two character certificates obtained recently,
(v) Professional or experience certificate, if any.
05. Only the applicants who have fulfilled the basic qualifications, will be called for an interview.
P. H. DHARMARATHNE,
Secretary,
Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha.
At Pathadumbara Pradeshiya Sabha,
13th August, 2012.
SPECIMEN APPLICA TION FORM
FILLING OF VACANCIES IN CENTRAL PROVINCIAL GOVERNMENT SERVICE - PATHADUMBARA PRADESHIYA SABHA
APPLICATION FOR A POST OF ROAD LABOURER
01. Name with initials :–––––––––––––.
Name denoted by initials :–––––––––––––.
02. Permanent address :–––––––––––––.
03. Date of birth :
Year :–––––––––––––,  Month :–––––––––––––,  Date :–––––––––––––.
04. Age on the closing date of the application :
Years :–––––––––––––,  Months :–––––––––––––,  Days :–––––––––––––.
05. Married/Single :–––––––––––––.
06. Nationality :–––––––––––––.
07. Whether you are a citizen of Sri Lanka ? If so by descend or registration ? :–––––––––––––.
08. Educational qualfications :
G . C. E. (O/L) Exam :–––––––––––––.
Year of Exam :–––––––––––––. Index No. :–––––––––––––.
Subject Grade Subject Grade
1. 5.
2. 6.
3. 7.
4. 8.
09. (i) Other qualifications :–––––––––––––.
(ii) Professional qualifications :–––––––––––––.

<!-- page 6 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
872
(iii) Service experience :–––––––––––––.
(iv) Certificates of examinations and other qualifications should be forwarded with the application :–––––––––––––.
10. Name of the present post, if you are already attached to service at the Pradeshiya Sabhawa :–––––––––––––.
Whether in the category of casual/temporary/substitude ? :–––––––––––––.
Date of appointemnt to the post :–––––––––––––.
11. Have you ever been found guilty for an offence by any Court of Law ? :–––––––––––––.
I do hereby certify that the information furnished in thsi application form are true and accurate to  the best of my knowledge. I am
aware that if any of the information furnished herein is found to be false. I will be disqualified for recruitment before the appointment, and
liable to be dismissed from service without any compensation if found after the appointment.
–––––––––––––––,
Signature of the Applicant.
Date :–––––––––––––.
08–794
Local Government Notifications
BALAPITIYA   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Notice for Naming the Road
UNDER Section 198 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 Local Government Minister of Province approval has been obtained for
name the following road proposed name.
SUB SCHEDULE
Presently used in name Proposed
Kosgoda Hiddaruwa Wathoya Road Majer Indu Asanka Aabru Mawatha.
A. DAYARATHNA DE SILV A,
Chairman,
Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha.
At Balapitiya Pradeshiya Sabha,
08th August, 2012.
08–927
––––––––––––––––––––
MULATIYANA   PRADESHIYA  SABHA
Notice under Section 24(1)(B) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987
MULATIY ANA Pradeshiya Sabha has decided under its Sabha Decision No. 20 taken at the General Meeting held on 28th June, 2012, to
declare the roads mentioned in the following Schedule as belonging to the Mulatiyana Pradeshiya Sabha.

<!-- page 7 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
873
It is hereby informed that any objection by the General Public living in the Mulatiyana Pradeshiya Sabha area or any person having
interests in the lands adjacent to this road should be made as per the Section 24(2) of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of 1987 and prove
their ownership within one month from the date this notice is published in the Gazette.
SUNIL ELLADENIYA,
Chaimran,
Mulatiyana Pradeshiya Sabha.
At Mulatiyana Pradeshiya Sabha,
On 27th July, 2012.
SCHEDULE 01
Name of the road : Roy Rajapaksha Mawatha
Point at which the road starts : Walagawatta Junction
Point at which the road ends : Bogaha Junction on the Urumutta-Makandura Road
Length of the road : 5,767M.
Width of the road : 30ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Beragama North/Diddenipotha North/Beragama-West.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mullagamage Diyelwata Hena Bandarage watta
Bandarage watta Storuhena
Etakehewarawa Land belonging to Mrs. B. A. Yasawathie
Roy Puraya Akkara Panas Paha Reservation
Roy Puraya Marambahena
Galpottawaththa Medakoratuwa
Roy Puraya Rukmalgahahena
Badukellahena Roy Puraya
Bandarage watta Reservation
Roy Puraya Janawasa Idama
Ensaldolahena Janawasa Koratuwa
Roy Puraya Janawasa Idama
Wannigewatta Pamantotawatta
Ketiyapehena Ulugahawatta
Roypuraya Bibulagodahena
Janawasa Number 01 Arambehena
Diddenipota Epitahawatta
Mesiri watta Halwattage watta
Pamantota watta Kospela Mandiyahena
S. K. Watta Paluwatta
Dalugewatta Wepathaira
Ranaweeragewatta Davatagaha Koratuwa
Arambahena Bibulagodahena
Halwattage watta Badukella
Deiyandara Kade Bogahawatta
Kukula Koratuwa Navatagaha Koratuwa
Pelawatta Galawatadeniya
Paluwatta Dalugedara
Masdeniya Kumburuyaya Kanugahawatta
Kurundu watta Tolabopandurahena
Bogahawatta Kanattawatta
Reservation Horamandiya
Galawatadeniya Udadolawatta
Methsiriwatta Udadoladeniya
Sathmini Uyana Dolegedarahena
Kanattawatta Kumburuyaya
Udadola W elewatta

<!-- page 8 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
874
Bhudeniya Kumbura Wilapahala
Wilewatta Wilewatta
Welewatta Kade Udawatte Kade
Mahahena Magahena
Kadegedara Wilewatta
Mahahena Galketiya watta
Wilapahala Galketiya
Galketiya Pahalawatta
Land belonging to Mr. Hemantha Pitteniyawatta
Land belonging to the temple of Sri Swarna Shylaramaya Pragahapitteniyawatta
Pahala Aluthge Urumuttegedara
Paragahapittaniya Watta Pragahapitteniyawatta
Kehelwala gedara Malimbadagedara
Talagahahena Pelawatta
Pelawatta Land belonging to Mr. Sunanda Weerasinghe
Pittaniya watta Pelawatta
Egodaha W adigawatta
Udahage Galketiya
Wadigawatta Kammalewatta
Kammalewatta Labugammana Paddy field
Labugammana Paddy Field Polgahadepeala
Etheniya
Godella Uda
Polkoratuwa
Godella Uda
SCHEDULE 02
Name of the road : Sapugahawatta Aluketiyawatta road (Ranasinghe Mawatha)
Point at which the road starts : Mahakumbura on the Gal Atumba road via Neralampitiya Sapugahawatta
Point at which the road ends : Aluketiya watta on the Danhena Neralampitiya road
Length of the road : 632.5M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Neralampitiya
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Sapugahawatta Maha Kumbura
Wel Ihala watta Nawatha Dola
Ela Maima Susana Boomiya
Wel Ihala Watta Seeweldola
Godamaga watta Oyagawatta
Oyagawatta Seeweldola Maima
Okanda watta
SCHEDULE 03
Name of the road : Gal Andawila road
Point at which the road starts : Arambawattahena Land
Point at which the road ends : Gal Andawila Paddy field
Length of the road : 500M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Gombaddala-South.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Gombaddala Watta Gombaddala Watta
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :

<!-- page 9 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
875
SCHEDULE 04
Name of the road : Road from Sandagala Junction to Pallokanda paddy field (Sarananda Mawatha)
Point at which the road starts : Sandagala Junction
Point at which the road ends : Pallokanda Paddy field
Length of the road : 546.9M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Gombaddala - South.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Dola Degoda Hena Atawatta
Bengamuwa Hena Dummalegawa
Galweta watta Pasgodahena
Dekanda Pallokanda
Uduwatura Hena
Kempitiwala
Deiyandara Hena
Pallokanda
SCHEDULE 05
Name of the road : Sil Arama road
Point at which the road starts : At the Galagaliyadda paddy field on the Neralampitiya road (21st mile post)
Point at which the road ends : At Sanasa bank, Neralampitiya on the Neralampitiya Ketapalakanda road
Length of the road : 618.6M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Neralampitiya.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Konagahawatta Galagaliyadda
Land belonging to Mr. L. H. Ranasinghe Liyana Kumbura
Kirilipanagewatta Land belonging to Mr. L. H. Ranasinghe
Kajjugahawatta Liyanagawatta
Ilangawatta Kirilipanagewatta
At Sirimata Institute
Ilangawatta
Sanasa Bank premises, Neralampitiya
SCHEDULE 06
Name of the road : Gal Atumba road via Neralampitiya Sapugahawatta
Point at which the road starts : At Paranawatta on the Neralampitiya Ketapalakanda road
Point at which the road ends : At service center on the Handugala Deiyandara road
Length of the road : 1,404M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Neralampitiya/Gal Atumba
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Paranawatta Totawala deniya
Koratuwa Aramba Kumbura
Maddagawatta Maha Kumbura
Kanatta Kumbura Sapugahawatta
Malapalava Nugehena
Nugehena Julhena
Julhena Nugehena
Neralampitiya Mukalana watta Julhena

<!-- page 10 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
876
Kohilagahadeniya watta Bawattahena
Land belonging to Mrs. H. B. Sumanawathie Kohilagahadeniya watta
Dataniyahena W eenagahakoratuwa
Land belonging to Mr. D. P. Dissanayaka Egodakanatta watta
SCHEDULE 07
Name of the road : Pahalawatta Road
Point at which the road starts : Near Tunpealla bridge
Point at which the road ends : At Morawakadeniya and Sapumaniga Divelwatta
Length of the road : 563.6M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Mulatiyana/Neralampitiya
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Pathaduwa Seeweldola
Tunpeela Gamage watta
Kiriwella Uthuliyadda
Dansala Kumburuyaya Pahalawatta
Uthuliyadda Oyagawatta
Pahalawatta Sapumanigadewelwatta
Oyagawatta
Morawakadeniya
SCHEDULE 08
Name of the road : Liyanagewatta road
Point at which the road starts : At Koskade on the Ketapalakanda Neralampitiya road
Point at which the road ends : Land of Liyanagewatta
Length of the road : 345M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Neralampitiya
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Koskade Koskade
Maringawatta Maringawatta
Dolawatta Dolawatta
Liyanagewatta Liyanagewatta
Olimulla Kumbura
Liyanagewatta
SCHEDULE 09
Name of the road : Road from 21st mile post Mulatiyana to Neralampitiya
Point at which the road starts : At 21st mile post Omarigawatta Mulatiyana
Point at which the road ends : At Neralampitiya Junction
Length of the road : 1,099.1M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Mulatiyana/Neralampitiya
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Omarigawatta Tannahena
Tengawatta Dolekatudeniya
Land belonging to Ganegoda Temple Godakanna Kumbura
Ganegoda Maha Aramba
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :

<!-- page 11 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
877
Aluthgedara Bogahaliyadda
Bogahawatta Hegaspella
Medawatta Pathkaduwa
Tunpella Kongahakella
Galagaliyadda Kongahawatta
Kongahawatta
SCHEDULE 10
Name of the road : Ihalaingoda road
Point at which the road starts : At Angaha Junction on the Kudapana Pitabeddara road
Point at which the road ends : At Watte Junction on the road from Soldarakada Junction to Kempitawala
Length of the road : 1,624.9M.
Width of the road : 22ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Gombaddala - South.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Gombaddala Watta Aluthhena
Pittaniya Gombaddala Watta
Udameddahehena Ihalagodahena
Koratuwahena Gombaddala watta
Doladegodahena Pettara Kanatiya Deniya Kumbura
Polgahaniyagewatta W eliheen Deniya Kumbura
Welihena watta Polgahanige watta
Pranawattahena Weerasinghe watta
Pelagetihena Nawal ahena
Samarasinghe Koratuwa Pelaketiyahena watta
Ihalaiiyangodawatta Galgodahena
Gombaddala Watta Batakola Gedarahena
Gombaddalawatta
SCHEDULE 11
Name of the road : Gombaddala Pambawila road
Point at which the road starts : At Ihalahengoda Paddy field
Point at which the road ends : Pambawila deniya Paddy field
Length of the road : 1,314.7M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Gombaddala - South.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Polgahanige Watta Udumulla Kumbura
Pambawila Hena Koratuwa Hena
Koratuwa Hena Koongahadeniya Hena
Maddumagewatta Hena Bombuketiya watta
Bombuketiya watta Reservation of Mulatiyana
Reservation of Mulatiyana Pambawila
Pambawila
Minuwanwila
SCHEDULE 12
Name of the road : Koramburuwana Mettananda Nahimi Mawatha
Point at which the road starts : Koraburuwana Junction
Point at which the road ends : At Egodahalanga Junction on the Horapawita Paddy field road
Length of the road : 4,460.4M.
Width of the road : 24ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Koramburuwana/Meepawita/Horapawita.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :

<!-- page 12 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
878
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Koraburuwana Playground Land belonging to Mr. Wijayarathne Jayawardhana
Serugaha Koratuwa Gepala
Pilikannage Watta Udubokkawatta
Tunbodhiya Temple Koraburuwana School
Beragama Watta Sapugahawatta
Galwetiyage watta Serugaha Koratuwa
Land belonging to Mrs. Chandanie Malawara Arachchi Koggala gedara
Okanda Watta Pilikannage watta
Land belonging to Mrs. H. G . Wanniarachchi Varsha Kurundu watta
Milla gaha Koratuwa Land of Tun bodhiya temple
Land belonging to Mr. Upul Wanni Arachchi Tea plant watta
Pol Attage watta Beragama watta
Denagama Gedara Galwetiyage watta
Bimbeerigaha Koratuwa Aluth watta
Madinige Watta Land of Mrs. Premawathie
Dabahela Watta Land of Paluwatta
Mega Watta Polwattage watta
Maha gedara Menikgaha Koratuwa
Madinige Watta Madinige watta
Paranagedara Dambahela watta
Malleha Watta Madinige watta
Honda gedara watta Parana gedara
Madiniga watta Meepawita Yaya
Kambale Koratuwa Palleha watta
Diwel watta Honda Gedara watta
Madinige watta Malleha watta
Vedige watta Kambale Koratuwa
Bendis Hena Diwel watta
Medage Watta Riciwesam
Pawula Watta Madinige watta
Potumulla Deniya Meepawita Yaya risiwesam
Idikada Hena Riciwesam
Kaluwala Yaya Gemidiriya Office Meepawita Ransegoda
Talawita  watta Meepawita Yaya
Bangala Watta Deniya Potu Mulla
Mahahena Yaya Meepawita Yaya
Bangala watta Bangala watta
Aluth watta Bangala watta deniya
Bimbiri gaha Koratuwa W arimarga Ela
Ambagaha watta Horapawila Yaya
Indurudu watta
Apalagoda
Kudawatta deniya
Kuda watta
Atmaga Koratuwa
Rasinghe watta
Pelaketiya watta
Situ gedara
Kuttiyage watta
Elagawa watta
Telambu gaha watta
Egodahaweda Mendura
Delgahadeniya

<!-- page 13 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
879
 SCHEDULE 13
Name of the road : Witiyalagoda Mudunahena Kitul Ella Estate road
Point at which the road starts : Dolamagahena (Shop) Junction
Point at which the road ends : Mulatiyana and Aturaliya Pattu Boundary on the Makandura Talahagama road
Length of the road : 1607.6m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Beragama- South.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Dolamaga Hena Urugamuwa Hena
Urugamuwa Hena Puwakwatta Hena
Puwakwatta Hena Urugamuwa Hena
Atambagaha Yaya Atambagaha Yaya
Muduna Hena Minuwanwila Hena
Akkara dahaya Hena Atambagaha Yaya
Dolamaga Hena Muduna Hena
Pengiri Hena Muduna hena/Dolamaga Hena
Helpathdeniya Hena Kitulella watta
Kitulallawatta
 SCHEDULE 14
Name of the road : Temple road via Kopiwatta
Point at which the road starts : At 21st mile post on the Mulatiyana Mawarala road
Point at which the road ends : At Tannahena on the road from 21st mile post Mulatiyana to Neralampitiya
Length of the road : 473m.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Mulatiyana.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mekiliyagahawatta Mekiliyagahawatta
Kopiwatta Geeganagawatta
Gegawa Land/Lee madu tenna Mekiliyagahawatta
Omare Kumbura Kopiwatta
Tennahena Nr ankoratuwa
Koratuwa
Aluthwatta
Ellagavagedara
Dolekatudeniya
SCHEDULE 15
Name of the road : Road from Madama langa to Yahalawila
Point at which the road starts : At Madama Langa on the Talahagama Akuressa road
Point at which the road ends : Land belonging to Mr. A. William, Mulanawatta
Length of the road : 121.5m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mulanawatta Mulanawatta

<!-- page 14 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
880
SCHEDULE 16
Name of the road : Yovun Gammana Road from Bosevana Junction on the Makandura Mulana Road
Point at which the road starts : Bosewana Junction
Point at which the road ends : At Wellappili land on the Youvn Gammana Road
Length of the road : 595.2m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Paragahaliyadda Kumburu yaya Paragahaliyadda Kumburu yaya
Kuttigahena Bodu gedara watta
Kuttigahena
SCHEDULE 17
Name of the road : Road from Hairan Culvet, Mulana
Point at which the road starts : At Hairan Culvet
Point at which the road ends : At the land belonging to Mr. Siril Susantha of Mulanawatte
Length of the road : 332.5m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mulanawatta Mulanawatta
Land belonging to Mr. W. N. Samantha Arachchigedara Idama
Land belonging to Mr. Pemasiri Land belonging to Mr. Raja Pratapasinghe
Land belonging to Mr. Lalith
Land belonging to Mr. Susantha
SCHEDULE 18
Name of the road : Road from concreet workshop on the Makandura Mulana Road to the land belonging
to Mr. M. H. A. Jayantha
Point at which the road starts : M. S. K. Concreet workshop
Point at which the road ends : Land belonging to M. H. A. Jayantha of Mulanawatta
Length of the road : 181.4m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mulanawatta Mulanawatta
Ratupaskanda
Mulanawatta
SCHEDULE 19
Name of the road : Road from Bosevana Junction to the land belonging to Mr. M. H. A. Jayantha
Point at which the road starts : Bosevana Junction
Point at which the road ends : Land belonging to Mr. M. H. A. Jayantha
Length of the road : 435m.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West.

<!-- page 15 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
881
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mulanawatta Deniyawatta
Deniyawatta
Land belonging to Mr. Hinni Appuhamy
SCHEDULE 20
Name of the road : Dolamaga Hena Road
Point at which the road starts : At Pangirikotuwa watta on the road from Witiyalagoda to Kitulella
Point at which the road ends : At Dolamaga hena on the Mudunahena Kitulella Road
Length of the road : 501.9m.
Width of the road : 30ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Beragama South
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Pengirikoratuwahena Aluthgeihena
Aluthgeihena M uttetukandahena
Muttetukanda Galatumbahena
Galatumbahena Mahagedarahena
Dolamaga hena Dolamagahena
Pengirihena
SCHEDULE 21
Name of the road : Kempitawala Road
Point at which the road starts : At Soldara Kada Junction on the Kudapana Pitabeddara Road
Point at which the road ends : At Dummalegava hena on the road from Sandagala Junction to Pallawakanda of
Sarananda Mawatha
Length of the road : 1,167.4m.
Width of the road : 30ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Gombaddala South
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Gombaddalawatta Gombaddala watta
Kempitiwala Land Dekandahena
Arambawatta hena
Kempitiwala
SCHEDULE 22
Name of the road : Sri Sarananda Mawatha
Point at which the road starts : At Kandawala Junction on the Kudapana Pitabeddara Road
Point at which the road ends : Up to Nayagala Road
Length of the road : 1,727.4m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Gombaddala Junction
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the rights side of the road :
Diwel Kumbura Kandawagedara
Ihalawatta Arambawatta
Palleha watta Ihalawatta
Bogahadeniya Pitawatta
Pitawatta Lintota deniya
Hompalahena Hompala Kumbura
Land of Samarasinghe Stores Ho mpala wila

<!-- page 16 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
882
Doladegoda hena Uduwatura
Atawatta Uduwatura Kumbura
Turaheti Mulla Kumbura Uduwatura
Uduwatura Halgahapola hena
Ihala Kapahenduma Iriyagasmulla
Iriyagasmulla Keelladeniya
Halgahapolahena Iriyagsmulla
Iriyagasmulla Keelladeniya Kumbura
Keella deniya
Keelladeniya Kumbura
SCHEDULE 23
Name of the road : Upa Nanda Wijethunga Mawatha, Makandrua West
Point at which the road starts : Mulana Road
Point at which the road ends : At Chakkaravadiya
Length of the road : 1,728.9m.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mulana Mulanawatta
Susana Hena Kanda Idama
Kitulahena Mulana watta
Jambugasdeniya Gahalakola deniya
Mulanawatta Land belonging to Mr. Raja Pratapasinghe
Land belonging to Mr. W. G . Ariyasena
Puwakmandiya
Mulanawatta
SCHEDULE 24
Name of the road : Kitulhen deniya Road
Point at which the road starts : At the boutique belonging to Mr. Sarath on the Makandura Mulana Road
Point at which the road ends : At Puwakhena
Length of the road : 520m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Ransegoda North
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Godagamahena Higgahadeniya reservation
Ahangamagehena Higgahadeniya paddy
Puwakhena Gonnagedarahena
Kandegedarahena Kitulahena
Gangwalahena
Ranchagodahena
Gonnagedarahena
Puwakhena
Arambagodahena
Alapoluwagodahena
Diwelwatta Land
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :

<!-- page 17 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
883
SCHEDULE 25
Name of the road : Jana Udana Village Road
Point at which the road starts : At the boutique belonging to Mr. Sarath on the Makandura Mulana Road
Point at which the road ends : Ayurvedic Medical Center on the Mulana Road
Length of the road : 383.3m.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Gonnagedarahena Kohombagahahena
Land belonging to Mr. W. G . Dhanapala Hikgahalanga
Land belonging to Mr. Hichchipala Kohombagahahena
Deniyagedara Jana Udanaya Village
Land belonging to Mrs. H. A. Latha
Berali Atura
Kohombagahahena
Land belonging to Mr. H. A. Ananda
Godagamahena
Mulanawatta
SCHEDULE 26
Name of the road : Madama Road from Mulana watta Junction via Chakkaravadiya
Point at which the road starts : Mulana watta Junction
Point at which the road ends : Madama Junction on the Talahagama Makandura Road
Length of the road : 2,083m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura West
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mulanawatta Mulanawatta
Uturu Mulana Kumbura
Mulanawatta Siyambala Koratuwa
Uturu Mulana
Kumbura
Mulanawatta
SCHEDULE 27
Name of the road : Witiyalagoda Batawala Hena Road
Point at which the road starts : At Urugamuwahena
Point at which the road ends : At Batawalahena
Length of the road : 91.2m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Baragama - South
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Diddenipotahena Orukanda Eddadeniya Kumbura
Batawalahena
SCHEDULE 28
Name of the road : Wevelketideniya Paluwatta Road
Point at which the road starts : Wevelketideniya Junction
Point at which the road ends : At Paluwattahena
Length of the road : 209.2m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Beragama - South

<!-- page 18 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
884
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Vewelketiyadeniya Vewelketiyadeniya Kumbura
Vewalketiyadeniya
Paluwattahena
SCHEDULE 29
Name of the road : Yovun Gammana Road
Point at which the road starts : At Kitul ella Rubber Estate on the Makandura Akuressa Road
Point at which the road ends : At Kuttigaha hena block number one
Length of the road : 947.6m.
Width of the road : 24ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura - West
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Kitulella watta Kitulellawatta
Yovun Gammana Praja Shalawa Kuttigahena
Kuttigahena
SCHEDULE 30
Name of the road : Witiyalagoda Minuwanwila Road
Point at which the road starts : Urugamuwahena Kade Junction
Point at which the road ends : At Ilukhena
Length of the road : 260m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Beragama - South
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Diddenipota Hena Urugamuwa Hena
Orukanda Addadeniya Kumburu Yaya Kanugodella Hena
Ikukhena
SCHEDULE 31
Name of the road : Elhen Deniya Road
Point at which the road starts : At Ambagahawela paddy field on the Urumutta Akuressa Road
Point at which the road ends : Wewelketideniya Junction
Length of the road : 1,206.9m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Beragama - South
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Ambagahawela Kumbura Ambagahawela
Egodahage watta Ambagahawela Kumbura
Galwala Kuttiya Egodahagewatta
Elhendeniya Galwala Kuttiya
Pelapol Mandiya Elhenadeniya
Wedagawattahena Amuna Ihala Kumbura
Ratapuhul Hena Palapol Mandiya
Palawetta Hena Palapol Mandiya Kumbura
Wewelketiya Deniya Wedagawatta Hena
Wewelketiya Deniya Kumbura Amuna Ihala
Wewelketideniya Pelawatta Hena
Horedola
Horedola Bakery

<!-- page 19 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
885
SCHEDULE 32
Name of the road : Kanatta Kitul Ella watta Road
Point at which the road starts : At Halpathdeniya on the Urumutta Makandura Road
Point at which the road ends : At Ihaladeniya Hena on the Kitul Ella Watta Witiyala Road
Length of the road : 809m.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Beragama - South
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Keranketiya Kumbura Halpath Deniya
Land of Kottawatta Land of Wela Addara
Land of Muttettukanda Koratuwatta
Land of Koratuwatta Bajjama Gedara Hena
Land belonging to Mr. Apage Loku Kanattawatta
Land belonging to Mr. Lesly Porooppa Watta
Elpath Deniya Gorokgahawatta
Kitul Ella Watta Galwala Kuttiya Kumbura
Galwala Kuttiya Kumbura Elhen Deniya
Ihaladeniya
Ihaladeniya Hena
SCHEDULE 33
Name of the road : Pattramulla Road
Point at which the road starts : Pattramulla Junction
Point at which the road ends : Kamburupitiya Pradeshiya Sabha boundary
Length of the road : 1,330m.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Horapawita - South
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Deyyandara Gedara Land belonging to Mr. E. K. Dayananda
Meepawita Gedara Pattramulla
Aluth Kade Pera Watta
Aluth Watta Aluth Watta Kumbura
Meepawita Gedara Meepawita Gedara
Tanne Gedara Godawa Hena
Dole Gedara Andapana Kele
Sapugaha Hena Nagoda Watta
Godagama Hena Andapana Watta
Land belonging to Mrs. P . G . Nandawathie Lena Batuwa Hena
Land belonging to Mr. H. K. Thilakasiri
Lenabatuwa Hena
Pattramulla
Kamburupitiya Pradeshiya Sabha seema
SCHEDULE 34
Name of the road : Amuhengoda Road
Point at which the road starts : Godaga watta Junction on the Mulana Road
Point at which the road ends : At Lindagava Kade
Length of the road : 1,629.9m.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Ransegoda North/Makandura-West

<!-- page 20 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
886
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Dantala Goda Land belonging to Mr. Nihal Anura
Umunhenagoda Land belonging to Mrs. Sudharma Senevirathne
Atambagaha Kanatta Land belonging to Mr. H. H. Kodithuwakku
Land belonging to Mr. S. Dharmadasa Land belonging to Mr. Prasad Hittatiyage
Land belonging to Mr. Somawansha Subasinghe Land belonging to Mr. M. M. Sirisena
Udahawatta Gindara Bokka paddy field
Polwattage Watta Deniyagoda
Kajjugahadeniya Kajjugahadeniya
Ihala Koratuwa Peendeniya
Ihalagoda Ihalagoda
Nanuwala Deniya Koratuwa Watta
Gegave Kade
Lokuralage Watta
Nanuwala Deniya
SCHEDULE 35
Name of the road : Meepawita Benthishena road
Point at which the road starts : At Heendeniya Mola on the Danwatta Meepawita road
Point at which the road ends : Residence of Mr. M. K. Avira, Mahawatta
Length of the road : 2024M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Meepawita.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Bensthishena Heendeniya
Nigatennagewatta Benthishena
Ratapera Mandiya Benthishena Watta
Benthishena Benthishena Kumbura
Aluthgewatta Benthishena
Benthishena Sapugahawatta
Wedigawatta Benthishena
Kitalagama Gedara Uduthiriya Hena
Nuwarahena Komatugoda
Benthishena Kirama Ara
Heendeniya Walavva Pettare Yaya
Uhangodahena Mahawatta
Benthihena
Land belonging to Mr. Piyasena
Kotugoda Deniya
Okanda Cemetry
Pettare Paddy field
Mahawatta Idama
SCHEDULE 36
Name of the road : Raja Uyana Oil mills road
Point at which the road starts : Raja Uyana Junction on the Deiyyandara, Matara main road
Point at which the road ends : At the residense of Mr. Herath
Length of the road : 502.9M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Ransegoda - North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Land located on the right side of the road :
Land belonging to Mr. Buddhika Land of Raja Uyana
Land of Raja Uyana
Land of tea

<!-- page 21 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
887
SCHEDULE 37
Name of the road : Road from Raja Uyana Junction to Annasihendeniya paddy field
Point at which the road starts : Raja Uyana Junction
Point at which the road ends : Annasihendeniya paddy - field
Length of the road : 658M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Ransegoda - North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Delgahahena L and belonging to Mr. W. D. Gamini Arachchigedara
Land belonging to Mr. Siril Siriwardhana Land belonging to Mrs. Ashoka Malkanthi
Land belonging to Mr. Saman Priyantha Land belonging to Mr. J. D. Nihal
Land belonging to Mr. L. K. Chaminda Land belonging to Mr. Piyasena
Land belonging to Mr. W. P. Gamini Land belonging to Mrs. Nandani
Land belonging to Mr. K. Kodithuwakku Land belonging to Mr. R. W. G . Newil Janaka
Land belonging to Mr. Susantha Land belonging to Mr. E. G. Sumith Krishantha
Land of Raja Uyana Land belonging to Mr. D. Wellappili
Land belonging to Mrs. Deepika Damayanthi
Land of Raja Uyana
SCHEDULE 38
Name of the road : Siri Guna Lankara Nahimi Mawatha
Point at which the road starts : Horapawita Andapana Junction
Point at which the road ends : Andapana Gate
Length of the road : 3650M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Horapawita South/Koraburuvana
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Bangalawatta Land of Kuttiya Kade
Andapana Watta Land of Udupehiliya
Andapana Forest Andapana Watta
Andapana Watta Andapana Forest
Pattaramulla Andapana Watta
Andapana Forest Andapana Forest
Pattramulla Land belonging to Mr. Ranaweera
Andapana Watta Andapanawatta
Kaluwatta Lindagahawa Deniya
Daduakula Watta Andapana Watta
Mugunamal Kanatta
SCHEDULE 39
Name of the road : Road from Arabagoda to Pamanwella Junction
Point at which the road starts : Arambagoda Junction
Point at which the road ends : Pamanwella Junction
Length of the road : 1500M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Makandura East/Ransegoda North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Arambagoda Watta Arambagoda Watta
Bata Atawala Watta Reservation
Arambagoda Watta Nanuwala Deniya

<!-- page 22 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
888
Nanuwala deniya Bata atawala
Land of Lokuralagewatta Atambagaha kanatta
Bata atawala watta Annasihendeniya
Reservation Unnasihendeniya Kumbura
Annasihendeniya yaya Delgodawatta
Disagawila yaya Annasihendeniya
Annasihendeniya Kirama hen kade
Kirama hen kade Annasihendeniya
Annasihendeniya Disagawila watta
Disagawila watta
Midulagaha deniya
Disagawila watta
SCHEDULE 40
Name of the road : Danwatta Panichchiyawatta road
Point at which the road starts : At Danwatta Kade on the Makandura Kamburupitiya road
Point at which the road ends : At Carpenter shop on the Makandura Kamburupitiya road
Length of the road : 1006M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Mudali gedara.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Mudaligewatta Mudali gedara
Talagassa kumbura Mole gedara
Godawatta kumbura Danwatta
Land belonging to Mr. K. P. Siripala Godawatta
Mahawatta Godawatta kade
Walokanda Goda watta
Meepawita watta Maha watta
Deyyandara hena W alo kanda
Nabarahelawatta Meepawita watta
Udagedara Mahahena
Panichchiya watta Udagedara
Panichchiya watta
Wadu winkale
SCHEDULE 41
Name of the road : Muttettugoda road
Point at which the road starts : Land belonging to Dhanapala Abeywickrama of Ambagahakanda
Point at which the road ends : Paddy-field belonging to Mrs. Malanie Ranathunga
Length of the road : 1620M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Seenipella East.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the rights side of the road :
Tekkawatta Ambagaha kanda
Ganwatta Pelawatta
Pelawatta Ganwatta
Ganwatta Alunetdeniya
Pelawatta Gangwatta Kumbura
Danwatta Gangwatta
Akkara asoova Muttettugoda
Uvanagedara hena Pelawatta
Welihena Akkara asoova
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :

<!-- page 23 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
889
Muruthaketiyahena Uvanagedara hena
Welihena Akkara asoova
Land belonging to Mr. W. D. Nimal Kirihena
Land belonging to Mr. L. G . Dondiyes Muruthaketiya hena
Land belonging to Mr. M. M. Heenappu Galwala kanatta
Land belonging to Mr. M. M. Pintheriyes Muruthaketiya hena
Land belonging to Mrs. R. Malanie Arambahena
Land belonging to Mr. A. D. Nihal Land belonging to Mr. M. M. Siripala
Paddy field belonging to Mrs. R. Malanie
SCHEDULE 42
Name of the road : Kiriwela Magadeniya road
Point at which the road starts : Land belonging to Mr. P. Piyasena of Heenmandiyahena
Point at which the road ends : Land belonging to Mr. A. Piyadasa of Kirewela
Length of the road : 1,232M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Bamunugama East.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Heenmandiya hena Heenmandiya hena
Kiriwela
Keselgas watta
Udayawala hena
Heenimandiya hena
Kiriwela
Welithuduwa Kiriwela
Kiriwela
Reservation for Dola
Kiriwela
SCHEDULE 43
Name of the road : Magadeniya Tekkawatta road
Point at which the road starts : Okanda watta hena
Point at which the road ends : Godellawatta
Length of the road : 1,055M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Seenipella East/Maduwala
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Magadeniya Okanda watta hena
Medakuttiya hena Magadeniya
Arambawatta Paddy field belonging to Mr. Abeygunawardhana
Baduwatta Ruppa gedara
Kadawal Liyadda Paddy field belonging to Mr. Wimalasena
Land belonging to Mr. Siripala Samarawickrama
Gamagewatta
Mramagaha kella
Land belonging to Mr. Jinadasa Dahanayaka
Aramba wattahena
Badu watta
Ambagaha Okanda
Godella watta
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :

<!-- page 24 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
890
SCHEDULE 44
Name of the road : Raja Mawatha road
Point at which the road starts : Magadeniya Tekkawatta road
Point at which the road ends : Hittatiyage Mawatha
Length of the road : 985M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Maduwala.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Medakuttiyahena Medakuttiya hena
Kohila Paddy
Medakuttiya hena
SCHEDULE 45
Name of the road : Mavarala road via Akkara panaha
Point at which the road starts : Maturata rubber estate
Point at which the road ends : Land belonging to Mr. Upali
Length of the road : 3,035M.
Width of the road : 22ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Ketapala Kanda.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Maturata Wewili company Maturata wewili company
Medellagaha deniya Reservation
Kanattawatta hena Bogaha kanatta
Midellagaha dola Den iya Kumbura
Koratuwa Land belonging to Mrs. Sandhya Wasanthie
Walahena Land belonging to Mr. Ranasinghe
Tengawatta Land belonging to Mr. Ranaweera
Kanattawatta hena Tenga watta
Guruhena Guruhena
land belonging to Mr. Saharasinghage Saradiyes Mee Abeygedarahena
Thubehena Ganewatta hena
Kanattawatta Bogahakoratuwa hena
Kanattawatta ge gava Tumbehena
Palehena Rakwana hena
Rakwanahena Batadele hena
Palehena Udaha hena
Gururhena Guruhena
Koratuwa watta hena Puhugaha koratuwa hena
Puwakdola Elgirihena
Akkara panaha Kanatta wattahena
Kanda hena Tumbehena
Akkara panaha Batadale hena
Kande koratuwa
Udhaha hena
Guruhena
Koratuwa watta hena
Wemmalgedara hena
Akkara panaha
Arambagedara hena
Akkara panaha
Arambagedara hena
Kande hena
Akkara panaha
Pitamal kanada
Allapuhena

<!-- page 25 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
891
SCHEDULE 46
Name of the road : Kammutuwala road via Talakanatta
Point at which the road starts : Widanagama watta
Point at which the road ends : Tama ngoda hena
Length of the road : 1,255M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Bamunugama East.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Medapita Kumbura Widanagama watta
Tala kanatta Prartana Kanatta
Kajjugewatta W ewala Kumburu yaya
Uswatta Pelawatta Kumbura
Ihala Koratuwa Epita watta
Epitawatta T attumaru Kumbura
land belonging to Mr. J. L. A. Jayasinghe Horakandeniya
Pelawatta Kadegedara watta
Mahalpage Idama Kodi watta
Pawula Koratuwa T amangoda hena
Bogahawatta Tamangoda hena Kumbura
Kodiwatta kella Bamunugama Pasal watta
Tamangoda hena
Bamunugama Pasal watta
SCHEDULE 47
Name of the road : Nugahena Peellawatta road
Point at which the road starts : At Galpottahena
Point at which the road ends : At Telambugaha Koratuwa
Length of the road : 1,447M.
Width of the road : 12ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Bamunugama East.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Galpottahena Galpottahena
Nugahena Nugahena
Mahahena Eeriyagahamaditta
Epalagoda Godella Idama
Godella Maragaha watta
Pol koratuwa Ihala gedara
Maragahawatta Gallella watta
Ihalagedara Paregedara watta
Gallella atta Land belonging to Mr. Kularathna
Paregedara watta Bandattara gedara
Bandattara gedara Denagama gedara
Denagama gedara Arambagava Idama
Peella watta Julgaha koratuwa
Arambagawa Piatakoratuwa Paddy field belonging Sri Wijayaramaya
Galagawatta Telambugaha koratuwa
Ihalawatta
Galagawatta Te kella
Palle Okgala Kumbura
Paddy field belonging to Mr. Hadiris
Bowitimulla kumbura
Telabugaha koratuwa

<!-- page 26 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
892
SCHEDULE 48
Name of the road : Krushi Mawatha
Point at which the road starts : Bamunugama main road
Point at which the road ends : Andapana Rubber Estate
Length of the road : 937M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Horapawita North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Madampe Kumbura Paddy field belonging to Mr. Ajith Wimalarathna
Kodippiligewatta Kodippiligewatta
Talgoda Watta Kodippilideniya Kumbura
Deniya Gedara Indurugoda Kumbura
Lellawala Kumbura Udatalgoda Kumbura
Lalugaha Depaala Palletalgoda Kumbura
Ambagahawatta Puwakgahapiyadda Kumbura
Wijethunga Kumbura
Batadombagahadeniya Kumbura
Pinkella Kumbura
Ambagahawatta
Andapana Rubber Watta
SCHEDULE 49
Name of the road : Karavvala road via Horapavita
Point at which the road starts : Lewpathdeniya
Point at which the road ends : At Viharakele (reservation)
Length of the road : 2543M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Horapavita - South.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Komburudeniya Lewpathdeniya
Tippalakoratuwa W endesi kella
Medagodahena Paddy field belonging to Mr. P . Peter
Potuwilahena Cut-off paddy field
Pinnakola Pelessa Paddy field belonging to Mr. Jinadasa Jayalath
Mahagalagawa Ketakella Kumbura
Pansal watta Malapalawa paddy field
Playground Paddy field belonging to Mrs. E. P. Kusumawathie
Mahagalagawa Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. S. Wimalathissa
Galgodella Paddy field belonging to Mr. D. H. Mathupala
Karawwala Wadugaha Koratuwa
Paddy field belonging to Mr. I. Martin
Paddy field belonging to Mrs. G . Kamalawathie
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. K. Jayawardhana
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. K. D. Gunawardhana
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. D. K. Sirisena
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. D. K. Ananda
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. D. K. Hramanis
Paddy field belonging to Mrs. H. W. Yasawathie
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. S. Suranga Kularathna
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. A. Ranaweera
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. S. Sepalis
Paddy field belonging to Mr. J. Dharmasena
Paddy field belonging to Mr. H. D. K. Hemapala

<!-- page 27 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
893
Paddy field belonging to Mr. A. P . Wijesiri
Paddy field belonging to Mr. A. P. Nikalas
Paddy field belonging to Mr. E. P. Ariyarathna
Beligahakoratuwa
Land belonging to Mr. S. P. K. Ananda
Beligahakoratuwa
Land belonging to Mr. H. S. Tarindu
Land belonging to Mr. H. S. Jayasena
Land belonging to Mr. H. S. Sanath Taraka
Land belonging to Mr. H. A. Pantis
Land belonging to Mr. H. D. K. Sirisena
Land belonging to Mr. D. H. Karunawathie
Land belonging to Mr. G . S. Jayasena
Land belonging to Mr. W. M. Raja
Land belonging to Mr. D. H. Priyarathna
Land belonging to Mr. W. M. Raja
Land belonging to Mr. D. H. Piyasena
Land belonging to Mr. D. H. Sunil
Land belonging to Mr. D. H. Thissa
Vihara Kele
SCHEDULE 50
Name of the road : Ransiri Mawatha from Rakshanagama via Pinnakolapelessa, Horapawita
Point at which the road starts : Land belonging Mr. H. D. Menimel
Point at which the road ends : Horapawita Rural Bank
Length of the road : 1,102M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Horapawita North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Land of Pinnakolapelessa Land of Pinnakolapelessa
Medagodahena Rakshanagama
Rakshanagama Ransirigama
Horapawita Bank
SCHEDULE 51
Name of the road : Horapawita Malwella road
Point at which the road starts : Medagodawatta
Point at which the road ends : Nugadanda Land
Length of the road : 320M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Horapawita North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Wadugaha Koratuwa Medagodawatta
Pohongoda Watta Pohongoda Watta
Epalagoda Bogahaheba Kumbura
Nugadanda Epalagoda Kumbura
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :

<!-- page 28 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
894
SCHEDULE 52
Name of the road : Ketapala Kanda main road
Point at which the road starts : Neralampitiya Junction
Point at which the road ends : Paranagedarahena Land
Length of the road : 6,885M.
Width of the road : 24ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Neralampitiya/Gal Atumba/Ketapalakanda
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Land belonging to Mr. J. A. Siripala Dangalagewatta
Koratuwa Randenigewatta
Randenigewatta Totawala
Land belonging to Mr. Maithree Ranasinghe Parana Watta
Randenige diwel Watta Ranasinghe Watta
Ranasinghe Watta Ihala Watta
Ihalawatta Konaga Watta
Konaga Watta Pahala Konaga Watta
Pahala Konaga Watta Dolage Watta
Dolage Watta Kandage Watta
Kiralagaha Mandiya Dolage Watta
Land belonging to Mr. G . G . Dayananda Kiralagaha Maditta
Pussahena Watta Maramandiya
Koongaha Hena Maramandiya school ground
Koongaha Hena Yaya Kiralagaha Maditta
Galetumba Hena Maturata Wewili company
Koongaha Gena Yaya Koongaha Hena Yaya
Neralanpitiya Mukalana Palehena
Koongaha Hena Yaya Galetumba Hena
Maturata Wewili company Koongaha Hena Taya
Paraketiya Hena Palleha Hena
Reseravation Mukalana
Pussahena Maturata Wewili company
Maturata Wewili company Paraketiya Hena
Land belonging to Mr. H. A. Lalith Priyantha Pussahena
Land belonging to Mr. W. Amarasena Maturata Wewili company
Welehena Pussahena
Roduhena Land belonging to Medical Institute
Dola Ihala W elehena
Koskade Hena Roduhena
Kirimatiwala Hena Kirimatiwala Hena
Land belonging to Mrs. G. R. Karunawathie Rakwanahena
Hikgodahena Hikgodahena
Reservation Hatigalahena
Pawarehena W elehena
Land belonging to Mr. Sanjeewa Mutu Kumara Poddalahena
Makiliyagaha house Mahagalahena
Pahalawattahena W emmalegaha Gedara Hena
Mahagalahena Meda Koratuwa Hena
Meda Koratuwahena W elekade Hena
Wemmalegaha gedara Hena Gombaddala Hena
Weralugaha Gava Gedara Dampahala Hena
Kandehena Kirihena
Dampahala hena Ranhena
Kirihena Delkanda Hena
Ranhena W ewekanatta Hena
Government Land Beragamagehena
Beragama hena Gepala Niavasa
Akkara panaha Paranagedara Hena
Land belonging to Mr. G . Siripala

<!-- page 29 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
895
SCHEDULE  53
Name of the road : Koskanuwila road
Point at which the road starts : Bata Atawala Estate
Point at which the road ends : Bata Atawala rubber estate on the Mulana road
Length of the road : 1,176.3M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Ransegoda North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Bata Atawala watta Bata Atawala watta
Koskanuwila Kumburu yaya Koskanuwila
Land belonging to Mr. Prasad Priyadarshana Koratuwa watta
Koskanuwil Koskanuwila
Land belonging to Mr. W. A. K. Pradeep Darshana Koratuwa watta
Land belonging to Mr. W. V . Gayantha Kumara Koskanuwila
Land belonging to Mr. W. V . Samantha Reservation
Land belonging to Mrs. E. D. Lalitha Paragahaliyadda
Koskanuwila Kumburu yaya Bata Alawala watta
Land belonging to Mr. Siril Wickramasinghe
Land belonging to Mr. W. G . Indrasena
Bata Atawala watta
SCHEDULE  54
Name of the road : Atambagaha watta road
Point at which the road starts : Andagala hena
Point at which the road ends : Sooriyagaha deniya
Length of the road : 1378M.
Width of the road : 16ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Pitawalgamuwa.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the rights side of the road :
Andagalahena Andagalahena
Matihakka Kumbura Pitawalgamuwa school
Atambagahawatta Kirimati hakka
Kumburawattage watta depala Kirimati hakka Kumbura
Wattage watta depala Horagahadeniya Kumbura
Paddyfield of temple Koongahadeniya
Maha Kumbura Koongaha Kumbura
Galmadiga watta Land belonging to Mr. M. Ariyarathna
Sooriyagaha deniya Land belonging to Mr. P. K. K. Thilakarathna
Atambagahawatta
Land belonging to Mr. Haramanis
Land belonging to Mrs. Karunawathie
Land belonging to Mr. Kumarasinghe
Babundeniya Kumbura
Land belonging to Mr. H. A. Kumarasinghe
Land belonging to Mr. H. A. Sumathipala
Land belonging to Mr. H. A. Priyarathna
Land belonging to Mr. G . Gunasena
Medakuttiya Idama
Kopiwatta
Land belonging to Mr. S. B. Rasika
Kumudusara Bandara
Land belonging to Mr. A. W. Rathnayaka
Mahakumbura

<!-- page 30 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
896
SCHEDULE  55
Name of the road : Matihakka road
Point at which the road starts : At Bokotuwa
Point at which the road ends : Welipota
Length of the road : 1,347.1M.
Width of the road : 22ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Pitawalgamuwa 279/A
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the rights side of the road :
Pelawatta Ilukhena
Paddy field belonging to Mr. M. D. Chandralal Paddy field belonging to Mr. M. D. Chandralal
Abeywardhana Abeywardhana
Matihakkahena Matihakkahena
Dola Reservation Matihakkahena
Puwakgahahena Puwakgahahena
SCHEDULE 56
Name of the road : Delgoda Welipota road
Point at which the road starts : Land belonging to Mr. Mahinda Wijesinghe
Point at which the road ends : Land belonging to Mr. K. A. Rajarathna
Length of the road : 705.4M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Pitawalgamuwa.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the rights side of the road :
Welipota Land belonging to Mr. Mahinda Wijesinghe
Puwakgahahena Land belonging to Mr. N. A. Ajith Pushpakumara
Dolegoda Medakuttiyahena
Land belonging to Mr. N. A. Ariyasena
Land belonging to Mr. M. D. Jayawardhana
Land belonging to Mr. Rajarathna
SCHEDULE 57
Name of the road : Bata Atawala Mulana road
Point at which the road starts : Dekanda Muduna
Point at which the road ends : Mtuhara Pre school - Bata Atawala
Length of the road : 1,682.7 M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Ransegoda North.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the rights side of the road :
Bata Atawala watta Bata atawala watta
Land belonging to Mr. Sarath Rajapaksha Bata atawala
Bata atawala watta Mutuhara pre-school - Bata atawala

<!-- page 31 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
897
SCHEDULE 58
Name of the road : Meepawita road
Point at which the road starts : Land belonging to Mr. W. T. Somathilaka
Point at which the road ends : Land belonging to Mrs. W. T. Manoja
Length of the road : 1,912M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Mudali gedara/Makandura East/Meepawita.
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Land of Delgahakade Land belonging to Mr. W. T. Somapala
Paddy field belonging to Mr. Rathnayaka Paddy field belonging to Mr. Wimalagunarathne
Kapruka Puravara Nanatige liyadda paddy
Land belonging to Mr. Masakorala Mahawalawwa land
Paddy field belonging to Mr. Chandima Pattunge Okanda
Mudali gedara Okanda
Angaha Okanda Walawwatta
Pattungage Okanda Land belonging to Mr. Dhammika
Arambe Kade Land belonging to Mr. K. P. Chandrapala
Kiramba watta Benthishena
Sohon bima Tune kella
Kirambahena Hate kella
Land belonging to Mr. K. P. Wasantha Kanatte gedara
Land belonging to Ms. Misinona Wanigasooriya Paddy field belonging to Mr. Bala
Land belonging to Mr. Chandradasa Wijeweera Udathiriya
Land belonging to Mrs. N. S. Jayanthi Benthishena
Udathiriya Ratapera Mandiya
Benthishena Kutu mulla
Kaluwara wala Aasla
Ratapera Mandiya
SCHEDULE 59
Name of the road : Suhada Mawatha
Point at which the road starts : Nakuttiya land belonging to Mr. L. G . Wimalasiri
Point at which the road ends : Tekkawatta Bamunugama road
Length of the road : 3,809M.
Width of the road : 20ft.
Grama Niladhari Divisions in which the road ends : Seenipella East
Lands located on the left side of the road : Lands located on the right side of the road :
Nakuttiya Medawewa
Udawewa Medawattahena
Medawattahena Public Playground
Public Playground Dolehena
Welihena gedara Diddenapotahena
Dolahena Kirambahena
Diddenapotahena Akkara dahaya
Kirambahena Dolehena
Dolehena Medakuttiyahena
Medakuttiyahena
Haldola reservation
Medakuttiyahena
08–884

<!-- page 32 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
898
BATTICALOA   MUNICIPAL   COUNCIL
Act, No.04 of 1975 for Naming of Streets and erection of Monuments and maintenance of them
THE names as per Column 2 of the following schedule to the streets described below are given according to the decisions arrived  at the
general meetings of the Batticaloa Municipal Council.
I declare that the following streets are given the new names as per Column 2 of the schedule below in terms of  provisions of
Chapter 252 of the Municipal Ordinance 71(1) and in terms of provisions of Act No.04 of 1975 for Naming of Streets, Erection of
Monuments and Maintenance of same.
K. S
IV ANATHAN,
Municipal Commissioner.
Office of the Municipal Council,
Batticaloa,
15th August, 2012.
1. Name of Local Authority : Batticaloa Municipal Council
2. District : Batticaloa
SCHEDULE 01
S
TREETS PROVIDED WITH NEW NAMES
No. Name of Street Place Originates No. of Place Right Left Length W idth Nature
resolution and terminates side side of of of street
date Assess- Assess- street street
ment ment (metres) (metres)
numbers numbers
1. Kannappar Kumarasamy New Kalmunai 15/ Lake shore 46 3 Tar,
Veethy, Kallady Road 29.09.2009 0 Gravel
2. Thiraimadu 1st Cross Murugan Kovil 9C Thiraimadu 111 109 56 Gravel
boundary road 31.08.2010 boundary road 7 4.4
3. Thiraimadu 2nd Cross Murugan Kovil 9C Thiraimadu 115 113 60 4.8
boundary road 31.08.2010 boundary road 2 Gravel
4. Thiraimadu 3rd Cross Murugan Kovil 9C Thiraimadu 119 117 41 Gravel
boundary road 31.08.2010 boundary road 4 5
5. Thiraimadu 4th Cross Murugan Kovil 9C Thiraimadu 127 123 44 Gravel
boundary road 31.08.2010 boundary road 4 5.6
6. Thiraimadu 5th Cross Murugan Kovil 9C Thiramadu 131 129 34 Gravel
boundary road 31.08.2010 boundary road 4 4.3
7. Thiraimadu 6th Cross Murugan Kovil 9C Thiraimadu 135 133 29 Gravel
boundary road 31.08.2010 boundary road 2 6
8. 1st Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 5th Cross 58 56 86 2.6 Gravel
veethy 19.04.2010 Kannakiamman
Veethy
9. 2nd Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 Poompuhar 60 62 13 3.6 Gravel
veethy 19.04.2010 veethy 2
10. 3rd Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 Poompuhar 66 64 17 2.5 Gravel
veethy 19.04.2010 veethy 8
11. 4th Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 Poompuhar 70 72 15 2.7 Gravel
veethy 19.04.2010 veethy 0

<!-- page 33 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRA TIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
899
12. 5th Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 Poompuhar 78 80B 12 3.2 Gravel
Veethy 19.04.2010 Veethy 5
13. 6th Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 5th cross Lions 99 94 16 3.3 Gravel
Veethy 19.04.2010 Club road 7
14. 7th Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 5th Cross Lions 98 96 15 2.7 Gravel
Veethy 19.04.2010 Club Road 5
15. 8th Cross Poompuhar Poompuhar 10 Lions Club Road 100 98 21 3 Gravel
Veethy 19.04.2010 4
16. Auwaiyar veethy, Kalladi, Old Kalmunai 15 Lake shore 24 4 Gravel
Uppodai Road 30.07.2010 0
17. Dr. S. Rajadurai Veethy Munai Street 15.09.2011 Kannakiamman 38 6 T arred
Kovil Road 5
18. Veerapathiran temple New Kalmunai 15.09.2011 School Road 480 482A 65 5 Gravel
Road, Manchanthoduvai Road 0
North
19. Barathy Lane, T echnical College 16D Rahuman Road 1 2 65 5 Concrete
Manchanthoduvai Road 15.08.2011 0 Gravel
20. Sayi Lane Kallady Old Kalmunai 12 Ends in house 10 6 90 3 Gravel
Road 14.12.2009
21. Valluwar Veethy Trinco Road 14 Ends in house 85 2.8 Gravel
23.06.2011
08-928/1
––––––––––––––––––––––––
BATTICALOA   MUNICIPAL   COUNCIL
Act, No.4 of 1975 for Naming of Streets and Erection of Monuments and Maintenance of them
THE names as per Column 2 of the following schedule to the Streets described below are given according to the decisions arrived  at the
general meetings of the Batticaloa Municipal Council.
I declare that the following streets are given the new names as per Column 2 of the schedule below in terms of  provisions of
Chapter 252 of the Municipal Ordinance 71(1) and in terms of provisions of Act, No.04 of 1975 for Naming of Streets, Erection o f
Monuments and Maintenance of same.
K. SIV ANA THAN,
Municipal Commissioner.
Office of the Municipal Council,
Batticaloa,
15th August, 2012.
1. Name of Local Authority : Batticaloa Municipal Council
2. District : Batticaloa
No. Name of Street Place Originates No. of Place Right Left Length W idth Nature
resolution and terminates side side of of of street
date Assess- Assess- street street
ment ment (metres) (metres)
numbers numbers

<!-- page 34 -->

 IV^wd& fldgi - YS% ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h - 2012'08'30
Part IV (B) – GAZETTE OF THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA – 30.08.2012
900
PRINTED  AT  THE  DEPARTMENT  OF  GOVERNMENT  PRINTING,  SRI  LANKA.
SCHEDULE 02
STREETS PROVIDED WITH NEW NAMES
No. New Name Old Name No. of G . S. Place Place Right Left Length W idth Nature
of Street of Street resolution Division starts ter minates side side of of of
and Date Name Assess- Assess- Street Street Street
and No. ment ment (metres) (metres)
Nos. Nos.
1. Cemetary Road, V idvan A. 08 168C New Mohideen 479 481 195 4.5 Concrete/
Navatkuda East Saravanamuthu 20.06.2008 Navatkuda Kalmunai Thaika Gravel
Road East Road Road
2. 1st Cross Barathy Road 12 168C Poonochchi- S ando 313 302 251 4 Concrete/
Poonochchimunai 26.11.2009 Navatkuda munai Sangarathas Gravel
North East Road Road
3. 2nd Cross, Ambal Road 12 168C Poonochchi- Mohideen 303 304 200 4 Gravel
Poonochchimunai 26.11.2009 Navatkuda munai Thaika
North East Road Road
4. 3rd Cross New Road 12 168C Poonochchi- Poonoch- 26/29 26/3 215 3.5 Gravel
Poonochchimunai 26.11.2009 Navatkuda munai chimunai
East Road
5. Road Close to T echnical 12 168C New Saratha 515 3 200 5 Gravel
Police Station College Road 26.11.2009 Navatkuda Kalmunai Road
East Road
6. 1st Cross of 2nd Kovint han  Road 12 168C Poonochchi- Poonoch- 26/19 335/1 215 3.5 Gravel
Cross 26.11.2009 Navatkuda munai chimunai
Poonochcimunai East No rth 2nd North 3rd
East Cross Cross
7. 2nd Cross of 2nd Elango Road 12 168C Poonochchi Poonoch- 333/15 333 215 3.5 Gravel
Cross 26.11.2009 Navatkuda munai North chimunai
Poonochcimunai East 2nd Cross North 4th
East Cross
8. 3rd Cross of 2nd Shakthy Road 12 168C Poonochchi Poonoch- 371 355 185 3 Gravel
Cross 26.11.2009 Navatkuda munai chimunai
Poonochcimunai East 2nd Cross Road
East
9. Shakthy V eethy Saratha 12 168C New Kalmu- Kalaimag- 350 3 Gravel
Cross Road V idyalaya Road 26.11.2009 Navatkuda nai Road al V eethy
Navatkudah East East
10. Old Post Office Thirumagal 13 171V New Kalmu- Old Kalmu- 2 5 520 3 T arred
Road V eethy 26.11.2009 Kalladi nai nai
Uppodai Road Road
11. East Road to Dr. Thambipillai 03 171V New Kalmu- Ends in 4 1 100 2.5 Sand
Murugappar Road 26.10.2010 Kalladi nai Road house
Veethy Uppodai
12. Mariamman Kovil Thiraimadu, 26 173E Maddikkali Murugan 1632 6.3 Gravel
Road Murugan Kovil 08.03.2010 Thiraimadu Kathirgamar Kovil
Road V eethy Road
13. Yard Road, Pulavarmani 15.09.2011 179 Bryan Drive Lake Road 280 4 T arred
Puliyanthivu Periyathambi Puliyanthivu 0 2
Pillai Veethy East
14. 10th Cross Balamauruga 13 173B Iruthaya- Play 75 6.1 Sand
Iruthayapuram Road 19.04.2010 Iruthaya- puram Ground
West puram East Central Road
08-928/2