

<!-- page 1 -->

1AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
w;s úfYI
wxl 2020$75 - 2017 uehs ui 26 jeks isl=rdod - 2017'05'26
No.2020/75 -  FRIDAY  MAY 26,  2017
EXTRAORDINARY
The Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
(Published by Authority)
PART  IV (A) — PROVINCIAL   COUNCILS
Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;%sl iudcjd§ ckrcfha .eiÜ m;%h
Provincial  Councils  Notifications
                  
       
              
               
            
        
                  
     
         
             
         
               
            
               
               
            
               
        
                 
        
              
               
            
         
                  
UVA   PROVINCE   PROVINCIAL   COUNCIL
REGULATIONS prepared by the Minister in charge of Sports and Youth Affairs, Tourism, Transport, Cultural Affairs and
Textile and Small Industries under the Section 38 of the Charter for Sports No. 07 of 2010 of Uva Province.
SALIY A SUMEDHA DE SILV A,
Minister in charge of Sports and Youth Affairs, Tourism,
Transport, Cultural Affairs and Textile and Small Industries,
Uva Province.
at Badulla,
22nd May, 2017.
Regulations
01) These regulations may be cited as “The Uva Provincial Sports Regulations” and they shall come into operation
from the date of notification published in the Gazette.
02) The decision given by the Minister in-charge of Sports, hereinafter referred to “the Minister” on any matter
related to Uva Provincial Sports Regulations, hereinafter referred to “regulations” shall be the final.
03) 1. According to Section 6(1) of the Charter for Sports No. 07 of 2010 of Uva Province, hereinafter referred
to “the Charter”, the Minister in-charge shall appoint two members from the Board for the posts of the
Secretary and Treasurer of the Board of Trustees for operating the fund account.
II. The Secretary to the Ministry in-charge shall appoint as suitables staff on the instructions of the Minister
for the proper maintenance of the tasks of the funds.
III. The Secretary to the Ministry in-charge shall have the power of ordering a suitable remuneration for that
staff from the fund on the insructions of the Minister.
04) The account of the fund shall be maintained in a reputed government bank determined by the Board of Trustee of
the fund as suitable.
This Gazette Extraordinary can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk
1A PG  3538  — 09  (05/2017)

<!-- page 2 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;d ka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
2A
05) Two signatures namely, one signature of the president and the other of the treasurer or the secretary of the Board
of Trustees shall be needed for all money transactions of the bank account of the fund.
06) i. Meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be conducted once a month. The Minister can call for special
meetings whenever necessary.
ii. The president shall chair all the meetings of the Board of Trustees. In a situation where the president is
absent for a meeting, the members in attendance once shall choose one among them to chair such meeting.
iii. In the event of any inconsistency in opinion among the members of the Board of Trustees, on any decision,
the decision of the majority shal always prevails.
iv. On account of any vacancy in the membership of the Board of Trustees, no action or activity of the Board
of Trustees shall be considered as non-elective.
v . There must be a quorum of three members for any meeting of the Board of Trustees.
07. Presiding the meetings of the Board of Trustees, presenting the proposals and documents received by the Board
and implementing the decisions taken by the Board shall be the function of the president.
08. Calling for routine and special meetings of the Board of Trustees, taking down the minutes of the meetings,
preparing annual administrative report, preparing the lists of names of the allowance receivers and the donors,
keeping and maintaining the books and documents used by the Board of Trustees and presenting the minutes of
the meetings shall be the functions of the secretary.
09. I. The treasurer shall maintain cash books relating to the fund account, ledger accounts, payment, documents,
annual accounts, revenue accounts, receipt books, wholesale books, assessment documents, cheque books,
and books and documents ordered by the Board of Trustees in accordance with the accepted standards.
There books and assets shall be kept in his safe custody.
II. At every Board of Trustee meeting, providing a statement on account status of the fund and a report explaining
the way of transaction implementation, adopted at the last meeting shall be the responsibility of the treasurer.
III. The treasurer shall receive the money, cheques and money orders coming into the fund account and issue
the receipts and bank them.
IV . The treasurer shal keep all the paying vouchers and relevant documents safely under his custody.
V . The treasurer shall prepare the final accounts in every year showing the income and expenditure of the fund
account in the form of a balance sheet indicating the assets and liabilities and shall present it to the Board
of Trustees before the end of 28th February of the following year.
10. The Board of the Trustees shall prepare the annual cost estimate of the services expected to be implemented
under the fund during the following year and obtain the approval of the Minister thereto, before of the begining of
the financial year.

<!-- page 3 -->

3AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
11. i. According to the Section 11(1) of the Charter, as a tribute to the honours received in respect of progress
made in sports.
a. For the players going to participate in provincial, national and international games
b. For the players participated at the above provincial, national and international games.
c. in a situation where a player is participating to a formal sports event.
When providing any aid on compassionate grounds under (a), (b), (c) above, if it is on poverty or disability,
feebleness, weakness the request must be made with the confirmation of the relevant Grama Niladhari of
the applicant's residing division ; counter signed by the Divisional Secretary.
ii. When providing incentive payments to the players residing in Uva province and showing talents in national
and international level sports tournaments, the request shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees by the
applicant under the Section 11(2) of the Charter.
iii. When providing any aid to the players residing in Uva province who participate in international level sports
tournaments held aboard, the request shall be submitted to the Board of Trustees by the applicant under
Section 11(3) of the Charter.
iv. To provide awards or appropriate allowances as a tribute and incentive payment to the sports officers,
coaches, judges and other persons in Uva province who render special service in the field of sports under
the Section 11(4) of the Charter, the applicants shall have to make their requests to the Board of Trustees.
v . When providing aids to the persons in the field of sport who participate in local and foreign sports trainings
and conference, the request must be submitted to the Board of Trustees by the applicants in terms of
Section 11(5) of the Charter.
vi. Payments of aids mentioned in the sub sections 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 of Section 11 of the Charter shall be done by
time to time according to the amount decided by the Minister in-charge.
vii. According to the Section 11(3) and Section 11(5) of the Charter any person who obtains any aid from the
account of the fund to travel abroad, the person shall have to enter into an agreement stated in Schedule I
before he leaves from Sri Lanka.
12. 1. Under Section 30 of the Charter, for registered of a sports society, an application must be submitted to the
Provincial Sports Director according to the format indicated in Schedule II will the recommendation of
the sports officer appointed to the relevant Divisional Secretary Division.
II
a) Four copies of the constitution of the sport society which was confirmed in the general meeting of
that sports society.
b) Four copies of the list of names of the members not less than twenty five, who had participated in the
general meeting with their names, addresses, identity card numbers and signatures
c) Four copies of the minutes of general meeting with the certification of the president and the secretary.
d) Four copies of the signature list of the appointed office bearers.
Shall have to be submitted along with the application forwarded under Section 1

<!-- page 4 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;d ka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
4A
III. The sports officer of the relevant Divisional Secretary Division shall participate in the first meeting of the
new sports society or in the election of office bearers meeting for extending the registration. An authorized
representative of the Provincial Sports Director must participate in a situation where the sports officer is
not participating in the meeting.
13. a. Registration of sports societies for senior citizens shall be done throughout the year and only after active
implementation of one year period, it is qualified for receiving aids, facilities or other grants unde the
Charter.
b. Reorganizing of a registered sports society shall be done from the 1st of October to 31st of December in
every year. For this following documents shall be submitted to the Provincial Sports Director by the sports
officer of the relevant Divisional Secretariat.
I. Four certified copies of the meeting for election of officer bearers conducted for the ensuing year
and the minutes of the general meeting.
II. Four copies of the audited final accounts report of the previous year
III. Four copies of the document consisting the names, addresses, identity card numbers of the elected
office bearers for the coming year.
IV . Four copies of the documents including the details of the members participated in sports events,
trainings, conferences of the said sports society
V . Four copies of the list of names of the members including names, addresses and national identity
card numbers.
14) Fees are charged as follows under the changes done by the Minister by time to time for new registration and
reorganization of a sports society and a receipt must be obtained after paying the fee to the Provincial Sports
Director.
a) Annual fee for new registration of a sports society is two hundred and fifty rupees (Rs. 250/-)
b) Annual fee for new registation of a sports club in ten thousand rupees (Rs. 10,000/-)
c) Annual fee reorganization of a sports society is hundred rupees (Rs. 100/-)
d) Annual fee for new registration of a sport club is five thousand rupees (Rs. 5,000/-)
II. According to the Section 29 of the Charter, a sports society which the registration was cancelled can
submit an appeal regarding that to the Minister in-charge within a period of month.
III. The recommedation shall be provided to the Minister within a period of month after inquiring those appeals
by the Provincial Sports Board.
15) i. All the sports societies shall come under the supervision of the Sport Director of Uva Provincial Council
and each and every sports society is bounded to provide whatever information regarding the sports society
when requested for.
ii. The Provincial Director of Uva Province or his any other authorized officer shall have the power to inspect
any time the records, accounts including any relevant documents of the sports society. He also have the
power to take copies of them.

<!-- page 5 -->

5AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
16) According to the Section 32 of the Charter
Annual accont of the scholorships for each and every sport or for more amount of sports shall be decided on the
agreement of the Minister.
The Sports Director has the power of selecting suitable candidates by an interview on a order of the Minister
The scholarship applicants shall submit the report of the Divisional Secretary on their income status via the
Grama Niladhari of the residing Division.
The applicant shall submit a medical report on physical fitness taken from a reputed government Medical Officer
and a report on income status along with the applicant.
The scholarship applicant shall submit the completed application indicated here in the Schedule III to the Sports
Director via the Sports Officer of the Division.
17) In this charter, unless the context otherwise requires
I. “the Minister” means the Minister in charge of sports of Uva Provincial Council
II. “the Secretary” means the Secretary in charge of sports of Uva Provincial Council.
III. “The Provincial Sports Director” means the Sports Director of the Department of Sports of Uva Provincial
Council.
IV . “Sport or Sports” means all the sports, games, entertainment events, physical trainings, physical development
and exercises accepted by the Secretary to the Ministry according to the regulations related to the Sports
Charter of Uva Province.
V . “Provincial Council” means Uva Provincial Council
VI. “Board of Trustees” means the Board of Trustees established for account controlling of Uva Provincial
Sports Fund.
VII. “Sports Soceity” means any society established for practicing any sport and uplifting the sports affairs
according to the regulations of the Sport Charter of Uva Province.
18) In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhala, Tamil and English texts of this Charter, the Sinhala text shall
prevails.

<!-- page 6 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;d ka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
6A
SCHEDULE  I
The Agreement shall be signed when travel abroad on the Aids/allowances provided
by Uva Provincial  Sports Fund
The agreement signed on this date of ...................................of.................................................. 20..............................
by in the address of ..........................................................................to one party and .................................................(name), the
Ditector of Sports of the Department of Sports of Uva Provincial Council to the other party.
As the allowance receiver has agreed to the following orders and conditions regarding the sum of
.................................................................. (in words) ....................................................(in number) donated by the sports fund
of Uva Provincial Council.
The agreement which has written and signed as follows :
1) All the acceptable documents shall be provided confirming the nature of the sport by those who expect to
leave abroad.
2) The relevant matters shall be confirmed by the recommendation of the principal if the player who expect to
leave abroad is a pupil and for others by the recommendation of the relevant institution/sports assoication/
sports society.
3) The money donated by the provincial sports fund shall only use for the relevant foreign tour by the allowance
receiver, if not, the total amount relevant to the allowance shall pay back to Uva Provincial sports fund within
a month from the date of leaving abroad.
4) Those who have gone abroad in proper way, shall provide the passport relevant to the tour to the Provincial
Sports Director of Uva after returning to the island.
Signed at Badulla on this ..........................of .................................20............................... by the said two parties related
to this document as the witness
Signed in the presence of below mentioned witness .......................................................who works for the Department
of Sports of Uva Provincial Council (Provincial Sports Director)
Signature

<!-- page 7 -->

7AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
Schedule I
Stamp
Witness
Signature
Name
Address
National Identity Card Number
The said allownace receiver is signed in the presence of below mentioned witness.
Signature of the allowance receiver
Witness
Signature
Name
Address
National Identity Card Number
SCHEDULE  II
Applicaton for Registration of a Sports Society
Provincial Director of Sports
Ministry of Sports
P
ART I
1. Name of the Sports Society
2. Correct address
3. Date of established
4. Membership number
5. Major Sport/Sports
6. Details of the office bearers

<!-- page 8 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;d ka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
8A
I. Name, address, telephone number, identity card number of the Deparment of registration of persons of the
honourable President
II. Name, address, telephone number, identity card number of the Deparment of registration of persons of the
honourable Secretary
III. Name, address, telephone number, identity card number of the Deparment of registration of persons of the
honourable Treasurer
7. List of name of the persons and government officers presented at the first general meeting
Name and position                                  Signature
8. Following documents are herewith attached.
I. Four copies of the list of names of the members not less than twenty five who has participated in the
general meeting including their names, addresses, identity card numbers and signatures.
II. Four copies of the minute of general meeting with the certification of the president and the secretary.
III. Four copies of the signature list of the appointed offier bearers.
We kindly request to register the sports society and provide a number and a certificate, Also we do hereby agree to
work according to the provisions/orders of the Provincial Sports Department enact time to time.
............................ ......................................
Honourable President Honourable Secretary.
Date :................................
PART II
01) Recommendation of Grama Niladhari
Registration of the Sports Society is recommended/not recommended if not recommended, indicate the reason.
Signature of the Name Date of Official
Grama Niladhari Stamp
02) Recommendation of the Sports Officer
As the information in part on is true, and this sports society participate in annual sports competitions, the
registration is recommended
Reasons for not recommending
Signature of the sports officer
Date and  official stamp
03) Recommendation of the Divisional Secretary
Recommended/not recommended
if not recommended, indicate the reason
Signature of the Divisional Secretary
Date of Official stamp

<!-- page 9 -->

9AIV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;dka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
04) Recommendation of the district sports officer
Recommended/not recommended
if not recommended, indicate the reason
P
ART III
Registration is approved/rejected
Signature of the Director of Sports
Date and Official stamp
Number of registration.
SCHEDULE   III
Application for obtaining scholarship from the account of Provincial Sports Fund
1. Full name :
2. Permanent address :
(The certificate shall be attached including the recommendation of the Grama Niladari of the residing Division
with the signature of the Divisional Secretary)
3. Name, address and registration number of the sports society bearing the membership
Name :
Address
Registration number
4. Divisional Secretary Division
5. Name of the playing game
6. If, had participated for foreign sports games, indicate the event, countary held, date, month and year
7. Participated event
8. Name of the game participated
(examples - common wealth games, world championships)
9. Received place (please attach a photocopy of the letter received from the relevant conference)
10. Details of the events that you have participated in National Sports Festival (details like year, level of the game,
event, and place of achievment)
11. Details of the special services done for the well being of the sports of Uva Provincial Council.
I do hereby declare that all the information furnished by me is true.
Date                                                                Signature

<!-- page 10 -->

IV (w) jeks fldgi  —  Y%S ,xld m%cd;d ka;s%l iudcjd§ ckrcfha w;s úfYI .eiÜ m;%h - 2017'05'26
PART IV(A) — GAZETTE   EXTRAORDINARY   OF   THE   DEMOCRATIC   SOCIALIST   REPUBLIC   OF   SRI   LANKA - 26.05.2017
10A
For office use only
12. Recommendation of the Sport Officer
information provided by the player in correct
Paying at scholarship is recommended/not recommended
Date Signature
Name
Division
13. Recommendation of the District Sports Officer
Name
Signature
14. Recommendation of the Provincial Sports Director
Name
Signature
06-413
PRINTED A T THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING , SRI LANKA.